<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Ruth Golding</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Man who Would Manage</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Jerome K. Jerome</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">It has been told me by those in a position to know – and I can believe it – that at nineteen months of age he wept because his grandmother would not allow him to feed her with a spoon,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and that at three and a half he was fished,</span>
   <span id="f000009">in an exhausted condition,</span>
   <span id="f000010">out of the water-butt,</span>
   <span id="f000011">whither he had climbed for the purpose of teaching a frog to swim.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">Two years later he permanently injured his left eye,</span>
   <span id="f000013">showing the cat how to carry kittens without hurting them,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and about the same period was dangerously stung by a bee while conveying it from a flower where,</span>
   <span id="f000015">as it seemed to him,</span>
   <span id="f000016">it was only wasting its time,</span>
   <span id="f000017">to one more rich in honey- making properties.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">His desire was always to help others.</span>
   <span id="f000019">He would spend whole mornings explaining to elderly hens how to hatch eggs,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and would give up an afternoon’s black-berrying to sit at home and crack nuts for his pet squirrel.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Before he was seven he would argue with his mother upon the management of children,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and reprove his father for the way he was bringing him up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">As a child nothing could afford him greater delight than “minding” other children,</span>
   <span id="f000024">or them less.</span>
   <span id="f000025">He would take upon himself this harassing duty entirely of his own accord,</span>
   <span id="f000026">without hope of reward or gratitude.</span>
   <span id="f000027">It was immaterial to him whether the other children were older than himself or younger,</span>
   <span id="f000028">stronger or weaker,</span>
   <span id="f000029">whenever and wherever he found them he set to work to “mind” them.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000031">during a school treat,</span>
   <span id="f000032">piteous cries were heard coming from a distant part of the wood,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and upon search being made,</span>
   <span id="f000034">he was discovered prone upon the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000035">with a cousin of his,</span>
   <span id="f000036">a boy twice his own weight,</span>
   <span id="f000037">sitting upon him and steadily whacking him.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Having rescued him,</span>
   <span id="f000039">the teacher said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“Why don’t you keep with the little boys?</span>
   <span id="f000041">What are you doing along with him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“Please,</span>
   <span id="f000043">sir,” was the answer,</span>
   <span id="f000044">“I was minding him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">He would have “minded” Noah if he had got hold of him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">He was a good-natured lad,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and at school he was always willing for the whole class to copy from his slate – indeed he would urge them to do so.</span>
   <span id="f000048">He meant it kindly,</span>
   <span id="f000049">but inasmuch as his answers were invariably quite wrong – with a distinctive and inimitable wrongness peculiar to himself – the result to his followers was eminently unsatisfactory;</span>
   <span id="f000050">and with the shallowness of youth that,</span>
   <span id="f000051">ignoring motives,</span>
   <span id="f000052">judges solely from results,</span>
   <span id="f000053">they would wait for him outside and punch him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">All his energies went to the instruction of others,</span>
   <span id="f000055">leaving none for his own purposes.</span>
   <span id="f000056">He would take callow youths to his chambers and teach them to box.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000058">try and hit me on the nose,” he would say,</span>
   <span id="f000059">standing before them in an attitude of defence.</span>
   <span id="f000060">“Don’t be afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Hit as hard as ever you can.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">And they would do it.</span>
   <span id="f000063">And so soon as he had recovered from his surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and a little lessened the bleeding,</span>
   <span id="f000065">he would explain to them how they had done it all wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and how easily he could have stopped the blow if they had only hit him properly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">Twice at golf he lamed himself for over a week,</span>
   <span id="f000068">showing a novice how to “drive”;</span>
   <span id="f000069">and at cricket on one occasion I remember seeing his middle stump go down like a ninepin just as he was explaining to the bowler how to get the balls in straight.</span>
   <span id="f000070">After which he had a long argument with the umpire as to whether he was in or out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">He has been known,</span>
   <span id="f000072">during a stormy Channel passage,</span>
   <span id="f000073">to rush excitedly upon the bridge in order to inform the captain that he had “just seen a light about two miles away to the left”;</span>
   <span id="f000074">and if he is on the top of an omnibus he generally sits beside the driver,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and points out to him the various obstacles likely to impede their progress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">It was upon an omnibus that my own personal acquaintanceship with him began.</span>
   <span id="f000077">I was sitting behind two ladies when the conductor came up to collect fares.</span>
   <span id="f000078">One of them handed him a sixpence telling him to take to Piccadilly Circus,</span>
   <span id="f000079">which was twopence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“No,” said the other lady to her friend,</span>
   <span id="f000081">handing the man a shilling,</span>
   <span id="f000082">“I owe you sixpence,</span>
   <span id="f000083">you give me fourpence and I’ll pay for the two.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">The conductor took the shilling,</span>
   <span id="f000085">punched two twopenny tickets,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and then stood trying to think it out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">“That’s right,” said the lady who had spoken last,</span>
   <span id="f000088">“give my friend fourpence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">The conductor did so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“Now you give that fourpence to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">The friend handed it to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“And you,” she concluded to the conductor,</span>
   <span id="f000093">“give me eightpence,</span>
   <span id="f000094">then we shall be all right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">The conductor doled out to her the eightpence – the sixpence he had taken from the first lady,</span>
   <span id="f000096">with a penny and two halfpennies out of his own bag – distrustfully,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and retired,</span>
   <span id="f000098">muttering something about his duties not including those of a lightning calculator.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“Now,” said the elder lady to the younger,</span>
   <span id="f000100">“I owe you a shilling.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">I deemed the incident closed,</span>
   <span id="f000102">when suddenly a florid gentleman on the opposite seat called out in stentorian tones:</span>
   <span id="f000103">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“Hi,</span>
   <span id="f000105">conductor!</span>
   <span id="f000106">you’ve cheated these ladies out of fourpence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“’Oo’s cheated ’oo out ’o fourpence?” replied the indignant conductor from the top of the steps,</span>
   <span id="f000108">“it was a twopenny fare.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“Two twopences don’t make eightpence,” retorted the florid gentleman hotly.</span>
   <span id="f000110">“How much did you give the fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000111">my dear?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000112">addressing the first of the young ladies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“I gave him sixpence,” replied the lady,</span>
   <span id="f000114">examining her purse.</span>
   <span id="f000115">“And then I gave you fourpence,</span>
   <span id="f000116">you know,” she added,</span>
   <span id="f000117">addressing her companion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">“That’s a dear two pen’oth,” chimed in a common-looking man on the seat behind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000120">that’s impossible,</span>
   <span id="f000121">dear,” returned the other,</span>
   <span id="f000122">“because I owed you sixpence to begin with.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“But I did,” persisted the first lady.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“You gave me a shilling,” said the conductor,</span>
   <span id="f000125">who had returned,</span>
   <span id="f000126">pointing an accusing forefinger at the elder of the ladies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">The elder lady nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“And I gave you sixpence and two pennies,</span>
   <span id="f000129">didn’t I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">The lady admitted it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“An’ I give ’er” – he pointed towards the younger lady – “fourpence,</span>
   <span id="f000132">didn’t I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Which I gave you,</span>
   <span id="f000134">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000135">dear,” remarked the younger lady.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">“Blow me if it ain’t <em>me</em> as ’as been cheated out of the fourpence,” cried the conductor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“But,” said the florid gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000138">“the other lady gave you sixpence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“Which I give to ’er,” replied the conductor,</span>
   <span id="f000140">again pointing the finger of accusation at the elder lady.</span>
   <span id="f000141">“You can search my bag if yer like.</span>
   <span id="f000142">I ain’t got a bloomin’ sixpence on me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">By this time everybody had forgotten what they had done,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and contradicted themselves and one another.</span>
   <span id="f000145">The florid man took it upon himself to put everybody right,</span>
   <span id="f000146">with the result that before Piccadilly Circus was reached three passengers had threatened to report the conductor for unbecoming language.</span>
   <span id="f000147">The conductor had called a policeman and had taken the names and addresses of the two ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000148">intending to sue them for the fourpence</span>
   <span id="f000149">(which they wanted to pay,</span>
   <span id="f000150">but which the florid man would not allow them to do);</span>
   <span id="f000151">the younger lady had become convinced that the elder lady had meant to cheat her,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and the elder lady was in tears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">The florid gentleman and myself continued to Charing Cross Station.</span>
   <span id="f000154">At the booking office window it transpired that we were bound for the same suburb,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and we journeyed down together.</span>
   <span id="f000156">He talked about the fourpence all the way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">At my gate we shook hands,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and he was good enough to express delight at the discovery that we were near neighbours.</span>
   <span id="f000159">What attracted him to myself I failed to understand,</span>
   <span id="f000160">for he had bored me considerably,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and I had,</span>
   <span id="f000162">to the best of my ability,</span>
   <span id="f000163">snubbed him.</span>
   <span id="f000164">Subsequently I learned that it was a peculiarity of his to be charmed with anyone who did not openly insult him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">Three days afterwards he burst into my study unannounced – he appeared to regard himself as my bosom friend – and asked me to forgive him for not having called sooner,</span>
   <span id="f000166">which I did.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“I met the postman as I was coming along,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000168">handing me a blue envelope,</span>
   <span id="f000169">“and he gave me this,</span>
   <span id="f000170">for you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">I saw it was an application for the water-rate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“We must make a stand against this,” he continued.</span>
   <span id="f000173">“That’s for water to the 29th September.</span>
   <span id="f000174">You’ve no right to pay it in June.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">I replied to the effect that water-rates had to be paid,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and that it seemed to me immaterial whether they were paid in June or September.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“That’s not it,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000178">“it’s the principle of the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Why should you pay for water you have never had?</span>
   <span id="f000180">What right have they to bully you into paying what you don’t owe?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">He was a fluent talker,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and I was ass enough to listen to him.</span>
   <span id="f000183">By the end of half an hour he had persuaded me that the question was bound up with the inalienable rights of man,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and that if I paid that fourteen and tenpence in June instead of in September,</span>
   <span id="f000185">I should be unworthy of the privileges my forefathers had fought and died to bestow upon me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">He told me the company had not a leg to stand upon,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and at his instigation I sat down and wrote an insulting letter to the chairman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">The secretary replied that,</span>
   <span id="f000189">having regard to the attitude I had taken up,</span>
   <span id="f000190">it would be incumbent upon themselves to treat it as a test case,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and presumed that my solicitors would accept service on my behalf.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">When I showed him this letter he was delighted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“You leave it to me,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000194">pocketing the correspondence,</span>
   <span id="f000195">“and we’ll teach them a lesson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">I left it to him.</span>
   <span id="f000197">My only excuse is that at the time I was immersed in the writing of what in those days was termed a comedy-drama.</span>
   <span id="f000198">The little sense I possessed must,</span>
   <span id="f000199">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000200">have been absorbed by the play.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">The magistrate’s decision somewhat damped my ardour,</span>
   <span id="f000202">but only inflamed his zeal.</span>
   <span id="f000203">Magistrates,</span>
   <span id="f000204">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000205">were muddle-headed old fogies.</span>
   <span id="f000206">This was a matter for a judge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">The judge was a kindly old gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and said that bearing in mind the unsatisfactory wording of the sub-clause,</span>
   <span id="f000209">he did not think he could allow the company their costs,</span>
   <span id="f000210">so that,</span>
   <span id="f000211">all told,</span>
   <span id="f000212">I got off for something under fifty pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000213">inclusive of the original fourteen and tenpence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">Afterwards our friendship waned,</span>
   <span id="f000215">but living as we did in the same outlying suburb,</span>
   <span id="f000216">I was bound to see a good deal of him;</span>
   <span id="f000217">and to hear more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">At parties of all kinds he was particularly prominent,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and on such occasions,</span>
   <span id="f000220">being in his most good-natured mood,</span>
   <span id="f000221">was most to be dreaded.</span>
   <span id="f000222">No human being worked harder for the enjoyment of others,</span>
   <span id="f000223">or produced more universal wretchedness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">One Christmas afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000225">calling upon a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000226">I found some fourteen or fifteen elderly ladies and gentlemen trotting solemnly round a row of chairs in the centre of the drawing-room while Poppleton played the piano.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Every now and then Poppleton would suddenly cease,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and everyone would drop wearily into the nearest chair,</span>
   <span id="f000229">evidently glad of a rest;</span>
   <span id="f000230">all but one,</span>
   <span id="f000231">who would thereupon creep quietly away,</span>
   <span id="f000232">followed by the envying looks of those left behind.</span>
   <span id="f000233">I stood by the door watching the weird scene.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Presently an escaped player came towards me,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and I enquired of him what the ceremony was supposed to signify.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“Don’t ask me,” he answered grumpily.</span>
   <span id="f000237">“Some of Poppleton’s damned tomfoolery.” Then he added savagely,</span>
   <span id="f000238">“We’ve got to play forfeits after this.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">The servant was still waiting a favourable opportunity to announce me.</span>
   <span id="f000240">I gave her a shilling not to,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and got away unperceived.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">After a satisfactory dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000243">he would suggest an impromptu dance,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and want you to roll up mats,</span>
   <span id="f000245">or help him move the piano to the other end of the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">He knew enough round games to have started a small purgatory of his own.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Just as you were in the middle of an interesting discussion,</span>
   <span id="f000248">or a delightful <em>tete-a-tete</em> with a pretty woman,</span>
   <span id="f000249">he would swoop down upon you with:</span>
   <span id="f000250">“Come along,</span>
   <span id="f000251">we’re going to play literary consequences,” and dragging you to the table,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and putting a piece of paper and a pencil before you,</span>
   <span id="f000253">would tell you to write a description of your favourite heroine in fiction,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and would see that you did it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">He never spared himself.</span>
   <span id="f000256">It was always he who would volunteer to escort the old ladies to the station,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and who would never leave them until he had seen them safely into the wrong train.</span>
   <span id="f000258">He it was who would play “wild beasts” with the children,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and frighten them into fits that would last all night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">So far as intention went,</span>
   <span id="f000261">he was the kindest man alive.</span>
   <span id="f000262">He never visited poor sick persons without taking with him in his pocket some little delicacy calculated to disagree with them and make them worse.</span>
   <span id="f000263">He arranged yachting excursions for bad sailors,</span>
   <span id="f000264">entirely at his own expense,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and seemed to regard their subsequent agonies as ingratitude.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">He loved to manage a wedding.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Once he planned matters so that the bride arrived at the altar three-quarters of an hour before the groom,</span>
   <span id="f000268">which led to unpleasantness upon a day that should have been filled only with joy,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and once he forgot the clergyman.</span>
   <span id="f000270">But he was always ready to admit when he made a mistake.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">At funerals,</span>
   <span id="f000272">also,</span>
   <span id="f000273">he was to the fore,</span>
   <span id="f000274">pointing out to the grief-stricken relatives how much better it was for all concerned that the corpse was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and expressing a pious hope that they would soon join it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">The chiefest delight of his life,</span>
   <span id="f000277">however,</span>
   <span id="f000278">was to be mixed up in other people’s domestic quarrels.</span>
   <span id="f000279">No domestic quarrel for miles round was complete without him.</span>
   <span id="f000280">He generally came in as mediator,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and finished as leading witness for the appellant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">As a journalist or politician his wonderful grasp of other people’s business would have won for him esteem.</span>
   <span id="f000283">The error he made was working it out in practice.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

