<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">The Tempest</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">There was a certain island in the sea,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">the only inhabitants of which were an old man,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">whose name was Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">and his daughter Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">a very beautiful young lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">She came to this island so young,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">that she had no memory of having seen any other human face than her father’s.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000009">They lived in a cave or cell,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">made out of a rock;</span> 
    <span id="f000011">it was divided into several apartments,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">one of which Prospero called his study;</span> 
    <span id="f000013">there he kept his books,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">which chiefly treated of magic,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">a study at that time much affected by all learned men:</span> 
    <span id="f000016">and the knowledge of this art he found very useful to him;</span> 
    <span id="f000017">for being thrown by a strange chance upon this island,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">which had been enchanted by a witch called Sycorax,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">who died there a short time before his arrival,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">by virtue of his art,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">released many good spirits that Sycorax had imprisoned in the bodies of large trees,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">because they had refused to execute her wicked commands.</span> 
    <span id="f000024">These gentle spirits were ever after obedient to the will of Prospero.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">Of these Ariel was the chief.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">The lively little sprite Ariel had nothing mischievous in his nature,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">except that he took rather too much pleasure in tormenting an ugly monster called Caliban,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">for he owed him a grudge because he was the son of his old enemy Sycorax.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">This Caliban,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">Prospero found in the woods,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">a strange misshapen thing,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">far less human in form than an ape:</span> 
    <span id="f000033">he took him home to his cell,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">and taught him to speak;</span> 
    <span id="f000035">and Prospero would have been very kind to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">but the bad nature which Caliban inherited from his mother Sycorax,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">would not let him learn anything good or useful:</span> 
    <span id="f000038">therefore he was employed like a slave,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">to fetch wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">and do the most laborious offices;</span> 
    <span id="f000041">and Ariel had the charge of compelling him to these services.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000042">When Caliban was lazy and neglected his work,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">Ariel (who was invisible to all eyes but Prospero’s) would come slily and pinch him,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">and sometimes tumble him down in the mire;</span> 
    <span id="f000045">and then Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">in the likeness of an ape,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">would make mouths at him.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">Then swiftly changing his shape,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">in the likeness of a hedgehog,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">he would lie tumbling in Caliban’s way,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">who feared the hedgehog’s sharp quills would prick his bare feet.</span> 
    <span id="f000052">With a variety of suchlike vexatious tricks Ariel would often torment him,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">whenever Caliban neglected the work which Prospero commanded him to do.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000054">Having these powerful spirits obedient to his will,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">Prospero could by their means command the winds,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">and the waves of the sea.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">By his orders they raised a violent storm,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">in the midst of which,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">and struggling with the wild sea-waves that every moment threatened to swallow it up,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">he showed his daughter a fine large ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">which he told her was full of living beings like themselves.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">«O my dear father,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">«if by your art you have raised this dreadful storm,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">have pity on their sad distress.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">See!</span> 
    <span id="f000066">the vessel will be dashed to pieces.</span> 
    <span id="f000067">Poor souls!</span> 
    <span id="f000068">they will all perish.</span> 
    <span id="f000069">If I had power,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">I would sink the sea beneath the earth,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">rather than the good ship should be destroyed,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">with all the precious souls within her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000073">«Be not so amazed,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">daughter Miranda,» said Prospero;</span> 
    <span id="f000075">«there is no harm done.</span> 
    <span id="f000076">I have so ordered it,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">that no person in the ship shall receive any hurt.</span> 
    <span id="f000078">What I have done has been in care of you,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">my dear child.</span> 
    <span id="f000080">You are ignorant who you are,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">or where you came from,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">and you know no more of me,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">but that I am your father,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">and live in this poor cave.</span> 
    <span id="f000085">Can you remember a time before you came to this cell?</span> 
    <span id="f000086">I think you cannot for you were not then three years of age.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000087">«Certainly I can,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">sir,» replied Miranda.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000089">«By what?» asked Prospero;</span> 
    <span id="f000090">«by any other house or person?</span> 
    <span id="f000091">Tell me what you can remember,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">my child.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000093">Miranda said:</span> 
    <span id="f000094">«It seems to me like the recollection of a dream.</span> 
    <span id="f000095">But had I not once four or five women who attended upon me?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000096">Prospero answered:</span> 
    <span id="f000097">«You had,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">and more.</span> 
    <span id="f000099">How is it that this still lives in your mind?</span> 
    <span id="f000100">Do you remember how you came here?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000101">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">sir,» said Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">«I remember nothing more.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000104">«Twelve years ago,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">Miranda,» continued Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">«I was duke of Milan,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">and you were a princess,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">and my only heir.</span> 
    <span id="f000109">I had a younger brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">whose name was Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">to whom I trusted everything:</span> 
    <span id="f000112">and as I was fond of retirement and deep study,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">I commonly left the management of my state affairs to your uncle,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">my false brother (for so indeed he proved).</span> 
    <span id="f000115">I,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">neglecting all worldly ends,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">buried among my books,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">did dedicate my whole time to the bettering of my mind.</span> 
    <span id="f000119">My brother Antonio being thus in possession of my power,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">began to think himself the duke indeed.</span> 
    <span id="f000121">The opportunity I gave him of making himself popular among my subjects awakened in his bad nature a proud ambition to deprive me of my dukedom:</span> 
    <span id="f000122">this he soon effected with the aid of the king of Naples,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">a powerful prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">who was my enemy.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000125">«Wherefore,» said Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">«did they not that hour destroy us?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000127">«My child,» answered her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">«they durst not,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">so dear was the love that my people bore me.</span> 
    <span id="f000130">Antonio carried us on board a ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">and when we were some leagues out at sea,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">he forced us into a small boat,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">without either tackle,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">sail,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">or mast:</span> 
    <span id="f000136">there he left us,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">as he thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">to perish.</span> 
    <span id="f000139">But a kind lord of my court,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">one Gonzalo,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">who loved me,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">had privately placed in the boat,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">water,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">provisions,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">apparel,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">and some books which I prize above my dukedom.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000147">«O my father,» said Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">«what a trouble must I have been to you then!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000149">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">my love,» said Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">«you were a little cherub that did preserve me.</span> 
    <span id="f000152">Your innocent smiles made me bear up against my misfortunes.</span> 
    <span id="f000153">Our food lasted till we landed on this desert island,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">since when my chief delight has been in teaching you,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">and well have you profited by my instructions.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000157">«Heaven thank you,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">my dear father,» said Miranda «Now pray tell me,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">your reason for raising this sea-storm?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000161">«Know then,» said her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">«that by means of this storm,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">my enemies,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">the king of Naples,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">and my cruel brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">are cast ashore upon this island.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000167">Having so said,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">Prospero gently touched his daughter with his magic wand,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">and she fell fast asleep;</span> 
    <span id="f000170">for the spirit Ariel just then presented himself before his master,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">to give an account of the tempest,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">and how he had disposed of the ship’s company,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">and though the spirits were always invisible to Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">Prospero did not choose she should hear him holding converse (as would seem to her) with the empty air.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000175">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">my brave spirit,» said Prospero to Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">«how have you performed your task?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">Ariel gave a lively description of the storm,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">and of the terrors of the mariners;</span> 
    <span id="f000180">and how the king’s son,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">was the first who leaped into the sea;</span> 
    <span id="f000183">and his father thought he saw his dear son swallowed up by the waves and lost.</span> 
    <span id="f000184">«But he is safe,» said Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">«in a corner of the isle,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">sitting with his arms folded,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">sadly lamenting the loss of the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">his father,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">whom he concludes drowned.</span> 
    <span id="f000190">Not a hair of his head is injured,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">and his princely garments,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">though drenched in the sea-waves,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">look fresher than before.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000194">«That’s my delicate Ariel,» said Prospero.</span> 
    <span id="f000195">«Bring him hither:</span> 
    <span id="f000196">my daughter must see this young prince.</span> 
    <span id="f000197">Where is the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">and my brother?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000199">«I left them,» answered Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">«searching for Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">whom they have little hopes of finding,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">thinking they saw him perish.</span> 
    <span id="f000203">Of the ship’s crew not one is missing;</span> 
    <span id="f000204">though each one thinks himself the only one saved:</span> 
    <span id="f000205">and the ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">though invisible to them,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">is safe in the harbour.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000208">«Ariel,» said Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">«thy charge is faithfully performed:</span> 
    <span id="f000210">but there is more work yet.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000211">«Is there more work?» said Ariel.</span> 
    <span id="f000212">«Let me remind you,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">master,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">you have promised me my liberty.</span> 
    <span id="f000215">I pray,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">remember,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">I have done you worthy service,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">told you no lies,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">made no mistakes,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">served you without grudge or grumbling.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000221">«How now!» said Prospero.</span> 
    <span id="f000222">«You do not recollect what a torment I freed you from.</span> 
    <span id="f000223">Have you forgot the wicked witch Sycorax,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">who with age and envy was almost bent double?</span> 
    <span id="f000225">Where was she born?</span> 
    <span id="f000226">Speak;</span> 
    <span id="f000227">tell me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000228">«Sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">in Algiers,» said Ariel.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000230">«O was she so?» said Prospero.</span> 
    <span id="f000231">«I must recount what you have been,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">which I find you do not remember.</span> 
    <span id="f000233">This bad witch,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">Sycorax,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">for her witchcrafts,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">too terrible to enter human hearing,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">was banished from Algiers,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">and here left by the sailors;</span> 
    <span id="f000239">and because you were a spirit too delicate to execute her wicked commands,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">she shut you up in a tree,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">where I found you howling.</span> 
    <span id="f000242">This torment,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">remember,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">I did free you from.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000245">«Pardon me,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">dear master,» said Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">ashamed to seem ungrateful;</span> 
    <span id="f000248">«I will obey your commands.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000249">«Do so,» said Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">«and I will set you free.» He then gave orders what further he would have him do;</span> 
    <span id="f000251">and away went Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">first to where he had left Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">and found him still sitting on the grass in the same melancholy posture.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000254">«O my young gentleman,» said Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">when he saw him,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">«I will soon move you.</span> 
    <span id="f000257">You must be brought,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">I find,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">for the Lady Miranda to have a sight of your pretty person.</span> 
    <span id="f000260">Come,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">follow me.» He then began singing:</span></p> 
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000263">Full fathom five thy father lies.</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000264">Of his bones are coral made;</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000265">Those are pearls that were his eyes:</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000266">Nothing of him that doth fade,</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000267">But doth suffer a sea-change</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000268">Into something rich and strange.</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000269">Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell:</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000270">Hark! now I hear them, — Ding-dong, bell.</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000271">This strange news of his lost father soon roused the prince from the stupid fit into which he had fallen.</span> 
    <span id="f000272">He followed in amazement the sound of Ariel’s voice,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">till it led him to Prospero and Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">who were sitting under the shade of a large tree.</span> 
    <span id="f000275">Now Miranda had never seen a man before,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">except her own father.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000277">«Miranda,» said Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">«tell me what you are looking at yonder.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000279">«O father,» said Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">in a strange surprise,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">«surely that is a spirit.</span> 
    <span id="f000282">Lord!</span> 
    <span id="f000283">how it looks about!</span> 
    <span id="f000284">Believe me,</span> 
    <span id="f000285">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">it is a beautiful creature.</span> 
    <span id="f000287">Is it not a spirit?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000288">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">girl,» answered her father;</span> 
    <span id="f000290">«it eats,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">and sleeps,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">and has senses such as we have.</span> 
    <span id="f000293">This young man you see was in the ship.</span> 
    <span id="f000294">He is somewhat altered by grief,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">or you might call him a handsome person.</span> 
    <span id="f000296">He has lost his companions,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">and is wandering about to find them.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000298">Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">who thought all men had grave faces and grey beards like her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">was delighted with the appearance of this beautiful young prince;</span> 
    <span id="f000301">and Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">seeing such a lovely lady in this desert place,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">and from the strange sounds he had heard,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">expecting nothing but wonders,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">thought he was upon an enchanted island,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">and that Miranda was the goddess of the place,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">and as such he began to address her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000308">She timidly answered,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">she was no goddess,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">but a simple maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">and was going to give him an account of herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000312">when Prospero interrupted her.</span> 
    <span id="f000313">He was well pleased to find they admired each other,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">for he plainly perceived they had (as we say) fallen in love at first sight:</span> 
    <span id="f000315">but to try Ferdinand’s constancy,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">he resolved to throw some difficulties in their way:</span> 
    <span id="f000317">therefore advancing forward,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">he addressed the prince with a stern air,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">telling him,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">he came to the island as a spy,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">to take it from him who was the lord of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000322">«Follow me,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">«I will tie you neck and feet together.</span> 
    <span id="f000324">You shall drink sea-water;</span> 
    <span id="f000325">shell-lush,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">withered roots,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">and husks of acorns shall be your food.» «No,» said Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000328">«I will resist such entertainment,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">till I see a more powerful enemy,» and drew his sword;</span> 
    <span id="f000330">but Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">waving his magic wand,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">fixed him to the spot where he stood,</span> 
    <span id="f000333">so that he had no power to move.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000334">Miranda hung upon her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000335">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000336">«Why are you so ungentle?</span> 
    <span id="f000337">Have pity,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">sir;</span> 
    <span id="f000339">I will be his surety.</span> 
    <span id="f000340">This is the second man I ever saw,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">and to me he seems a true one.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000342">«Silence,» said the father:</span> 
    <span id="f000343">«one word more will make me chide you,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">girl!</span> 
    <span id="f000345">What!</span> 
    <span id="f000346">an advocate for an impostor!</span> 
    <span id="f000347">You think there are no more such fine men,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">having seen only him and Caliban.</span> 
    <span id="f000349">I tell you,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">foolish girl,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">most men as far excel this,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">as he does Caliban.» This he said to prove his daughter’s constancy;</span> 
    <span id="f000353">and she replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000354">«My affections are most humble.</span> 
    <span id="f000355">I have no wish to see a goodlier man.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000356">«Come on,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">young man,» said Prospero to the prince;</span> 
    <span id="f000358">«you have no power to disobey me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000359">«I have not indeed,» answered Ferdinand;</span> 
    <span id="f000360">and not knowing that it was by magic he was deprived of all power of resistance,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">he was astonished to kind himself so strangely compelled to follow Prospero:</span> 
    <span id="f000362">looking back on Miranda as long as he could see her,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">as he went after Prospero into the cave:</span> 
    <span id="f000365">«My spirits are all bound up as if I were in a dream;</span> 
    <span id="f000366">but this man’s threats,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">and the weakness which I feel,</span> 
    <span id="f000368">would seem light to me if from my prison I might once a day behold this fair maid.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000369">Prospero kept Ferdinand not long confined within the cell:</span> 
    <span id="f000370">he soon brought out his prisoner,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">and set him a severe task to perform,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">taking care to let his daughter know the hard labour he had imposed on him,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">and then pretending to go into his study,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">he secretly watched them both.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000375">Prospero had commanded Ferdinand to pile up some heavy logs of wood.</span> 
    <span id="f000376">Kings’ sons not being much used to laborious work,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">Miranda soon after found her lover almost dying with fatigue.</span> 
    <span id="f000378">«Alas!» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">«do not work so hard;</span> 
    <span id="f000380">my father is at his studies,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">he is safe for these three hours;</span> 
    <span id="f000382">pray rest yourself.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000383">«O my dear lady,» said Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000384">«I dare not.</span> 
    <span id="f000385">I must finish my task before I take my rest.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000386">«If you will sit down,» said Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">«I will carry your logs the while.» But this Ferdinand would by no means agree to.</span> 
    <span id="f000388">Instead of a help Miranda became a hindrance,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">for they began a long conversation,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">so that the business of log-carrying went on very slowly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000391">Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">who had enjoined Ferdinand this task merely as a trial of his love,</span> 
    <span id="f000393">was not at his books,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">as his daughter supposed,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">but was standing by them invisible,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">to overhear what they said.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000397">Ferdinand inquired her name,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">which she told,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">saying it was against her father’s express command she did so.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000400">Prospero only smiled at this first instance of his daughter’s disobedience,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">for having by his magic art caused his daughter to fall in love so suddenly,</span> 
    <span id="f000402">he was not angry that she showed her love by forgetting to obey his commands.</span> 
    <span id="f000403">And he listened well pleased to a long speech of Ferdinand’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">in which he professed to love her above all the ladies he ever saw.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000405">In answer to his praises of her beauty,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">which he said exceeded all the women in the world,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">she replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000408">«I do not remember the face of any woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">nor have I seen any more men than you,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">my good friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">and my dear father.</span> 
    <span id="f000412">How features are abroad,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">I know not:</span> 
    <span id="f000414">but,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">believe me,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000417">I would not wish any companion in the world but you,</span> 
    <span id="f000418">nor can my imagination form any shape but yours that I could like.</span> 
    <span id="f000419">But,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">I fear I talk to you too freely,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">and my father’s precepts I forget.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000423">At this Prospero smiled,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">and nodded his head,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">as much as to say:</span> 
    <span id="f000426">«This goes on exactly as I could wish;</span> 
    <span id="f000427">my girl will be queen of Naples.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000428">And then Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">in another fine long speech (for young princes speak in courtly phrases),</span> 
    <span id="f000430">told the innocent Miranda he was heir to the crown of Naples,</span> 
    <span id="f000431">and that she should be his queen.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000432">«Ah!</span> 
    <span id="f000433">sir,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">«I am a fool to weep at what I am glad of.</span> 
    <span id="f000435">I will answer you in plain and holy innocence.</span> 
    <span id="f000436">I am your wife if you will marry me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000437">Prospero prevented Ferdinand’s thanks by appearing visible before them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000438">«Fear nothing,</span> 
    <span id="f000439">my child,» said he;</span> 
    <span id="f000440">«I have overheard,</span> 
    <span id="f000441">and approve of all you have said.</span> 
    <span id="f000442">And,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000444">if I have too severely used you,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">I will make you rich amends,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">by giving you my daughter.</span> 
    <span id="f000447">All your vexations were but trials of your love,</span> 
    <span id="f000448">and you have nobly stood the test.</span> 
    <span id="f000449">Then as my gift,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">which your true love has worthily purchased,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">take my daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">and do not smile that I boast she is above all praise.» He then,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">telling them that he had business which required his presence,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">desired they would sit down and talk together till he returned;</span> 
    <span id="f000455">and this command Miranda seemed not at all disposed to disobey.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000456">When Prospero left them,</span> 
    <span id="f000457">he called his spirit Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">who quickly appeared before him,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">eager to relate what he had done with Prospero’s brother and the king of Naples.</span> 
    <span id="f000460">Ariel said he had left them almost out of their senses with fear,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">at the strange things he had caused them to see and hear.</span> 
    <span id="f000462">When fatigued with wandering about,</span> 
    <span id="f000463">and famished for want of food,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">he had suddenly set before them a delicious banquet,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">and then,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">just as they were going to eat,</span> 
    <span id="f000467">he appeared visible before them in the shape of a harpy,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">a voracious monster with wings,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">and the feast vanished away.</span> 
    <span id="f000470">Then,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">to their utter amazement,</span> 
    <span id="f000472">this seeming harpy spoke to them,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">reminding them of their cruelty in driving Prospero from his dukedom,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">and leaving him and his infant daughter to perish in the sea;</span> 
    <span id="f000475">saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">that for this cause these terrors were suffered to afflict them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000477">The king of Naples,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">and Antonio the false brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">repented the injustice they had done to Prospero;</span> 
    <span id="f000480">and Ariel told his master he was certain their penitence was sincere,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">and that he,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">though a spirit,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">could not but pity them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000484">«Then bring them hither,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">Ariel,» said Prospero:</span> 
    <span id="f000486">«if you,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">who are but a spirit,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">feel for their distress,</span> 
    <span id="f000489">shall not I,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">who am a human being like themselves,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">have compassion on them?</span> 
    <span id="f000492">Bring them,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">quickly,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">my dainty Ariel.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000495">Ariel soon returned with the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">and old Gonzalo in their train,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">who had followed him,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">wondering at the wild music he played in the air to draw them on to his master’s presence.</span> 
    <span id="f000500">This Gonzalo was the same who had so kindly provided Prospero formerly with books and provisions,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">when his wicked brother left him,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">as he thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">to perish in an open boat in the sea.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000504">Grief and terror had so stupefied their senses,</span> 
    <span id="f000505">that they did not know Prospero.</span> 
    <span id="f000506">He first discovered himself to the good old Gonzalo,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">calling him the preserver of his life;</span> 
    <span id="f000508">and then his brother and the king knew that he was the injured Prospero.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000509">Antonio with tears,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">and sad words of sorrow and true repentance,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">implored his brother’s forgiveness,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">and the king expressed his sincere remorse for having assisted Antonio to depose his brother:</span> 
    <span id="f000513">and Prospero forgave them and,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">upon their engaging to restore his dukedom,</span> 
    <span id="f000515">he said to the king of Naples:</span> 
    <span id="f000516">«I have a gift in store for you too»;</span> 
    <span id="f000517">and opening a door,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">showed him his son Ferdinand playing at chess with Miranda.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000519">Nothing could exceed the joy of the father and the son at this unexpected meeting,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">for they each thought the other drowned in the storm.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000521">«O wonder!» said Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">«what noble creatures these are!</span> 
    <span id="f000523">It must surely be a brave world that has such people in it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000524">The king of Naples was almost as much astonished at the beauty and excellent graces of the young Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">as his son had been.</span> 
    <span id="f000526">«Who is this maid?» said he;</span> 
    <span id="f000527">«she seems the goddess that has parted us,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">and brought us thus together.» «No,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">sir,» answered Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">smiling to find his father had fallen into the same mistake that he had done when he first saw Miranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000531">«she is a mortal but by immortal Providence she is mine;</span> 
    <span id="f000532">I chose her when I could not ask you,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">my father,</span> 
    <span id="f000534">for your consent,</span> 
    <span id="f000535">not thinking you were alive.</span> 
    <span id="f000536">She is the daughter to this Prospero,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">who is the famous duke of Milan,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">of whose renown I have heard so much,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">but never saw him till now:</span> 
    <span id="f000540">of him I have received a new life:</span> 
    <span id="f000541">he has made himself to me a second father,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">giving me this dear lady.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000543">«Then I must be her father,» said the king;</span> 
    <span id="f000544">«but oh!</span> 
    <span id="f000545">how oddly will it sound,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">that I must ask my child forgiveness.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000547">«No more of that,» said Prospero:</span> 
    <span id="f000548">«let us not remember our troubles past,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">since they so happily have ended.» And then Prospero embraced his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">and again assured him of his forgiveness;</span> 
    <span id="f000551">and said that a wise overruling Providence had permitted that he should be driven from his poor dukedom of Milan,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">that his daughter might inherit the crown of Naples,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">for that by their meeting in this desert island,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">it had happened that the king’s son had loved Miranda.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000555">These kind words which Prospero spoke,</span> 
    <span id="f000556">meaning to comfort his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">so filled Antonio with shame and remorse,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">that he wept and was unable to speak;</span> 
    <span id="f000559">and the kind old Gonzalo wept to see this joyful reconciliation,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">and prayed for blessings on the young couple.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000561">Prospero now told them that their ship was safe in the harbour,</span> 
    <span id="f000562">and the sailors all on board her,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">and that he and his daughter would accompany them home the next morning.</span> 
    <span id="f000564">«In the meantime,» says he,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">«partake of such refreshments as my poor cave affords;</span> 
    <span id="f000566">and for your evening’s entertainment I will relate the history of my life from my first landing in this desert island.» He then called for Caliban to prepare some food,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">and set the cave in order;</span> 
    <span id="f000568">and the company were astonished at the uncouth form and savage appearance of this ugly monster,</span> 
    <span id="f000569">who (Prospero said) was the only attendant he had to wait upon him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000570">Before Prospero left the island,</span> 
    <span id="f000571">he dismissed Ariel from his service,</span> 
    <span id="f000572">to the great joy of that lively little spirit;</span> 
    <span id="f000573">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">though he had been a faithful servant to his master,</span> 
    <span id="f000575">was always longing to enjoy his free liberty,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">to wander uncontrolled in the air,</span> 
    <span id="f000577">like a wild bird,</span> 
    <span id="f000578">under green trees,</span> 
    <span id="f000579">among pleasant fruits,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">and sweet-smelling flowers.</span> 
    <span id="f000581">«My quaint Ariel,» said Prospero to the little sprite when he made him free,</span> 
    <span id="f000582">«I shall miss you;</span> 
    <span id="f000583">yet you shall have your freedom.» «Thank you,</span> 
    <span id="f000584">my dear master,» said Ariel;</span> 
    <span id="f000585">«but give me leave to attend your ship home with prosperous gales,</span> 
    <span id="f000586">before you bid farewell to the assistance of your faithful spirit;</span> 
    <span id="f000587">and then,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">master,</span> 
    <span id="f000589">when I am free,</span> 
    <span id="f000590">how merrily I shall live!» Here Ariel sung this pretty song:</span></p> 
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000591">Where the bee sucks there suck I;</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000592">In a cowslip’s bell I lie;</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000593">There I crouch when owls do cry.</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000594">On the bat’s back I do fly</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000595">After summer merrily.</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000596">Merrily, merrily shall I live now</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000597">Under the blossom that hangs on the bough.</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000598">Prospero then buried deep in the earth his magical books and wand,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">for he was resolved never more to make use of the magic art.</span> 
    <span id="f000600">And having thus overcome his enemies.</span> 
    <span id="f000601">and being reconciled to his brother and the king of Naples,</span> 
    <span id="f000602">nothing now remained to complete his happiness,</span> 
    <span id="f000603">but to revisit his native land,</span> 
    <span id="f000604">to take possession of his dukedom,</span> 
    <span id="f000605">and to witness the happy nuptials of his daughter and Prince Ferdinand,</span> 
    <span id="f000606">which the king said should be instantly celebrated with great splendour on their return to Naples.</span> 
    <span id="f000607">At which place,</span> 
    <span id="f000608">under the safe convoy of the spirit Ariel,</span> 
    <span id="f000609">they,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">after a pleasant voyage,</span> 
    <span id="f000611">soon arrived.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>