<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">A Midsummer Night’s Dream</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">There was a law in the city of Athens which gave to its citizens the power of compelling their daughters to marry whomsoever they pleased;</span> 
    <span id="f000003">for upon a daughter’s refusing to marry the man her father had chosen to be her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">the father was empowered by this law to cause her to be put to death;</span> 
    <span id="f000005">but as fathers do not often desire the death of their own daughters,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">even though they do happen to prove a little refractory,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">this law was seldom or never put in execution,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">though perhaps the young ladies of that city were not unfrequently threatened by their parents with the terrors of it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000009">There was one instance,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">however,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">of an old man,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">whose name was Egeus,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">who actually did come before Theseus (at that time the reigning duke of Athens),</span> 
    <span id="f000014">to complain that his daughter Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">whom he had commanded to marry Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">a young man of a noble Athenian family,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">refused to obey him,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">because she loved another young Athenian,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">named Lysander.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">Egeus demanded justice of Theseus,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">and desired that this cruel law might be put in force against his daughter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000022">Hermia pleaded in excuse for her disobedience,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">that Demetrius had formerly professed love for her dear friend Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">and that Helena loved Demetrius to distraction;</span> 
    <span id="f000025">but this honourable reason,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">which Hermia gave for not obeying her father’s command,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">moved not the stern Egeus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000028">Theseus,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">though a great and merciful prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">had no power to alter the laws of his country;</span> 
    <span id="f000031">therefore he could only give Hermia four days to consider of it:</span> 
    <span id="f000032">and at the end of that time,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">if she still refused to marry Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">she was to be put to death.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000035">When Hermia was dismissed from the presence of the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">she went to her lover Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">and told him the peril she was in,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">and that she must either give him up and marry Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">or lose her life in four days.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000040">Lysander was in great affliction at hearing these evil tidings;</span> 
    <span id="f000041">but recollecting that he had an aunt who lived at some distance from Athens,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and that at the place where she lived the cruel law could not be put in force against Hermia (this law not extending beyond the boundaries of the city),</span> 
    <span id="f000043">he proposed to Hermia that she should steal out of her father’s house that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">and go with him to his aunt’s house,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">where he would marry her.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">«I will meet you,» said Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">«in the wood a few miles without the city;</span> 
    <span id="f000048">in that delightful wood where we have so often walked with Helena in the pleasant month of May.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">To this proposal Hermia joyfully agreed;</span> 
    <span id="f000050">and she told no one of her intended flight but her friend Helena.</span> 
    <span id="f000051">Helena (as maidens will do foolish things for love) very ungenerously resolved to go and tell this to Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">though she could hope no benefit from betraying her friend’s secret,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">but the poor pleasure of following her faithless lover to the wood;</span> 
    <span id="f000054">for she well knew that Demetrius would go thither in pursuit of Hermia.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000055">The wood in which Lysander and Hermia proposed to meet was the favourite haunt of those little beings known by the name of Fairies.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000056">Oberon the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">and Titania the queen of the fairies,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">with all their tiny train of followers,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">in this wood held their midnight revels.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000060">Between this little king and queen of sprites there happened,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">at this time,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">a sad disagreement;</span> 
    <span id="f000063">they never met by moonlight in the shady walks of this pleasant wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">but they were quarrelling,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">till all their fairy elves would creep into acorn-cups and hide themselves for fear.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000066">The cause of this unhappy disagreement was Titania’s refusing to give Oberon a little changeling boy,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">whose mother had been Titania’s friend;</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and upon her death the fairy queen stole the child from its nurse,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">and brought him up in the woods.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">The night on which the lovers were to meet in this wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">as Titania was walking with some of her maids of honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">she met Oberon attended by his train of fairy courtiers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000073">«I’ll met by moonlight,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">proud Titania,» said the fairy king.</span> 
    <span id="f000075">The queen replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000076">«What,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">jealous Oberon,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">is it you?</span> 
    <span id="f000079">Fairies,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">skip hence;</span> 
    <span id="f000081">I have foresworn his company.» «Tarry,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">rash fairy,» said Oberon;</span> 
    <span id="f000083">«am not I thy lord?</span> 
    <span id="f000084">Why does Titania cross her Oberon?</span> 
    <span id="f000085">Give me your little changeling boy to be my page.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000086">«Set your heart at rest,» answered the queen;</span> 
    <span id="f000087">«your whole fairy kingdom buys not the boy of me.» She then left her lord in great anger.</span> 
    <span id="f000088">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">go your way,» said Oberon «before the morning dawns I will torment you for this injury.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000090">Oberon then sent for Puck,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">his chief favourite and privy counsellor.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000092">Puck (or as he was sometimes called,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">Robin Goodfellow) was a shrewd and knavish sprite,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">that used to play comical pranks in the neighbouring villages;</span> 
    <span id="f000095">sometimes getting into the dairies and skimming the milk,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">sometimes plunging his light and airy form into the butter-churn,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">and while he was dancing his fantastic shape in the churn,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">in vain the dairymaid would labour to change her cream into butter:</span> 
    <span id="f000099">nor had the village swains any better success;</span> 
    <span id="f000100">whenever Puck chose to play his freaks in the brewing copper,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">the ale was sure to be spoiled.</span> 
    <span id="f000102">When a few good neighbours were met to drink some comfortable ale together,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">Puck would jump into the bowl of ale in the likeness of a roasted crab,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">and when some old goody was going to drink he would bob against her lips,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">and spill the ale over her withered chin;</span> 
    <span id="f000106">and presently after,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">when the same old dame was gravely seating herself to tell her neighbours a sad and melancholy story,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">Puck would slip her three-legged stool from under her,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">and down toppled the poor old woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">and then the old gossips would hold their sides and laugh at her,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">and swear they never wasted a merrier hour.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000112">«Come hither,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">Puck,» said Oberon to this little merry wanderer of the night;</span> 
    <span id="f000114">«fetch me the flower which maids call Lore in Idleness;</span> 
    <span id="f000115">the juice of that little purple flower laid on the eyelids of those who sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">will make them,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">when they awake,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">dote on the first thing they see.</span> 
    <span id="f000119">Some of the juice of that flower I will drop on the eyelids of my Titania when she is asleep;</span> 
    <span id="f000120">and the first thing she looks upon when she opens her eyes she will fall in love with,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">even though it be a lion or a bear,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">a meddling monkey,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">or a busy ape;</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and before I will take this charm from off her sight,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">which I can do with another charm I know of,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">I will make her give me that boy to be my page.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000127">Puck,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">who loved mischief to his heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">was highly diverted with this intended frolic of his master,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">and ran to seek the flower;</span> 
    <span id="f000131">and while Oberon was waiting the return of Puck,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">he observed Demetrius and Helena enter the wood:</span> 
    <span id="f000133">he overheard Demetrius reproaching Helena for following him,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">and after many unkind words on his part,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">and gentle expostulations from Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">reminding him of his former love and professions of true faith to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">he left her (as he said) to the mercy of the wild beasts,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">and she ran after him as swiftly as she could.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">The fairy king,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">who was always friendly to true lovers,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">felt great compassion for Helena;</span> 
    <span id="f000142">and perhaps,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">as Lysander said they used to walk by moonlight in this pleasant wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">Oberon might have seen Helena in those happy times when she was beloved by Demetrius.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">However that might be,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">when Puck returned with the little purple flower,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">Oberon said to his favourite:</span> 
    <span id="f000148">«Take a part of this flower;</span> 
    <span id="f000149">there has been a sweet Athenian lady here,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">who is in love with a disdainful youth;</span> 
    <span id="f000151">if you find him sleeping,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">drop some of the love-juice in his eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">but contrive to do it when she is near him,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">that the first thing he sees when he awakes may be this despised lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000155">You will know the man by the Athenian garments which he wears.» Puck promised to manage this matter very dexterously:</span> 
    <span id="f000156">and then Oberon went,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">unperceived by Titania,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">to her bower,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">where she was reparing to go to rest.</span> 
    <span id="f000160">Her fairy bower was a bank,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">where grew wild thyme,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">cowslips,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">and sweet violets,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">under a canopy of wood-bine,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">musk-roses,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">and eglantine.</span> 
    <span id="f000167">There Titania always slept some part of the night;</span> 
    <span id="f000168">her coverlet the enamelled skin of a snake,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">which,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">though a small mantle,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">was wide enough to wrap a fairy in.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000172">He found Titania giving orders to her fairies,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">how they were to employ themselves while she slept.</span> 
    <span id="f000174">«Some of you,» said her majesty,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">«must kill cankers in the musk-rose buds,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">and some wage war with the bats for their leathern wings,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">to make my small elves coats;</span> 
    <span id="f000178">and some of you keep watch that the clamorous owl,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">that nightly hoots,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">come not near me:</span> 
    <span id="f000181">but first sing me to sleep.» Then they began to sing this song:</span></p> 
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000182">You spotted snakes with double tongue,</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000183">Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000184">Newts and blind-worms do no wrong</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000185">Come not near our Fairy Queen.</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000186">Philomel, with melody,</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000187">Sing in our sweet lullaby,</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000188">Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby;</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000189">Never harm, nor spell, nor charm,</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000190">Come our lovely lady nigh;</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000191">So good night with lullaby.</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000192">When the fairies had sung their queen asleep with this pretty lullaby,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">they left her to perform the important services she had enjoined them.</span> 
    <span id="f000194">Oberon then softly drew near his Titania,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">and dropped some of the love-juice on her eyelids,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">saying:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000197">«What thou seest when thou wake Do it for thy true-love take.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000198">But to return to Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">who made her escape out of her father’s house that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">to avoid the death she was doomed to for refusing to marry Demetrius.</span> 
    <span id="f000201">When she entered the wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">she found her dear Lysander waiting for her,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">to conduct her to his aunt’s house;</span> 
    <span id="f000204">but before they had passed half through the wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">Hermia was so much fatigued,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">that Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">who was very careful of this dear lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">who had proved her affection for him even by hazarding her life for his sake,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">persuaded her to rest till morning on a bank of soft moss,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">and lying down himself on the ground at some little distance,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">they soon fell fast asleep.</span> 
    <span id="f000212">Here they were found by Puck,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">seeing a handsome young man asleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">and perceiving that his clothes were made in the Athenian fashion,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">and that a pretty lady was sleeping near him,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">concluded that this must be the Athenian maid and her disdainful lover whom Oberon had sent him to seek;</span> 
    <span id="f000218">and he naturally enough conjectured that,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">as they were alone together,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">she must be the first thing he would see when he awoke;</span> 
    <span id="f000221">so,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">without more ado,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">he proceeded to pour some of the juice of the little purple flower into his eyes.</span> 
    <span id="f000224">But it so fell out,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">that Helena came that way,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">instead of Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">was the first object Lysander beheld when he opened his eyes;</span> 
    <span id="f000229">and strange to relate,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">so powerful was the love-charm,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">all his love for Hermia vanished away,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">and Lysander fell in love with Helena.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000233">Had he first seen Hermia when he awoke,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">the blunder Puck committed would have been of no consequence,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">for he could not love that faithful lady too well;</span> 
    <span id="f000236">but for poor Lysander to be forced by a fairy love-charm to forget his own true Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">and to run after another lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">and leave Hermia asleep quite alone in a wood at midnight,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">was a sad chance indeed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000240">Thus this misfortune happened.</span> 
    <span id="f000241">Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">as has been before related,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">endeavoured to keep pace with Demetrius when he ran away so rudely from her;</span> 
    <span id="f000244">but she could not continue this unequal race long,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">men being always better runners in a long race than ladies.</span> 
    <span id="f000246">Helena soon lost sight of Demetrius;</span> 
    <span id="f000247">and as she was wandering about,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">dejected and forlorn,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">she arrived at the place where Lysander was sleeping.</span> 
    <span id="f000250">«Ah!» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">«this is Lysander lying on the ground:</span> 
    <span id="f000252">is he dead or asleep?» Then,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">gently touching him,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000255">«Good sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">if you are alive,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">awake.» Upon this Lysander opened his eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">and (the love-charm beginning to work) immediately addressed her in terms of extravagant love and admiration;</span> 
    <span id="f000259">telling her she as much excelled Hermia in beauty as a dove does a raven,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">and that he would run through fire for her sweet sake;</span> 
    <span id="f000261">and many more such lover-like speeches.</span> 
    <span id="f000262">Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">knowing Lysander was her friend Hermia’s lover,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">and that he was solemnly engaged to marry her,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">was in the utmost rage when she heard herself addressed in this manner;</span> 
    <span id="f000266">for she thought (as well she might) that Lysander was making a jest of her.</span> 
    <span id="f000267">«Oh!» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">«why was I born to be mocked and scorned by every one?</span> 
    <span id="f000269">Is it not enough,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">is it not enough,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">young man,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">that I can never get a sweet look or a kind word from Demetrius;</span> 
    <span id="f000273">but you,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">must pretend in this disdainful manner to court me?</span> 
    <span id="f000276">I thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">you were a lord of more true gentleness.» Saying these words in great anger,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">she ran away;</span> 
    <span id="f000280">and Lysander followed her,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">quite forgetful of his own Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000282">who was still asleep.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000283">When Hermia awoke,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">she was in a sad fright at finding herself alone.</span> 
    <span id="f000285">She wandered about the wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">not knowing what was become of Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">or which way to go to seek for him.</span> 
    <span id="f000288">In the meantime Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">not being able to find Hermia and his rival Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">and fatigued with his fruitless search,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">was observed by Oberon fast asleep.</span> 
    <span id="f000292">Oberon had learnt by some questions he had asked of Puck,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">that he had applied the love-charm to the wrong person’s eyes;</span> 
    <span id="f000294">and now having found the person first intended,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">he touched the eyelids of the sleeping Demetrius with the love-juice,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">and he instantly awoke;</span> 
    <span id="f000297">and the first thing he saw being Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000298">he,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">as Lysander had done before,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">began to address love-speeches to her;</span> 
    <span id="f000301">and just at that moment Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">followed by Hermia (for through Puck’s unlucky mistake it was now become Hermia’s turn to run after her lover) made his appearance;</span> 
    <span id="f000303">and then Lysander and Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">both speaking together,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">made love to Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">they being each one under the influence of the same potent charm.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000307">The astonished Helena thought that Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">and her once dear friend Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">were all in a plot together to make a jest of her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000311">Hermia was as much surprised as Helena;</span> 
    <span id="f000312">she knew not why Lysander and Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">who both before loved her,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">were now become the lovers of Helena;</span> 
    <span id="f000315">and to Hermia the matter seemed to be no jest.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000316">The ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">who before had always been the dearest of friends,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">now fell to high words together.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000319">«Unkind Hermia,» said Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">«it is you have set Lysander on to vex me with mock praises;</span> 
    <span id="f000321">and your other lover Demetrius,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">who used almost to spurn me with his foot,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">have you not bid him call me Goddess,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">Nymph,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">rare,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">precious,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">and celestial?</span> 
    <span id="f000328">He would not speak thus to me,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">whom he hates,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">if you did not set him on to make a jest of me.</span> 
    <span id="f000331">Unkind Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">to join with men in scorning your poor friend.</span> 
    <span id="f000333">Have you forgot our school-day friendship?</span> 
    <span id="f000334">How often,</span> 
    <span id="f000335">Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">have we two,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">sitting on one cushion,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">both singing one song,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">with our needles working the same flower,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">both on the same sampler wrought;</span> 
    <span id="f000341">growing up together in fashion of a double cherry,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">scarcely seeming parted!</span> 
    <span id="f000343">Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">it is not friendly in you,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">it is not maidenly to join with men in scorning your poor friend.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000346">«I am amazed at your passionate words,» said Hermia:</span> 
    <span id="f000347">«I scorn you not;</span> 
    <span id="f000348">it seems you scorn me.» «Ay,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">do,» returned Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">«persevere,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">counterfeit serious looks,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">and make mouths at me when I turn my back;</span> 
    <span id="f000353">then wink at each other,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">and hold the sweet jest up.</span> 
    <span id="f000355">If you had any pity,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">grace,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">or manners,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">you would not use me thus.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000359">While Helena and Hermia were speaking these angry words to each other,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">Demetrius and Lysander left them,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">to fight together in the wood for the love of Helena.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000362">When they found the gentlemen had left them,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">they departed,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">and once more wandered weary in the wood in search of their lovers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000365">As soon as they were gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">the fairy king,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">who with little Puck had been listening to their quarrels,</span> 
    <span id="f000368">said to him:</span> 
    <span id="f000369">«This is your negligence,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">Puck;</span> 
    <span id="f000371">or did you do this wilfully?» «Believe me,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">king of shadows,» answered Puck,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">«it was a mistake;</span> 
    <span id="f000374">did not you tell me I should know the man by his Athenian garments?</span> 
    <span id="f000375">However,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">I am not sorry this has happened,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">for I think their jangling makes excellent sport.» «You heard,» said Oberon,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">«that Demetrius and Lysander are gone to seek a convenient place to fight in.</span> 
    <span id="f000379">I command you to overhang the night with a thick fog,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">and lead these quarrelsome lovers so astray in the dark,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">that they shall not be able to kind each other.</span> 
    <span id="f000382">Counterfeit each of their voices to the other,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">and with bitter taunts provoke them to follow you,</span> 
    <span id="f000384">while they think it is their rival’s tongue they hear.</span> 
    <span id="f000385">See you do this,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">till they are so weary they can go no farther;</span> 
    <span id="f000387">and when you find they are asleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000388">drop the juice of this other flower into Lysander’s eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">and when he awakes he will forget his new love for Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">and return to his old passion for Hermia;</span> 
    <span id="f000391">and then the two fair ladies may each one be happy with the man she loves,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">and they will think all that has passed a vexatious dream.</span> 
    <span id="f000393">About this quickly,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">Puck,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">and I will go and see what sweet love my Titania has found.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000396">Titania was still sleeping,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">and Oberon seeing a clown near her,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">who had lost his way in the wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">and was likewise asleep:</span> 
    <span id="f000400">«This fellow,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">«shall be my Titania’s true love»;</span> 
    <span id="f000402">and clapping an ass’s head over the clown’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">it seemed to fit him as well as if it had grown upon his own shoulders.</span> 
    <span id="f000404">Though Oberon fixed the ass’s head on very gently,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">it awakened him,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">and rising up,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">unconscious of what Oberon had done to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">he went towards the bower where the fairy queen slept.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000409">«Ah!</span> 
    <span id="f000410">what angel is that I see?» said Titania,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">opening her eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">and the juice of the little purple flower beginning to take effect:</span> 
    <span id="f000413">«are you as wise as you are beautiful?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000414">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">mistress,» said the foolish clown,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">«if I have wit enough to find the way out of this wood,</span> 
    <span id="f000417">I have enough to serve my turn.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000418">«Out of the wood do not desire to go,» said the enamoured queen.</span> 
    <span id="f000419">«I am a spirit of no common rate.</span> 
    <span id="f000420">I love you.</span> 
    <span id="f000421">Go with me,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">and I will give you fairies to attend upon you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000423">She then called four of her fairies:</span> 
    <span id="f000424">their names were,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">Pease-blossom,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">Cobweb,</span> 
    <span id="f000427">Moth,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">and Mustard-seed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000429">«Attend,» said the queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">«upon this sweet gentleman;</span> 
    <span id="f000431">hop in his walks,</span> 
    <span id="f000432">and gambol in his sight;</span> 
    <span id="f000433">feed him with grapes and apricots,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">and steal for him the honey-bags from the bees.</span> 
    <span id="f000435">Come,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">sit with me,» said she to the clown,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">«and let me play with your amiable hairy cheeks,</span> 
    <span id="f000438">my beautiful ass!</span> 
    <span id="f000439">and kiss your fair large ears,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">my gentle joy!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000441">«Where is Pease-blossom?» said the ass-headed clown,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">not much regarding the fairy queen’s courtship,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">but very proud of his new attendants.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000444">«Here,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">sir,» said little Pease-blossom.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000446">«Scratch my head,» said the clown.</span> 
    <span id="f000447">«Where is Cobweb?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000448">«Here,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">sir,» said Cobweb.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000450">«Good Mr.</span> 
    <span id="f000451">Cobweb,» said the foolish clown,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">«kill me the red humble bee on the top of that thistle yonder;</span> 
    <span id="f000453">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">good Mr.</span> 
    <span id="f000455">Cobweb,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">bring me the honey-bag.</span> 
    <span id="f000457">Do not fret yourself too much in the action,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">Mr.</span> 
    <span id="f000459">Cobweb,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">and take care the honey-bag break not;</span> 
    <span id="f000461">I should be sorry to have you overflown with a honey-bag.</span> 
    <span id="f000462">Where is Mustard-seed?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000463">«Here,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">sir,» said Mustard-seed:</span> 
    <span id="f000465">«what is your will?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000466">«Nothing,» said the clown,</span> 
    <span id="f000467">«good Mr.</span> 
    <span id="f000468">Mustard-seed,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">but to help Mr.</span> 
    <span id="f000470">Pease-blossom to scratch;</span> 
    <span id="f000471">I must go to a barber’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000472">Mr.</span> 
    <span id="f000473">Mustard-seed,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">for methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000475">«My sweet love,» said the queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">«what will you have to eat?</span> 
    <span id="f000477">I have a venturous fairy shall seek the squirrel’s hoard,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">and fetch you some new nuts.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000479">«I had rather have a handful of dried pease,» said the clown,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">who with his ass’s head had got an ass’s appetite.</span> 
    <span id="f000481">«But,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">I pray,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">let none of your people disturb me,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">for I have a mind to sleep.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000485">«Sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000486">then,» said the queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">«and I will wind you in my arms.</span> 
    <span id="f000488">O how I love you!</span> 
    <span id="f000489">how I dote upon you!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000490">When the fairy king saw the clown sleeping in the arms of his queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">he advanced within her sight,</span> 
    <span id="f000492">and reproached her with having lavished her favours upon an ass.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000493">This she could not deny,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">as the clown was then sleeping within her arms,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">with his ass’s head crowned by her with flowers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000496">When Oberon had teased her for some time,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">he again demanded the changeling boy;</span> 
    <span id="f000498">which she,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">ashamed of being discovered by her lord with her new favourite,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">did not dare to refuse him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000501">Oberon,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">having thus obtained the little boy he had so long wished for to be his page,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">took pity on the disgraceful situation into which,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">by his merry contrivance,</span> 
    <span id="f000505">he had brought his Titania and threw some of the juice of the other flower into her eyes;</span> 
    <span id="f000506">and the fairy queen immediately recovered her senses,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">and wondered at her late dotage,</span> 
    <span id="f000508">saying how she now loathed the sight of the strange monster.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000509">Oberon likewise took the ass’s head from off the clown,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">and left him to finish his nap with his own fool’s head upon his shoulders.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000511">Oberon and his Titania being now perfectly reconciled,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">he related to her the history of the lovers,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">and their midnight quarrels;</span> 
    <span id="f000514">and she agreed to go with him and see the end of their adventures.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000515">The fairy king and queen found the lovers and their fair ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">at no great distance from each other,</span> 
    <span id="f000517">sleeping on a grass-plot;</span> 
    <span id="f000518">for Puck,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">to make amends for his former mistake,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">had contrived with the utmost diligence to bring them all to the same spot,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">unknown to each other:</span> 
    <span id="f000522">and he had carefully removed the charm from off the eyes of Lysander with the antidote the fairy king gave to him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000523">Hermia first awoke,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">and finding her lost Lysander asleep so near her,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">was looking at him and wondering at his strange inconstancy.</span> 
    <span id="f000526">Lysander presently opening his eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">and seeing his dear Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">recovered his reason which the fairy charm had before clouded,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">and with his reason,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">his love for Hermia;</span> 
    <span id="f000531">and they began to talk over the adventures of the night,</span> 
    <span id="f000532">doubting if these things had really happened,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">or if they had both been dreaming the same bewildering dream.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000534">Helena and Demetrius were by this time awake;</span> 
    <span id="f000535">and a sweet sleep having quieted Helena’s disturbed and angry spirits,</span> 
    <span id="f000536">she listened with delight to the professions of love which Demetrius still made to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">and which,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">to her surprise as well as pleasure,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">she began to perceive were sincere.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000540">These fair night-wandering ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">now no longer rivals,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">became once more true friends;</span> 
    <span id="f000543">all the unkind words which had passed were forgiven,</span> 
    <span id="f000544">and they calmly consulted together what was best to be done in their present situation.</span> 
    <span id="f000545">It was soon agreed that,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">as Demetrius had given up his pretensions to Hermia,</span> 
    <span id="f000547">he should endeavour to prevail upon her father to revoke the cruel sentence of death which had been passed against her.</span> 
    <span id="f000548">Demetrius was preparing to return to Athens for this friendly purpose,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">when they were surprised with the sight of Egeus,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">Hermia’s father,</span> 
    <span id="f000551">who came to the wood in pursuit of his runaway daughter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000552">When Egeus understood that Demetrius would not now marry his daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">he no longer opposed her marriage with Lysander,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">but gave his consent that they should be wedded on the fourth day from that time,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">being the same day on which Hermia had been condemned to lose her life;</span> 
    <span id="f000556">and on that same day Helena joyfully agreed to marry her beloved and now faithful Demetrius.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000557">The fairy king and queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">who were invisible spectators of this reconciliation,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">and now saw the happy ending of the lovers’ history,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">brought about through the good offices of Oberon,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">received so much pleasure,</span> 
    <span id="f000562">that these kind spirits resolved to celebrate the approaching nuptials with sports and revels throughout their fairy kingdom.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000563">And now,</span> 
    <span id="f000564">if any are offended with this story of fairies and their pranks,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">as judging it incredible and strange,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">they have only to think that they have been asleep and dreaming,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">and that all these adventures were visions which they saw in their sleep:</span> 
    <span id="f000568">and I hope none of my readers will be so unreasonable as to be offended with a pretty harmless Midsummer Night’s Dream.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>