<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">The Winter’s Tale</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">king of Sicily,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">and his queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">the beautiful and virtuous Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">once lived in the greatest harmony together.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">So happy was Leontes in the love of this excellent lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">that he had no wish ungratified,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">except that he sometimes desired to see again,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and to present to his queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">his old companion and school-fellow,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">Polixenes,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">king of Bohemia.</span> 
    <span id="f000014">Leontes and Polixenes were brought up together from their infancy,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">but being,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">by the death of their fathers,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">called to reign over their respective kingdoms,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">they had not met for many years,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">though they frequently interchanged gifts,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">letters,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">and loving embassies.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000022">At length,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">after repeated invitations,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">Polixenes came from Bohemia to the Sicilian court,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">to make his friend Leontes a visit.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">At first this visit gave nothing but pleasure to Leontes.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">He recommended the friend of his youth to the queen’s particular attention,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">and seemed in the presence of his dear friend and old companion to have his felicity quite completed.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">They talked over old times;</span> 
    <span id="f000030">their schooldays and their youthful pranks were remembered,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">and recounted to Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">who always took a cheerful part in these conversations.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000033">When,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">after a long stay,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">Polixenes was preparing to depart,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">at the desire of her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">joined her entreaties to his that Polixenes would prolong his visit.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000039">And now began this good queen’s sorrow;</span> 
    <span id="f000040">for Polixenes refusing to stay at the request of Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">was won over by Hermione’s gentle and persuasive words to put off his departure for some weeks longer.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">Upon this,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">although Leontes had so long known the integrity and honourable principles of his friend Polixenes,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">as well as the excellent disposition of his virtuous queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">he was seized with an ungovernable jealousy.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">Every attention Hermione showed to Polixenes,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">though by her husband’s particular desire,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">and merely to please him,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">increased the unfortunate king’s jealousy;</span> 
    <span id="f000050">and from being a loving and a true friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">and the best and fondest of husbands,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">Leontes became suddenly a savage and inhuman monster.</span> 
    <span id="f000053">Sending for Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">one of the lords of his court,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">and telling him of the suspicion he entertained,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">he commanded him to poison Polixenes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">Camillo was a good man;</span> 
    <span id="f000058">and he,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">well knowing that the jealousy of Leontes had not the slightest foundation in truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">instead of poisoning Polixenes,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">acquainted him with the king his master’s orders,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">and agreed to escape with him out of the Sicilian dominions;</span> 
    <span id="f000063">and Polixenes,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">with the assistance of Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">arrived safe in his own kingdom of Bohemia,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">where Camillo lived from that time in the king’s court,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">and became the chief friend and favourite of Polixenes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000068">The flight of Polixenes enraged the jealous Leontes still more;</span> 
    <span id="f000069">he went to the queen’s apartment,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">where the good lady was sitting with her little son Mamillius,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">who was just beginning to tell one of his best stories to amuse his mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">when the king entered,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">and taking the child away,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">sent Hermione to prison.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000075">Mamillius,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">though but a very young child,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">loved his mother tenderly;</span> 
    <span id="f000078">and when he saw her so dishonoured,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">and found she was taken from him to be put into a prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">he took it deeply to heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">and drooped and pined away by slow degrees,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">losing his appetite and his sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">till it was thought his grief would kill him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000084">The king,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">when he had sent his queen to prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">commanded Cleomenes and Dion,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">two Sicilian lords,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">to go to Delphos,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">there to inquire of the oracle at the temple of Apollo,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">if his queen had been unfaithful to him.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">When Hermione had been a short time in prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">she was brought to bed of a daughter;</span> 
    <span id="f000093">and the poor lady received much comfort from the sight of her pretty baby,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">and she said to it:</span> 
    <span id="f000095">«My poor little prisoner,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">I am as innocent as you are.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">Hermione had a kind friend in the noble-spirited Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">who was the wife of Antigonus,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">a Sicilian lord;</span> 
    <span id="f000100">and when the lady Paulina heard her royal mistress was brought to bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">she went to the prison where Hermione was confined;</span> 
    <span id="f000102">and she said to Emilia,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">a lady who attended upon Hermione:</span> 
    <span id="f000104">«I pray you,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">Emilia,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">tell the good queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">if her majesty dare trust me with her little babe,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">I will carry it to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">its father;</span> 
    <span id="f000110">we do not know how he may soften at the sight of his innocent child.» «Most worthy madam,» replied Emilia,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">«I will acquaint the queen with your noble offer;</span> 
    <span id="f000112">she was wishing to-day that she had any friend who would venture to present the child to the king.» «And tell her,» said Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">«that I will speak boldly to Leontes in her defence.» «May you be for ever blessed,» said Emilia,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">«for your kindness to our gracious queen!» Emilia then went to Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">who joyfully gave up her baby to the care of Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">for she had feared that no one would dare venture to present the child to its father.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000117">Paulina took the new-born infant,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">and forcing herself into the king’s presence,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">notwithstanding her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">fearing the king’s anger,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">endeavoured to prevent her,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">she laid the babe at its father’s feet,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">and Paulina made a noble speech to the king in defence of Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and she reproached him severely for his inhumanity,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">and implored him to have mercy on his innocent wife and child.</span> 
    <span id="f000126">But Paulina’s spirited remonstrances only aggravated Leontes’ displeasure,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">and he ordered her husband Antigonus to take her from his presence.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000128">When Paulina went away,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">she left the little baby at its father’s feet,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">thinking when he was alone with it,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">he would look upon it,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">and have pity on its helpless innocence.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000133">The good Paulina was mistaken:</span> 
    <span id="f000134">for no sooner was she gone than the merciless father ordered Antigonus,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">Paulina’s husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">to take the child,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">and carry it out to sea,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">and leave it upon some desert shore to perish.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">Antigonus,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">unlike the good Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">too well obeyed the orders of Leontes;</span> 
    <span id="f000142">for he immediately carried the child on ship-board,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">and put out to sea,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">intending to leave it on the first desert coast he could find.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000145">So firmly was the king persuaded of the guilt of Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">that he would not wait for the return of Cleomenes and Dion,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">whom he had sent to consult the oracle of Apollo at Delphos;</span> 
    <span id="f000148">but before the queen was recovered from her lying-in,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">and from her grief for the loss of her precious baby,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">he had her brought to a public trial before all the lords and nobles of his court.</span> 
    <span id="f000151">And when all the great lords,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">the judges,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">and all the nobility of the land were assembled together to try Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">and that unhappy queen was standing as a prisoner before her subjects to receive their judgement Cleomenes and Dion entered the assembly,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">and presented to the king the answer of the oracle,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">sealed up;</span> 
    <span id="f000157">and Leontes commanded the seal to be broken,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">and the words of the oracle to be read aloud,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">and these were the words:</span> 
    <span id="f000160">«Hermione is innocent,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">Polixenes blameless, — Camillo a true subject,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">Leontes a jealous tyrant,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">and the king shall live without an heir if that which is lost be not found.» The king would give no credit to the words of the oracle:</span> 
    <span id="f000164">he said it was a falsehood invented by the queen’s friends,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">and he desired the judge to proceed in the trial of the queen;</span> 
    <span id="f000166">but while Leontes was speaking,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">a man entered and told him that the prince Mamillius,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">hearing his mother was to be tried for her life,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">struck with grief and shame,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">had suddenly died.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000171">Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">upon hearing of the death of this dear affectionate child,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">who had lost his life in sorrowing for her misfortune,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">fainted;</span> 
    <span id="f000175">and Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">pierced to the heart by the news,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">began to feel pity for his unhappy queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">and he ordered Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">and the ladies who were her attendants,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">to take her away,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">and use means for her recovery.</span> 
    <span id="f000182">Paulina soon returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">and told the king that Hermione was dead.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000184">When Leontes heard that the queen was dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">he repented of his cruelty to her;</span> 
    <span id="f000186">and now that he thought his ill-usage had broken Hermione’s heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">he believed her innocent;</span> 
    <span id="f000188">and now he thought the words of the oracle were true,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">as he knew «if that which was lost was not found,» which he concluded was his young daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">he should be without an heir,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">the young prince Mamillius being dead;</span> 
    <span id="f000192">and he would give his kingdom now to recover his lost daughter:</span> 
    <span id="f000193">and Leontes gave himself up to remorse,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">and passed many years in mournful thoughts and repentant grief.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000195">The ship in which Antigonus carried the infant princess out to sea was driven by a storm upon the coast of Bohemia,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">the very kingdom of the good king Polixenes.</span> 
    <span id="f000197">Here Antigonus landed,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">and here he left the little baby.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000199">Antigonus never returned to Sicily to tell Leontes where he had left his daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">for as he was going back to the ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">a bear came out of the woods,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">and tore him to pieces;</span> 
    <span id="f000203">a just punishment on him for obeying the wicked order of Leontes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000204">The child was dressed in rich clothes and jewels;</span> 
    <span id="f000205">for Hermione had made it very fine when she sent it to Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">and Antigonus had pinned a paper to its mantle,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">and the name of Perdita written thereon,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">and words obscurely intimating its high birth and untoward fate.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000209">This poor deserted baby was found by a shepherd.</span> 
    <span id="f000210">He was a humane man,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">and so he carried the little Perdita home to his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">who nursed it tenderly;</span> 
    <span id="f000213">but poverty tempted the shepherd to conceal the rich prize he had found:</span> 
    <span id="f000214">therefore he left that part of the country,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">that no one might know where he got his riches,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">and with part of Perdita’s jewels he bought herds of sheep,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">and became a wealthy shepherd.</span> 
    <span id="f000218">He brought up Perdita as his own child,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">and she knew not she was any other than a shepherd’s daughter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000220">The little Perdita grew up a lovely maiden;</span> 
    <span id="f000221">and though she had no better education than that of a shepherd’s daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">yet so did the natural graces she inherited from her royal mother shine forth in her untutored mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">that no one from her behaviour would have known she had not been brought up in her father’s court.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000224">Polixenes,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">the king of Bohemia,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">had an only son,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">whose name was Florizel.</span> 
    <span id="f000228">As this young prince was hunting near the shepherd’s dwelling,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">he saw the old man’s supposed daughter;</span> 
    <span id="f000230">and the beauty,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">modesty,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">and queen-like deportment of Perdita caused him instantly to fall in love with her.</span> 
    <span id="f000233">He soon,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">under the name of Doricles,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">and in the disguise of a private gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">became a constant visitor at the old shepherd’s house.</span> 
    <span id="f000237">Florizel’s frequent absences from court alarmed Polixenes;</span> 
    <span id="f000238">and setting people to watch his son,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">he discovered his love for the shepherd’s fair daughter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000240">Polixenes then called for Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">the faithful Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">who had preserved his life from the fury of Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">and desired that he would accompany him to the house of the shepherd,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">the supposed father of Perdita.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000245">Polixenes and Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">both in disguise,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">arrived at the old shepherd’s dwelling while they were celebrating the feast of sheep-shearing;</span> 
    <span id="f000248">and though they were strangers,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">yet at the sheep-shearing every guest being made welcome,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">they were invited to walk in,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">and join in the general festivity.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000252">Nothing but mirth and jollity was going forward.</span> 
    <span id="f000253">Tables were spread,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">and great preparations were making for the rustic feast.</span> 
    <span id="f000255">Some lads and lasses were dancing on the green before the house,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">while others of the young men were buying ribands,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">gloves,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">and such toys,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">of a pedlar at the door.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000260">While this busy scene was going forward,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">Florizel and Perdita sat quietly in a retired corner,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">seemingly more pleased with the conversation of each other,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">than desirous of engaging in the sports and silly amusements of those around them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000264">The king was so disguised that it was impossible his son could know him:</span> 
    <span id="f000265">he therefore advanced near enough to hear the conversation.</span> 
    <span id="f000266">The simple yet elegant manner in which Perdita conversed with his son did not a little surprise Polixenes:</span> 
    <span id="f000267">he said to Camillo:</span> 
    <span id="f000268">«This is the prettiest low-born lass I ever saw;</span> 
    <span id="f000269">nothing she does or says but looks like something greater than herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">too noble for this place.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000271">Camillo replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000272">«Indeed she is the very queen of curds and cream.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000273">«Pray,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">my good friend,» said the king to the old shepherd,« what fair swain is that talking with your daughter?» «They call him Doricles,» replied the shepherd.</span> 
    <span id="f000275">«He says he loves my daughter;</span> 
    <span id="f000276">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">to speak truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">there is not a kiss to choose which loves the other best.</span> 
    <span id="f000279">If young Doricles can get her,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">she shall bring him that he little dreams of»;</span> 
    <span id="f000281">meaning the remainder of Perdita’s jewels;</span> 
    <span id="f000282">which,</span> 
    <span id="f000283">after he had bought herds of sheep with part of them,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">he had carefully hoarded up for her marriage portion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000285">Polixenes then addressed his son.</span> 
    <span id="f000286">«How now,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">young man!» said he:</span> 
    <span id="f000288">«your heart seems full of something that takes off your mind from feasting.</span> 
    <span id="f000289">When I was young,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">I used to load my love with presents;</span> 
    <span id="f000291">but you have let the pedlar go,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">and have bought your lass no toy.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000293">The young prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">who little thought he was talking to the king his father,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000296">«Old sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">she prizes not such trifles;</span> 
    <span id="f000298">the gifts which Perdita expects from me are locked up in my heart.» Then turning to Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">he said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000300">«O hear me,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">before this ancient gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">who it seems was once himself a lover;</span> 
    <span id="f000304">he shall hear what I profess.» Florizel then called upon the old stranger to be a witness to a solemn promise of marriage which he made to Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">saying to Polixenes:</span> 
    <span id="f000306">«I pray you,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">mark our contract.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000308">«Mark your divorce,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">young sir,» said the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">discovering himself.</span> 
    <span id="f000311">Polixenes then reproached his son for daring to contract himself to this low-born maiden,</span> 
    <span id="f000312">calling Perdita «shepherd’s brat,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">sheep-hook,» and other disrespectful names;</span> 
    <span id="f000314">and threatening,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">if ever she suffered his son to see her again,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">he would put her,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">and the old shepherd her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">to a cruel death.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000319">The king then left them in great wrath,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">and ordered Camillo to follow him with prince Florizel.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000321">When the king had departed,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">whose royal nature was roused by Polixenes’ reproaches,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000325">«Though we are all undone,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">I was not much afraid;</span> 
    <span id="f000327">and once or twice I was about to speak,</span> 
    <span id="f000328">and tell him plainly that the selfsame sun which shines upon his palace,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">hides not his face from our cottage,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">but looks on both alike.» Then sorrowfully she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000331">«But now I am awakened from this dream,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">I will queen it no further.</span> 
    <span id="f000333">Leave me,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">sir;</span> 
    <span id="f000335">I will go milk my ewes and weep.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000336">The kind-hearted Camillo was charmed with the spirit and propriety of Perdita’s behaviour;</span> 
    <span id="f000337">and perceiving that the young prince was too deeply in love to give up his mistress at the command of his royal father,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">he thought of a way to befriend the lovers,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">and at the same time to execute a favourite scheme he had in his mind.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000340">Camillo had long known that Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">the king of Sicily,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">was become a true penitent;</span> 
    <span id="f000343">and though Camillo was now the favoured friend of king Polixenes,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">he could not help wishing once more to see his late royal master and his native home.</span> 
    <span id="f000345">He therefore proposed to Florizel and Perdita that they should accompany him to the Sicilian court,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">where he would engage Leontes should protect them,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">till,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">through his mediation,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">they could obtain pardon from Polixenes,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">and his consent to their marriage.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000351">To this proposal they joyfully agreed;</span> 
    <span id="f000352">and Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000353">who conducted everything relative to their flight,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">allowed the old shepherd to go along with them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000355">The shepherd took with him the remainder of Perdita’s jewels,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">her baby clothes,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">and the paper which he had found pinned to her mantle.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000358">After a prosperous voyage,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">Florizel and Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">Camillo and the old shepherd,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">arrived in safety at the court of Leontes.</span> 
    <span id="f000362">Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">who still mourned his dead Hermione and his lost child,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">received Camillo with great kindness,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">and gave a cordial welcome to prince Florizel.</span> 
    <span id="f000366">But Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">whom Florizel introduced as his princess,</span> 
    <span id="f000368">seemed to engross all Leontes’ attention:</span> 
    <span id="f000369">perceiving a resemblance between her and his dead queen Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">his grief broke out afresh,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">and he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">such a lovely creature might his own daughter have been,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">if he had not so cruelly destroyed her.</span> 
    <span id="f000374">«And then,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">too,» said he to Florizel,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">«I lost the society and friendship of your grave father,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">whom I now desire more than my life once again to look upon.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000378">When the old shepherd heard how much notice the king had taken of Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">and that he had lost a daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">who was exposed in infancy,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">he fell to comparing the time when he found the little Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000382">with the manner of its exposure,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">the jewels and other tokens of its high birth;</span> 
    <span id="f000384">from all which it was impossible for him not to conclude that Perdita and the king’s lost daughter were the same.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000385">Florizel and Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">Camillo and the faithful Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">were present when the old shepherd related to the king the manner in which he had found the child,</span> 
    <span id="f000388">and also the circumstance of Antigonus’ death,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">he having seen the bear seize upon him.</span> 
    <span id="f000390">He showed the rich mantle in which Paulina remembered Hermione had wrapped the child;</span> 
    <span id="f000391">and he produced a jewel which she remembered Hermione had tied about Perdita’s neck,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">and he gave up the paper which Paulina knew to be the writing of her husband;</span> 
    <span id="f000393">it could not be doubted that Perdita was Leontes’ own daughter:</span> 
    <span id="f000394">but oh!</span> 
    <span id="f000395">the noble struggles of Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">between sorrow for her husband’s death,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">and joy that the oracle was fulfilled,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">in the king’s heir,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">his long-lost daughter being found.</span> 
    <span id="f000400">When Leontes heard that Perdita was his daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">the great sorrow that he felt that Hermione was not living to behold her child,</span> 
    <span id="f000402">made him that he could say nothing for a long time,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">but «O thy mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">thy mother!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000405">Paulina interrupted this joyful yet distressful scene,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">with saying to Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">that she had a statue newly finished by that rare Italian master,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">Julio Romano,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">which was such a perfect resemblance of the queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">that would his majesty be pleased to go to her house and look upon it,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">he would be almost ready to think it was Hermione herself.</span> 
    <span id="f000412">Thither then they all went;</span> 
    <span id="f000413">the king anxious to see the semblance of his Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">and Perdita longing to behold what the mother she never saw did look like.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000415">When Paulina drew back the curtain which concealed this famous statue,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">so perfectly did it resemble Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000417">that all the king’s sorrow was renewed at the sight:</span> 
    <span id="f000418">for a long time he had no power to speak or move.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000419">«I like your silence,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">my liege,» said Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">«it the more shows your wonder.</span> 
    <span id="f000422">Is not this statue very like your queen?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000423">At length the king said:</span> 
    <span id="f000424">«O,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">thus she stood,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">even with such majesty,</span> 
    <span id="f000427">when I first wooed her.</span> 
    <span id="f000428">But yet,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">Hermione was not so aged as this statue looks.» Paulina replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000431">«So much the more the carver’s excellence,</span> 
    <span id="f000432">who has made the statue as Hermione would have looked had she been living now.</span> 
    <span id="f000433">But let me draw the curtain,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">sire,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">lest presently you think it moves.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000436">The king then said:</span> 
    <span id="f000437">«Do not draw the curtain;</span> 
    <span id="f000438">would I were dead!</span> 
    <span id="f000439">See,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000441">would you not think it breathed?</span> 
    <span id="f000442">Her eye seems to have motion in it.» «I must draw the curtain,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">my liege,» said Paulina.</span> 
    <span id="f000444">«You are so transported,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">you will persuade yourself the statue lives.» «O,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">sweet Paulina,» said Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">«make me think so twenty years together!</span> 
    <span id="f000448">Still methinks there is an air comes from her.</span> 
    <span id="f000449">What fine chisel could ever yet cut breath?</span> 
    <span id="f000450">Let no man mock me,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">for I will kiss her.» «Good my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">forbear!» said Paulina.</span> 
    <span id="f000453">«The ruddiness upon her lip is wet;</span> 
    <span id="f000454">you will stain your own with oily painting.</span> 
    <span id="f000455">Shall I draw the curtain?» «No,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">not these twenty years,» said Leontes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000457">Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">who all this time had been kneeling,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">and beholding in silent admiration the statue of her matchless mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">said now:</span> 
    <span id="f000461">«And so long could I stay here,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">looking upon my dear mother.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000463">«Either forbear this transport,» said Paulina to Leontes,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">«and let me draw the curtain;</span> 
    <span id="f000465">or prepare yourself for more amazement.</span> 
    <span id="f000466">I can make the statue move indeed;</span> 
    <span id="f000467">ay,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">and descend from off the pedestal,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">and take you by the hand.</span> 
    <span id="f000470">But then you will think,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">which I protest I am not,</span> 
    <span id="f000472">that I am assisted by some wicked powers.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000473">«What you can make her do,» said the astonished king,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">«I am content to hear;</span> 
    <span id="f000475">for it is as easy to make her speak as move.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000476">Paulina then ordered some slow and solemn music,</span> 
    <span id="f000477">which she had prepared for the purpose,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">to strike up;</span> 
    <span id="f000479">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">to the amazement of all the beholders,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">the statue came down from off the pedestal,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">and threw its arms around Leontes’ neck.</span> 
    <span id="f000483">The statue then began to speak,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">praying for blessings on her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">and on her child,</span> 
    <span id="f000486">the newly-found Perdita.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000487">No wonder that the statue hung upon Leontes’ neck,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">and blessed her husband and her child.</span> 
    <span id="f000489">No wonder;</span> 
    <span id="f000490">for the statue was indeed Hermione herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">the real,</span> 
    <span id="f000492">the living queen.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000493">Paulina had falsely reported to the king the death of Hermione,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">thinking that the only means to preserve her royal mistress’s life;</span> 
    <span id="f000495">and with the good Paulina,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">Hermione had lived ever since,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">never choosing Leontes should know she was living,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">till she heard Perdita was found;</span> 
    <span id="f000499">for though she had long forgiven the injuries which Leontes had done to herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">she could not pardon his cruelty to his infant daughter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000501">His dead queen thus restored to life,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">his lost daughter found,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">the longsorrowing Leontes could scarcely support the excess of his own happiness.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000504">Nothing but congratulations and affectionate speeches were heard on all sides.</span> 
    <span id="f000505">Now the delighted parents thanked prince Florizel for loving their lowly-seeming daughter;</span> 
    <span id="f000506">and now they blessed the good old shepherd for preserving their child.</span> 
    <span id="f000507">Greatly did Camillo and Paulina rejoice that they had lived to see so good an end of all their faithful services.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000508">And as if nothing should be wanting to complete this strange and unlooked-for joy,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">king Polixenes himself now entered the palace.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000510">When Polixenes first missed his son and Camillo,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">knowing that Camillo had long wished to return to Sicily,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">he conjectured he should find the fugitives here;</span> 
    <span id="f000513">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">following them with all speed,</span> 
    <span id="f000515">he happened to just arrive at this,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">the happiest moment of Leontes’ life.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000517">Polixenes took a part in the general joy;</span> 
    <span id="f000518">he forgave his friend Leontes the unjust jealousy he had conceived against him,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">and they once more loved each other with all the warmth of their first boyish friendship.</span> 
    <span id="f000520">And there was no fear that Polixenes would now oppose his son’s marriage with Perdita.</span> 
    <span id="f000521">She was no «sheep-hook» now,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">but the heiress of the crown of Sicily.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000523">Thus have we seen the patient virtues of the long-suffering Hermione rewarded.</span> 
    <span id="f000524">That excellent lady lived many years with her Leontes and her Perdita,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">the happiest of mothers and of queens.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>