<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Much Ado About Nothing</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">There lived in the palace at Messina two ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">whose names were Hero and Beatrice.</span> 
    <span id="f000004">Hero was the daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">and Beatrice the niece,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">of Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">the governor of Messina.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000008">Beatrice was of a lively temper,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and loved to divert her cousin Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">who was of a more serious disposition,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">with her sprightly sallies.</span> 
    <span id="f000012">Whatever was going forward was sure to make matter of mirth for the light-hearted Beatrice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">At the time the history of these ladies commences some young men of high rank in the army,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">as they were passing through Messina on their return from a war that was just ended,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">in which they had distinguished themselves by their great bravery,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">came to visit Leonato.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Among these were Don Pedro,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">the prince of Arragon;</span> 
    <span id="f000019">and his friend Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">who was a lord of Florence;</span> 
    <span id="f000021">and with them came the wild and witty Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">and he was a lord of Padua.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000023">These strangers had been at Messina before,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">and the hospitable governor introduced them to his daughter and his niece as their old friends and acquaintance.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000025">Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">the moment he entered the room,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">began a lively conversation with Leonato and the prince.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">who liked not to be left out of any discourse,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">interrupted Benedick with saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000031">«I wonder that you will still be talking,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">signior Benedick:</span> 
    <span id="f000033">nobody marks you.» Benedick was just such another rattle-brain as Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">yet he was not pleased at this free salutation;</span> 
    <span id="f000035">he thought it did not become a well-bred lady to be so flippant with her tongue;</span> 
    <span id="f000036">and he remembered,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">when he was last at Messina,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">that Beatrice used to select him to make her merry jests upon.</span> 
    <span id="f000039">And as there is no one who so little likes to be made a jest of as those who are apt to take the same liberty themselves,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">so it was with Benedick and Beatrice;</span> 
    <span id="f000041">these two sharp wits never met in former times but a perfect war of raillery was kept up between them,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and they always parted mutually displeased with each other.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">Therefore when Beatrice stopped him in the middle of his discourse with telling him nobody marked what he was saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">affecting not to have observed before that she was present,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000047">«What,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">my dear lady Disdain,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">are you yet living?» And now war broke out afresh between them,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">and a long jangling argument ensued,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">during which Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">although she knew he had so well approved his valour in the late war,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">said that she would eat all he had killed there:</span> 
    <span id="f000054">and observing the prince take delight in Benedick’s conversation,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">she called him «the prince’s jester.» This sarcasm sunk deeper into the mind of Benedick than all Beatrice had said before.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">The hint she gave him that he was a coward,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">by saying she would eat all he had killed,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">he did not regard,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">knowing himself to be a brave man;</span> 
    <span id="f000060">but there is nothing that great wits so much dread as the imputation of buffoonery,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">because the charge comes sometimes a little too near the truth:</span> 
    <span id="f000062">therefore Benedick perfectly hated Beatrice when she called him «the prince’s jester.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000063">The modest lady Hero was silent before the noble guests;</span> 
    <span id="f000064">and while Claudio was attentively observing the improvement which time had made in her beauty,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">and was contemplating the exquisite graces of her fine figure (for she was an admirable young lady),</span> 
    <span id="f000066">the prince was highly amused with listening to the humorous dialogue between Benedick and Beatrice;</span> 
    <span id="f000067">and he said in a whisper to Leonato:</span> 
    <span id="f000068">«This is a pleasant-spirited young lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000069">She were an excellent wife for Benedick.» Leonato replied to this suggestion:</span> 
    <span id="f000070">«O,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">if they were but a week married,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">they would talk themselves mad.» But though Leonato thought they would make a discordant pair,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">the prince did not give up the idea of matching these two keen wits together.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000076">When the prince returned with Claudio from the palace,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">he found that the marriage he had devised between Benedick and Beatrice was not the only one projected in that good company,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">for Claudio spoke in such terms of Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">as made the prince guess at what was passing in his heart;</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and he liked it well,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">and he said to Claudio:</span> 
    <span id="f000082">«Do you affect Hero?» To this question Claudio replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000083">«O my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">when I was last at Messina,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">I looked upon her with a soldier’s eye,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">that liked,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">but had no leisure for loving;</span> 
    <span id="f000088">but now,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">in this happy time of peace,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">thoughts of war have left their places vacant in my mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">and in their room come thronging soft and delicate thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">all prompting me how fair young Hero is,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">reminding me that I liked her before I went to the wars.» Claudio’s confession of his love for Hero so wrought upon the prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">that he lost no time in soliciting the consent of Leonato to accept of Claudio for a son-in-law.</span> 
    <span id="f000095">Leonato agreed to this proposal,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">and the prince found no great difficulty in persuading the gentle Hero herself to listen to the suit of the noble Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">who was a lord of rare endowments,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">and highly accomplished,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">and Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">assisted by his kind prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">soon prevailed upon Leonato to fix an early day for the celebration of his marriage with Hero.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">Claudio was to wait but a few days before he was to be married to his fair lady;</span> 
    <span id="f000103">yet he complained of the interval being tedious,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">as indeed most young men are impatient when they are waiting for the accomplishment of any event they have set their hearts upon:</span> 
    <span id="f000105">the prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">therefore,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">to make the time seem short to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">proposed as a kind of merry pastime that they should invent some artful scheme to make Benedick and Beatrice fall in love with each other.</span> 
    <span id="f000109">Claudio entered with great satisfaction into this whim of the prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">and Leonato promised them his assistance,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">and even Hero said she would do any modest office to help her cousin to a good husband.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000112">The device the prince invented was,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">that the gentlemen should make Benedick believe that Beatrice was in love with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">and that Hero should make Beatrice believe that Benedick was in love with her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000115">The prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">and Claudio began their operations first:</span> 
    <span id="f000118">and watching upon an opportunity when Benedick was quietly seated reading in an arbour,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">the prince and his assistants took their station among the trees behind the arbour,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">so near that Benedick could not choose but hear all they said;</span> 
    <span id="f000121">and after some careless talk the prince said:</span> 
    <span id="f000122">«Come hither,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">Leonato.</span> 
    <span id="f000124">What was it you told me the other day — that your niece Beatrice was in love with signior Benedick?</span> 
    <span id="f000125">I did never think that lady would have loved any man.» «No,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">nor I neither,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">my lord.» answered Leonato.</span> 
    <span id="f000128">«It is most wonderful that she should so dote on Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">whom she in all outward behaviour seemed ever to dislike.» Claudio confirmed all this with saying that Hero had told him Beatrice was so in love with Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">that she would certainly die of grief,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">if he could not be brought to love her;</span> 
    <span id="f000132">which Leonato and Claudio seemed to agree was impossible,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">he having always been such a railer against all fair ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">and in particular against Beatrice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000135">The prince affected to hearken to all this with great compassion for Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000137">«It were good that Benedick were told of this.» «To what end?» said Claudio;</span> 
    <span id="f000138">«he would but make sport of it,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">and torment the poor lady worse.» «And if he should,» said the prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">«it were a good deed to hang him;</span> 
    <span id="f000141">for Beatrice is an excellent sweet lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">and exceeding wise in everything but in loving Benedick.» Then the prince motioned to his companions that they should walk on,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">and leave Benedick to meditate upon what he had overheard.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000144">Benedick had been listening with great eagerness to this conversation;</span> 
    <span id="f000145">and he said to himself when he heard Beatrice loved him:</span> 
    <span id="f000146">«Is it possible?</span> 
    <span id="f000147">Sits the wind in that corner?» And when they were gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">he began to reason in this manner with himself:</span> 
    <span id="f000149">«This can be no trick!</span> 
    <span id="f000150">they were very serious,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">and they have the truth from Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">and seem to pity the lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000153">Love me!</span> 
    <span id="f000154">Why it must be requited!</span> 
    <span id="f000155">I did never think to marry.</span> 
    <span id="f000156">But when I said I should die a bachelor,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">I did not think I should live to be married.</span> 
    <span id="f000158">They say the lady is virtuous and fair.</span> 
    <span id="f000159">She is so.</span> 
    <span id="f000160">And wise in everything but loving me.</span> 
    <span id="f000161">Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">that is no great argument of her folly.</span> 
    <span id="f000163">But here comes Beatrice.</span> 
    <span id="f000164">By this day,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">she is a fair lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000166">I do spy some marks of love in her.» Beatrice now approached him,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">and said with her usual tartness:</span> 
    <span id="f000168">«Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.» Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">who never felt himself disposed to speak so politely to her before,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000171">«Fair Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">I thank you for your pains»;</span> 
    <span id="f000173">and when Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">after two or three more rude speeches,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">left him,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">Benedick thought he observed a concealed meaning of kindness under the uncivil words she uttered,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">and he said aloud:</span> 
    <span id="f000178">«If I do not take pity on her,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">I am a villain.</span> 
    <span id="f000180">If I do not love her,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">I am a Jew.</span> 
    <span id="f000182">I will go get her picture.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000183">The gentleman being thus caught in the net they had spread for him,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">it was now Hero’s turn to play her part with Beatrice;</span> 
    <span id="f000185">and for this purpose she sent for Ursula and Margaret,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">two gentlewomen who attended upon her,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">and she said to Margaret:</span> 
    <span id="f000188">«Good Margaret,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">run to the parlour;</span> 
    <span id="f000190">there you will kind my cousin Beatrice talking with the prince and Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000191">Whisper in her ear,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">that I and Ursula are walking in the orchard,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">and that our discourse is all of her.</span> 
    <span id="f000194">Bid her steal into that pleasant arbour,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">where honeysuckles,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">ripened by the sun,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">like ungrateful minions,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">forbid the sun to enter.» This arbour,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">into which Hero desired Margaret to entice Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">was the very same pleasant arbour where Benedick had so lately been an attentive listener.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000201">«I will make her come,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">I warrant,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">presently,» said Margaret.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000204">Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">then taking Ursula with her into the orchard,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000207">«Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">Ursula,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">when Beatrice comes,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">we will walk up and down this alley,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">and our talk must be only of Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">and when I name him,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">let it be your part to praise him more than ever man did merit.</span> 
    <span id="f000214">My talk to you must be how Benedick is in love with Beatrice.</span> 
    <span id="f000215">Now begin;</span> 
    <span id="f000216">for look where Beatrice like a lapwing runs close by the ground,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">to hear our conference.» They then began;</span> 
    <span id="f000218">Hero saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">as if in answer to something which Ursula had said:</span> 
    <span id="f000220">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">truly,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">Ursula.</span> 
    <span id="f000223">She is too disdainful;</span> 
    <span id="f000224">her spirits are as coy as wild birds of the rock.» «But are you sure,» said Ursula,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">«that Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?» Hero replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000226">« So says the prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">and my lord Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">and they entreated me to acquaint her with it;</span> 
    <span id="f000229">but I persuaded them,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">if they loved Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">never to let Beatrice know of it.» «Certainly,» replied Ursula,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">«it were not good she knew his love,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">lest she made sport of it.» «Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">to say truth,» said Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">«I never yet saw a man,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">how wise soever,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">or noble,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">young,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">or rarely featured,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">but she would dispraise him.» «Sure,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">sure,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">such carping is not commendable,» said Ursula.</span> 
    <span id="f000243">«No,» replied Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">«but who dare tell her so?</span> 
    <span id="f000245">If I should speak,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">she would mock me into air.» «O!</span> 
    <span id="f000247">you wrong your cousin,» said Ursula:</span> 
    <span id="f000248">«she cannot be so much without true judgment,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">as to refuse so rare a gentleman as signior Benedick.» «He hath an excellent good name,» said Hero:</span> 
    <span id="f000250">«indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">he is the first man in Italy,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">always excepting my dear Claudio.» And now,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">Hero giving her attendant a hint that it was time to change the discourse,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">Ursula said:</span> 
    <span id="f000255">«And when are you to be married,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">madam?» Hero then told her,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">that she was to be married to Claudio the next day,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">and desired she would go in with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">and look at some new attire,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">as she wished to consult with her on what she would wear on the morrow.</span> 
    <span id="f000261">Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">who had been listening with breathless eagerness to this dialogue,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">when they went away,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">exclaimed:</span> 
    <span id="f000265">«What fire is in mine ears?</span> 
    <span id="f000266">Can this be true?</span> 
    <span id="f000267">Farewell,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">contempt and scorn,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">and maiden pride,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">adieu!</span> 
    <span id="f000271">Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">love on!</span> 
    <span id="f000273">I will requite you,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">taming my wild heart to your loving hand.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000275">It must have been a pleasant sight to see these old enemies converted into new and loving friends,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">and to behold their first meeting after being cheated into mutual liking by the merry artifice of the goodhumoured prince.</span> 
    <span id="f000277">But a sad reverse in the fortunes of Hero must now be thought of.</span> 
    <span id="f000278">The morrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">which was to have been her wedding-day,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">brought sorrow on the heart of Hero and her good father Leonato.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000281">The prince had a half-brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000282">who came from the wars along with him to Messina.</span> 
    <span id="f000283">This brother (his name was Don John) was a melancholy,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">discontented man,</span> 
    <span id="f000285">whose spirits seemed to labour in the contriving of villanies.</span> 
    <span id="f000286">He hated the prince his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">and he hated Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">because he was the prince’s friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">and determined to prevent Claudio’s marriage with Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">only for the malicious pleasure of making Claudio and the prince unhappy;</span> 
    <span id="f000291">for he knew the prince had set his heart upon this marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">almost as much as Claudio himself;</span> 
    <span id="f000293">and to effect this wicked purpose,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">he employed one Borachio,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">a man as bad as himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">whom he encouraged with the offer of a great reward.</span> 
    <span id="f000297">This Borachio paid his court to Margaret,</span> 
    <span id="f000298">Hero’s attendant;</span> 
    <span id="f000299">and Don John,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">knowing this,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">prevailed upon him to make Margaret promise to talk with him from her lady’s chamber window that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">after Hero was asleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">and also to dress herself in Hero’s clothes,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">the better to deceive Claudio into the belief that it was Hero;</span> 
    <span id="f000305">for that was the end he meant to compass by this wicked plot.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000306">Don John then went to the prince and Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">and told them that Hero was an imprudent lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">and that she talked with men from her chamber window at midnight.</span> 
    <span id="f000309">Now this was the evening before the wedding,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">and he offered to take them that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">where they should themselves hear Hero discoursing with a man from her window;</span> 
    <span id="f000312">and they consented to go along with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">and Claudio said:</span> 
    <span id="f000314">«If I see anything to-night why I should not marry her,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">to-morrow in the congregation,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">where I intended to wed her,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">there will I shame her.» The prince also said:</span> 
    <span id="f000318">«And as I assisted you to obtain her,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">I will join with you to disgrace her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000320">When Don John brought them near Hero’s chamber that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">they saw Borachio standing under the window,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">and they saw Margaret looking out of Hero’s window,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">and heard her talking with Borachio:</span> 
    <span id="f000324">and Margaret being dressed in the same clothes they had seen Hero wear,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">the prince and Claudio believed it was the lady Hero herself.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000326">Nothing could equal the anger of Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">when he had made (as he thought) this discovery.</span> 
    <span id="f000328">All his love for the innocent Hero was at once converted into hatred,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">and he resolved to expose her in the church,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">as he had said he would,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">the next day;</span> 
    <span id="f000332">and the prince agreed to this,</span> 
    <span id="f000333">thinking no punishment could be too severe for the naughty lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">who talked with a man from her window the very night before she was going to be married to the noble Claudio.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000335">The next day,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">when they were all met to celebrate the marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">and Claudio and Hero were standing before the priest,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">and the priest,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">or friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">as he was called,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">was proceeding to pronounce the marriage ceremony,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">in the most passionate language,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">proclaimed the guilt of the blameless Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">amazed at the strange words he uttered,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">said meekly:</span> 
    <span id="f000348">«Is my lord well,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">that he does speak so wide?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000350">Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">in the utmost horror,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">said to the prince:</span> 
    <span id="f000353">«My lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">why speak not you?» «What should I speak?» said the prince;</span> 
    <span id="f000355">«I stand dishonoured,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">that have gone about to link my dear friend to an unworthy woman.</span> 
    <span id="f000357">Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">upon my honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">myself,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">my brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">and this grieved Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">did see and hear her last night at midnight talk with a man at her chamber window.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000363">Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">in astonishment at what he heard,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000366">«This looks not like a nuptial.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000367">«True,</span> 
    <span id="f000368">O God!» replied the heart-struck Hero;</span> 
    <span id="f000369">and then this hapless lady sunk down in a fainting fit,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">to all appearance dead.</span> 
    <span id="f000371">The prince and Claudio left the church,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">without staying to see if Hero would recover,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">or at all regarding the distress into which they had thrown Leonato.</span> 
    <span id="f000374">So hard-hearted had their anger made them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000375">Benedick remained,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">and assisted Beatrice to recover Hero from her swoon,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000378">«How does the lady?» «Dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">I think,» replied Beatrice in great agony,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">for she loved her cousin;</span> 
    <span id="f000381">and knowing her virtuous principles,</span> 
    <span id="f000382">she believed nothing of what she had heard spoken against her.</span> 
    <span id="f000383">Not so the poor old father;</span> 
    <span id="f000384">he believed the story of his child’s shame,</span> 
    <span id="f000385">and it was piteous to hear him lamenting over her,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">as she lay like one dead before him,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">wishing she might never more open her eyes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000388">But the ancient friar was a wise man,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">and full of observation on human nature,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">and he had attentively marked the lady’s countenance when she heard herself accused,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">and noted a thousand blushing shames to start into her face,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">and then he saw an angel-like whiteness bear away those blushes,</span> 
    <span id="f000393">and in her eye he saw a fire that did belie the error that the prince did speak against her maiden truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">and he said to the sorrowing father:</span> 
    <span id="f000395">«Call me a fool;</span> 
    <span id="f000396">trust not my reading,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">nor my observation;</span> 
    <span id="f000398">trust not my age,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">my reverence,</span> 
    <span id="f000400">nor my calling,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">if this sweet lady lie not guiltless here under some biting error.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000402">When Hero had recovered from the swoon into which she had fallen,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">the friar said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000404">«Lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">what man is he you are accused of?» Hero replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000406">«They know that do accuse me;</span> 
    <span id="f000407">I know of none»:</span> 
    <span id="f000408">then turning to Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000410">«O my father,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">if you can prove that any man has ever conversed with me at hours unmeet,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">or that I yesternight changed words with any creature,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">refuse me,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">hate me,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">torture me to death.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000416">«There is,» said the friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000417">«some strange misunderstanding in the prince and Claudio»;</span> 
    <span id="f000418">and then he counselled Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000419">that he should report that Hero was dead;</span> 
    <span id="f000420">and he said that the death-like swoon in which they had left Hero would make this easy of belief;</span> 
    <span id="f000421">and he also advised him that he should put on mourning,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">and erect a monument for her,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">and do all rites that appertain to a burial.</span> 
    <span id="f000424">«What shall become of this?» said Leonato;</span> 
    <span id="f000425">«What will this do?» The friar replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000426">«This report of her death shall change slander into pity:</span> 
    <span id="f000427">that is some good;</span> 
    <span id="f000428">but that is not all the good I hope for.</span> 
    <span id="f000429">When Claudio shall hear she died upon hearing his words,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">the idea of her life shall sweetly creep into his imagination.</span> 
    <span id="f000431">Then shall he mourn,</span> 
    <span id="f000432">if ever love had interest in his heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">and wish that he had not so accused her;</span> 
    <span id="f000434">yea,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">though he thought his accusation true.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000436">Benedick now said:</span> 
    <span id="f000437">«Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000438">let the friar advise you;</span> 
    <span id="f000439">and though you know how well I love the prince and Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">yet on my honour I will not reveal this secret to them.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000441">Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">thus persuaded,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">yielded;</span> 
    <span id="f000444">and he said sorrowfully:</span> 
    <span id="f000445">«I am so grieved,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">that the smallest twine may lead me.» The kind friar then led Leonato and Hero away to comfort and console them,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">and Beatrice and Benedick remained alone;</span> 
    <span id="f000448">and this was the meeting from which their friends,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">who contrived the merry plot against them,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">expected so much diversion;</span> 
    <span id="f000451">those friends who were now overwhelmed with affliction,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">and from whose minds all thoughts of merriment seemed for ever banished.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000453">Benedick was the first who spoke,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000455">«Lady Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">have you wept all this while?» «Yea,</span> 
    <span id="f000457">and I will weep a while longer,» said Beatrice.</span> 
    <span id="f000458">«Surely,» said Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">«I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.» «Ah!» said Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">«how much might that man deserve of me who would right her!» Benedick then said:</span> 
    <span id="f000461">«Is there any way to show such friendship?</span> 
    <span id="f000462">I do love nothing in the world so well as you:</span> 
    <span id="f000463">is not that strange?» «It were as possible,» said Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">«for me to say I loved nothing in the world so well as you;</span> 
    <span id="f000465">but believe me not,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">and yet I lie not.</span> 
    <span id="f000467">I confess nothing,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">nor I deny nothing.</span> 
    <span id="f000469">I am sorry for my cousin.» «By my sword,» said Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000470">«you love me,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">and I protest I love you.</span> 
    <span id="f000472">Come,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">bid me do anything for you.» «Kill Claudio,» said Beatrice.</span> 
    <span id="f000474">«Ha!</span> 
    <span id="f000475">not for the wide world,» said Benedick;</span> 
    <span id="f000476">for he loved his friend Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000477">and he believed he had been imposed upon.</span> 
    <span id="f000478">«Is not Claudio a villain,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">that has slandered,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">scorned,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">and dishonoured my cousin?» said Beatrice:</span> 
    <span id="f000482">«O that I were a man!» «Hear me,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">Beatrice!» said Benedick.</span> 
    <span id="f000484">But Beatrice would hear nothing in Claudio’s defence;</span> 
    <span id="f000485">and she continued to urge on Benedick to revenge her cousin’s wrongs:</span> 
    <span id="f000486">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000487">«Talk with a man out of the window;</span> 
    <span id="f000488">a proper saying!</span> 
    <span id="f000489">Sweet Hero!</span> 
    <span id="f000490">she is wronged;</span> 
    <span id="f000491">she is slandered;</span> 
    <span id="f000492">she is undone.</span> 
    <span id="f000493">O that I were a man for Claudio’s sake!</span> 
    <span id="f000494">or that I had any friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">who would be a man for my sake!</span> 
    <span id="f000496">but velour is melted into courtesies and compliments.</span> 
    <span id="f000497">I cannot be a man with wishing,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">therefore I will die a woman with grieving.» «Tarry,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">good Beatrice,» said Benedick;</span> 
    <span id="f000500">«by this hand I love you.» «Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it,» said Beatrice.</span> 
    <span id="f000501">«Think you on your soul that Claudio has wronged Hero?» asked Benedick.</span> 
    <span id="f000502">«Yea,» answered Beatrice;</span> 
    <span id="f000503">«as sure as I have a thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">or a soul.» «Enough,» said Benedick;</span> 
    <span id="f000505">«I am engaged;</span> 
    <span id="f000506">I will challenge him.</span> 
    <span id="f000507">I will kiss your hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000508">and so leave you.</span> 
    <span id="f000509">By tints hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">Claudio shall render me a dear account!</span> 
    <span id="f000511">As you hear from me,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">so think of me.</span> 
    <span id="f000513">Go,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">comfort your cousin.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000515">While Beatrice was thus powerfully pleading with Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">and working his gallant temper by the spirit of her angry words,</span> 
    <span id="f000517">to engage in the cause of Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">and fight even with his dear friend Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">Leonato was challenging the prince and Claudio to answer with their swords the injury they had done his child,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">he affirmed,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">had died for grief.</span> 
    <span id="f000523">But they respected his age and his sorrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">and they said:</span> 
    <span id="f000525">«Nay,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">do not quarrel with us,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">good old man.» And now came Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">and he also challenged Claudio to answer with his sword the injury he had done to Hero;</span> 
    <span id="f000529">and Claudio and the prince said to each other:</span> 
    <span id="f000530">«Beatrice has set him on to do this.» Claudio nevertheless must have accepted this challenge of Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000531">had not the justice of Heaven at the moment brought to pass a better proof of the innocence of Hero than the uncertain fortune of a duel.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000532">While the prince and Claudio were yet talking of the challenge of Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">a magistrate brought Borachio as a prisoner before the prince.</span> 
    <span id="f000534">Borachio had been overheard talking with one of his companions of the mischief he had been employed by Don John to do.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000535">Borachio made a full confession to the prince in Claudio’s hearing,</span> 
    <span id="f000536">that it was Margaret dressed in her lady’s clothes that he had talked with from the window,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">whom they had mistaken for the lady Hero herself;</span> 
    <span id="f000538">and no doubt continued on the minds of Claudio and the prince of the innocence of Hero.</span> 
    <span id="f000539">If a suspicion had remained it must have been removed by the flight of Don John,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">funding his villanies were detected,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">fled from Messina to avoid the just anger of his brother.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000543">The heart of Claudio was sorely grieved when he found he had falsely accused Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000544">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">he thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">died upon hearing his cruel words;</span> 
    <span id="f000547">and the memory of his beloved Hero’s image came over him,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">in the rare semblance that he loved it first;</span> 
    <span id="f000549">and the prince asking him if what he heard did not run like iron through his soul,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">he answered,</span> 
    <span id="f000551">that he felt as if he had taken poison while Borachio was speaking.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000552">And the repentant Claudio implored forgiveness of the old man Leonato for the injury he had done his child;</span> 
    <span id="f000553">and promised,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">that whatever penance Leonato would lay upon him for his fault in believing the false accusation against his betrothed wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">for her dear sake he would endure it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000556">The penance Leonato enjoined him was,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">to marry the next morning a cousin of Hero’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">was now his heir,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">and in person very like Hero.</span> 
    <span id="f000562">Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">regarding the solemn promise he made to Leonato,</span> 
    <span id="f000564">said,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">he would marry this unknown lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">even though she were an Ethiop:</span> 
    <span id="f000567">but his heart was very sorrowful,</span> 
    <span id="f000568">and he passed that night in tears,</span> 
    <span id="f000569">and in remorseful grief,</span> 
    <span id="f000570">at the tomb which Leonato had erected for Hero.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000571">When the morning came,</span> 
    <span id="f000572">the prince accompanied Claudio to the church,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">where the good friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">and Leonato and his niece,</span> 
    <span id="f000575">were already assembled,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">to celebrate a second nuptial;</span> 
    <span id="f000577">and Leonato presented to Claudio his promised bride;</span> 
    <span id="f000578">and she wore a mask,</span> 
    <span id="f000579">that Claudio might not discover her face.</span> 
    <span id="f000580">And Claudio said to the lady in the mask:</span> 
    <span id="f000581">«Give me your hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000582">before this holy friar;</span> 
    <span id="f000583">I am your husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000584">if you will marry me.» «And when I lived I was your other wife,» said this unknown lady;</span> 
    <span id="f000585">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000586">taking off her mask,</span> 
    <span id="f000587">she proved to be no niece (as was pretended),</span> 
    <span id="f000588">but Leonato’s very daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000589">the lady Hero herself.</span> 
    <span id="f000590">We may be sure that this proved a most agreeable surprise to Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000591">who thought her dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000592">so that he could scarcely for joy believe his eyes;</span> 
    <span id="f000593">and the prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000594">who was equally amazed at what he saw,</span> 
    <span id="f000595">exclaimed:</span> 
    <span id="f000596">«Is not this Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000597">Hero that was dead?» Leonato replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000598">«She died,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">but while her slander lived.» The friar promised them an explanation of this seeming miracle,</span> 
    <span id="f000601">after the ceremony was ended;</span> 
    <span id="f000602">and was proceeding to marry them,</span> 
    <span id="f000603">when he was interrupted by Benedick,</span> 
    <span id="f000604">who desired to be married at the same time to Beatrice.</span> 
    <span id="f000605">Beatrice making some demur to this match,</span> 
    <span id="f000606">and Benedick challenging her with her love for him,</span> 
    <span id="f000607">which he had learned from Hero,</span> 
    <span id="f000608">a pleasant explanation took place;</span> 
    <span id="f000609">and they found they had both been tricked into a belief of love,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">which had never existed,</span> 
    <span id="f000611">and had become lovers in truth by the power of a false jest:</span> 
    <span id="f000612">but the affection,</span> 
    <span id="f000613">which a merry invention had cheated them into,</span> 
    <span id="f000614">was grown too powerful to be shaken by a serious explanation;</span> 
    <span id="f000615">and since Benedick proposed to marry,</span> 
    <span id="f000616">he was resolved to think nothing to the purpose that the world could say against it;</span> 
    <span id="f000617">and he merrily kept up the jest,</span> 
    <span id="f000618">and swore to Beatrice,</span> 
    <span id="f000619">that he took her but for pity,</span> 
    <span id="f000620">and because he heard she was dying of love for him;</span> 
    <span id="f000621">and Beatrice protested,</span> 
    <span id="f000622">that she yielded but upon great persuasion,</span> 
    <span id="f000623">and partly to save his life,</span> 
    <span id="f000624">for she heard he was m a consumption.</span> 
    <span id="f000625">So these two mad wits were reconciled,</span> 
    <span id="f000626">and made a match of it,</span> 
    <span id="f000627">after Claudio and Hero were married;</span> 
    <span id="f000628">and to complete the history,</span> 
    <span id="f000629">Don John,</span> 
    <span id="f000630">the contriver of the villany,</span> 
    <span id="f000631">was taken in his flight,</span> 
    <span id="f000632">and brought back to Messina;</span> 
    <span id="f000633">and a brave punishment it was to this gloomy,</span> 
    <span id="f000634">discontented man,</span> 
    <span id="f000635">to see the joy and feastings which,</span> 
    <span id="f000636">by the disappointment of his plots,</span> 
    <span id="f000637">took place in the palace in Messina.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>