<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">The Two Gentlemen of Verona</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">There lived in the city of Verona two young gentlemen,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">whose names were Valentine and Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">between whom a firm and uninterrupted friendship had long subsisted.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">They pursued their studies together,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">and their hours of leisure were always passed in each other’s company,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">except when Proteus visited a lady he was in love with;</span> 
    <span id="f000008">and these visits to his mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and this passion of Proteus for the fair Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">were the only topics on which these two friends disagreed;</span> 
    <span id="f000011">for Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">not being himself a lover,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">was sometimes a little weary of hearing his friend for ever talking of his Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">and then he would laugh at Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">and in pleasant terms ridicule the passion of love,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">and declare that no such idle fancies should ever enter his head,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">greatly preferring (as he said) the free and happy life he led,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">to the anxious hopes and fears of the lover Proteus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000019">One morning Valentine came to Proteus to tell him that they must for a time be separated,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">for that he was going to Milan.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">unwilling to part with his friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">used many arguments to prevail upon Valentine not to leave him:</span> 
    <span id="f000024">but Valentine said:</span> 
    <span id="f000025">«Cease to persuade me,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">my loving Proteus.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">I will not,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">like a sluggard,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">wear out my youth in idleness at home.</span> 
    <span id="f000030">Home-keeping youths have ever homely wits.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">If your affection were not chained to the sweet glances of your honoured Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">I would entreat you to accompany me,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">to see the wonders of the world abroad;</span> 
    <span id="f000034">but since you are a lover,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">love on still,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">and may your love be prosperous!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000037">They parted with mutual expressions of unalterable friendship.</span> 
    <span id="f000038">«Sweet Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">adieu!» said Proteus;</span> 
    <span id="f000040">«think on me,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">when you see some rare object worthy of notice in your travels,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and wish me partaker of your happiness.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">Valentine began his journey that same day towards Milan;</span> 
    <span id="f000044">and when his friend had left him,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">Proteus sat down to write a letter to Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">which he gave to her maid Lucetta to deliver to her mistress.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000047">Julia loved Proteus as well as he did her,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">but she was a lady of a noble spirit,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">and she thought it did not become her maiden dignity too easily to be won;</span> 
    <span id="f000050">therefore she affected to be insensible of his passion,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">and gave him much uneasiness in the prosecution of his suit.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000052">And when Lucetta offered the letter to Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">she would not receive it,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">and chid her maid for taking letters from Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">and ordered her to leave the room.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">But she so much wished to see what was written in the letter,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">that she soon called in her maid again;</span> 
    <span id="f000058">and when Lucetta returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000060">«What o’clock is it?» Lucetta,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">who knew her mistress more desired to see the letter than to know the time of day,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">without answering her question,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">again offered the rejected letter.</span> 
    <span id="f000064">Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">angry that her maid should thus take the liberty of seeming to know what she really wanted,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">tore the letter in pieces,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">and threw it on the floor,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">ordering her maid once more out of the room.</span> 
    <span id="f000069">As Lucetta was retiring,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">she stopped to pick up the fragments of the torn letter;</span> 
    <span id="f000071">but Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">who meant not so to part with them,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">said,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">in pretended anger:</span> 
    <span id="f000075">«Go,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">get you gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">and let the papers lie,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">you would be fingering them to anger me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000079">Julia then began to piece together as well as she could the torn fragments.</span> 
    <span id="f000080">She first made out these words:</span> 
    <span id="f000081">«Love-wounded Proteus»;</span> 
    <span id="f000082">and lamenting over these and such like loving words,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">which she made out though they were all torn asunder,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">or,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">she said wounded (the expression «Love-wounded Proteus» giving her that idea),</span> 
    <span id="f000086">she talked to these kind words,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">telling them she would lodge them in her bosom as in a bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">till their wounds were healed,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">and that she would kiss each several piece,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">to make amends.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000091">In this manner she went on talking with a pretty ladylike childishness,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">till finding herself unable to make out the whole,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">and vexed at her own ingratitude in destroying such sweet and loving words,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">as she called them,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">she wrote a much kinder letter to Proteus than she had ever done before.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000096">Proteus was greatly delighted at receiving this favourable answer to his letter;</span> 
    <span id="f000097">and while he was reading it,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">he exclaimed:</span> 
    <span id="f000099">«Sweet love,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">sweet lines,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">sweet life!» In the midst of his raptures he was interrupted by his father.</span> 
    <span id="f000102">«How now!» said the old gentleman;</span> 
    <span id="f000103">«what letter are you reading there?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000104">«My lord,» replied Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">«it is a letter from my friend Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">at Milan.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000107">«Lend me the letter,» said his father:</span> 
    <span id="f000108">«let me see what news.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000109">«There are no news,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">my lord,» said Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">greatly alarmed,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">«but that he writes how well beloved he is of the duke of Milan,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">who daily graces him with favours;</span> 
    <span id="f000114">and how he wishes me with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">the partner of his fortune.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000116">«And how stand you affected to his wish?» asked the father.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000117">«As one relying on your lordship’s will,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">and not depending on his friendly wish,» said Proteus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000119">Now it had happened that Proteus’ father had just been talking with a friend on this very subject:</span> 
    <span id="f000120">his friend had said,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">he wondered his lordship suffered his son to spend his youth at home,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">while most men were sending their sons to seek preferment abroad;</span> 
    <span id="f000123">«some,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">«to the wars,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">to try their fortunes there,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">and some to discover islands far away,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">and some to study in foreign universities;</span> 
    <span id="f000128">and there is his companion Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">he is gone to the duke of Milan’s court.</span> 
    <span id="f000130">Your son is fit for any of these things,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">and it will be a great disadvantage to him in his riper age not to have travelled in his youth.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000132">Proteus’ father thought the advice of his friend was very good,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">and upon Proteus telling him that Valentine «wished him with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">the partner of his fortune,» he at once determined to send his son to Milan;</span> 
    <span id="f000135">and without giving Proteus any reason for this sudden resolution,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">it being the usual habit of this positive old gentleman to command his son,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">not reason with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000139">«My will is the same as Valentine’s wish»;</span> 
    <span id="f000140">and seeing his son look astonished,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">he added:</span> 
    <span id="f000142">«Look not amazed,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">that I so suddenly resolve you shall spend some time in the duke of Milan’s court;</span> 
    <span id="f000144">for what I will I will,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">and there is an end.</span> 
    <span id="f000146">To-morrow be in readiness to go.</span> 
    <span id="f000147">Make no excuses;</span> 
    <span id="f000148">for I am peremptory.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000149">Proteus knew it was of no use to make objections to his father,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">who never suffered him to dispute his will;</span> 
    <span id="f000151">and he blamed himself for telling his father an untruth about Julia’s letter,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">which had brought upon him the sad necessity of leaving her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">Now that Julia found she was going to lose Proteus for so long a time,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">she no longer pretended indifference;</span> 
    <span id="f000155">and they bade each other a mournful farewell,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">with many vows of love and constancy.</span> 
    <span id="f000157">Proteus and Julia exchanged rings,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">which they both promised to keep for ever in remembrance of each other;</span> 
    <span id="f000159">and thus,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">taking a sorrowful leave,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">Proteus set out on his journey to Milan,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">the abode of his friend Valentine.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000163">Valentine was in reality what Proteus had feigned to his father,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">in high favour with the duke of Milan;</span> 
    <span id="f000165">and another event had happened to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">of which Proteus did not even dream,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">for Valentine had given up the freedom of which he used so much to boast,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">and was become as passionate a lover as Proteus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000169">She who had wrought this wondrous change in Valentine was the lady Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">daughter of the duke of Milan,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">and she also loved him;</span> 
    <span id="f000172">but they concealed their love from the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">because although he showed much kindness for Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">and invited him every day to his palace,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">yet he designed to marry his daughter to a young courtier whose name was Thurio.</span> 
    <span id="f000176">Silvia despised this Thurio,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">for he had none of the fine sense and excellent qualities of Valentine.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">These two rivals,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">Thurio and Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">were one day on a visit to Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">and Valentine was entertaining Silvia with turning everything Thurio said into ridicule,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">when the duke himself entered the room,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">and told Valentine the welcome news of his friend Proteus’ arrival.</span> 
    <span id="f000184">Valentine said:</span> 
    <span id="f000185">«If I had wished a thing,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">it would have been to have seen him here!» And then he highly praised Proteus to the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000188">«My lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">though I have been a truant of my time,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">yet hath my friend made use and fair advantage of his days,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">and is complete in person and in mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">in all good grace to grace a gentleman.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000193">«Welcome him then according to his worth,» said the duke.</span> 
    <span id="f000194">«Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">I speak to you,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">and you,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">Sir Thurio;</span> 
    <span id="f000198">for Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">I need not bid him do so.» They were here interrupted by the entrance of Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">and Valentine introduced him to Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000202">«Sweet lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">entertain him to be my fellow-servant to your ladyship.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000204">When Valentine and Proteus had ended their visit,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">and were alone together,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">Valentine said:</span> 
    <span id="f000207">«Now tell me how all does from whence you came?</span> 
    <span id="f000208">How does your lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">and how thrives your love?» Proteus replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000210">«My tales of love used to weary you.</span> 
    <span id="f000211">I know you joy not in a love discourse.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000212">«Ay,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">Proteus,» returned Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">«but that life is altered now.</span> 
    <span id="f000215">I have done penance for condemning love.</span> 
    <span id="f000216">For in revenge of my contempt of love,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">love has chased sleep from my enthralled eyes.</span> 
    <span id="f000218">O gentle Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">Love is a mighty lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">and hath so humbled me,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">that I confess there is no woe like his correction,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">nor so such joy on earth as in his service.</span> 
    <span id="f000223">I now like no discourse except it be of love.</span> 
    <span id="f000224">Now I can break my fast,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">dine,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">sup,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">and sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">upon the very name of love.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000229">This acknowledgment of the change which love had made in the disposition of Valentine was a great triumph to his friend Proteus.</span> 
    <span id="f000230">But «friend» Proteus must be called no longer,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">for the same all-powerful deity Love,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">of whom they were speaking (yea,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">even while they were talking of the change he had made in Valentine),</span> 
    <span id="f000234">was working in the heart of Proteus;</span> 
    <span id="f000235">and he,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">who had till this time been a pattern of true love and perfect friendship,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">was now,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">in one short interview with Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">become a false friend and a faithless lover;</span> 
    <span id="f000240">for at the first sight of Silvia all his love for Julia vanished away like a dream,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">nor did his long friendship for Valentine deter him from endeavouring to supplant him in her affections;</span> 
    <span id="f000242">and although,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">as it will always be,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">when people of dispositions naturally good become unjust,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">he had many scruples before he determined to forsake Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">and become the rival of Valentine;</span> 
    <span id="f000247">yet he at length overcame his sense of duty,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">and yielded himself up,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">almost without remorse,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">to his new unhappy passion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000251">Valentine imparted to him in confidence the whole history of his love,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">and how carefully they had concealed it from the duke her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">and told him,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">that,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">despairing of ever being able to obtain his consent,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">he had prevailed upon Silvia to leave her father’s palace that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">and go with him to Mantua;</span> 
    <span id="f000258">then he showed Proteus a ladder of ropes,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">by help of which he meant to assist Silvia to get out of one of the windows of the palace after it was dark.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000260">Upon hearing this faithful recital of his friend’s dearest secrets,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">it is hardly possible to be believed,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">but so it was,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">that Proteus resolved to go to the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">and disclose the whole to him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000265">This false friend began his tale with many artful speeches to the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">such as that by the laws of friendship he ought to conceal what he was going to reveal,</span> 
    <span id="f000267">but that the gracious favour the duke had shown him,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">and the duty he owed his grace,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">urged him to tell that which else no worldly good should draw from him.</span> 
    <span id="f000270">He then told all he had heard from Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">not omitting the ladder of ropes,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">and the manner in which Valentine meant to conceal them under a long cloak.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000273">The duke thought Proteus quite a miracle of integrity,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">in that he preferred telling his friend’s intention rather than he would conceal an unjust action,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">highly commended him,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">and promised him not to let Valentine know from whom he had learnt this intelligence,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">but by some artifice to make Valentine betray the secret himself.</span> 
    <span id="f000278">For this purpose the duke awaited the coming of Valentine in the evening,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">whom he soon saw hurrying towards the palace,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">and he perceived somewhat was wrapped within his cloak,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">which he concluded was the rope-ladder.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000282">The duke upon this stopped him,</span> 
    <span id="f000283">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000284">«Whither away so fast,</span> 
    <span id="f000285">Valentine?» — «May it please your grace,» said Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">«there is a messenger that stays to bear my letters to my friends,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">and I am going to deliver them.» Now this falsehood of Valentine’s had no better success in the event than the untruth Proteus told his father.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000288">«Be they of much import?» said the duke.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000289">«No more,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">my lord,» said Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">«than to tell my father I am well and happy at your grace’s court.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000292">«Nay then,» said the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">«no matter;</span> 
    <span id="f000294">stay with me a while.</span> 
    <span id="f000295">I wish your counsel about some affairs that concern me nearly.» He then told Valentine an artful story,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">as a prelude to draw his secret from him,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">saying that Valentine knew he wished to match his daughter with Thurio,</span> 
    <span id="f000298">but that she was stubborn and disobedient to his commands,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">«neither regarding,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">«that she is my child,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">nor fearing me as if I were her father.</span> 
    <span id="f000302">And I may say to thee,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">this pride of hers has drawn my love from her.</span> 
    <span id="f000304">I had thought my age should have been cherished by her childlike duty.</span> 
    <span id="f000305">I now am resolved to take a wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">and turn her out to whosoever will take her in.</span> 
    <span id="f000307">Let her beauty be her wedding dower,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">for me and my possessions she esteems not.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000309">Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">wondering where all this would end,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">made answer:</span> 
    <span id="f000312">«And what would your grace have me do in all this?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000313">«Why,» said the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">«the lady I would wish to marry is nice and coy,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">and does not much esteem my aged eloquence.</span> 
    <span id="f000316">Besides,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">the fashion of courtship is much changed since I was young;</span> 
    <span id="f000318">now I would willingly have you to be my tutor to instruct me how I am to woo.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000319">Valentine gave him a general idea of the modes of courtship then practiced by young men,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">when they wished to win a fair lady’s love,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">such as presents,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">frequent visits,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">and the like.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000324">The duke replied to this,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">that the lady did refuse a present which he sent her,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">and that she was so strictly kept by her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">that no man might have access to her by day.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000328">«Why then,» said Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">«you must visit her by night.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000330">«But at night,» said the artful duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">who was now coming to the drift of his discourse,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">«her doors are fast locked.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000333">Valentine then unfortunately proposed that the duke should go into the lady’s chamber at night by means of a ladder of ropes,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">saying he would procure him one tatting for that purpose;</span> 
    <span id="f000335">and in conclusion advised him to conceal this ladder of ropes under such a cloak as that which he now wore.</span> 
    <span id="f000336">«Lend me your cloak,» said the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">who had feigned this long story on purpose to have a presence to get off the cloak;</span> 
    <span id="f000338">so upon saying these words,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">he caught hold of Valentine’s cloak,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">and throwing it back,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">he discovered not only the ladder of ropes,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">but also a letter of Silvia’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">which he instantly opened and read;</span> 
    <span id="f000344">and this letter contained a full account of their intended elopement.</span> 
    <span id="f000345">The duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">after upbraiding Valentine for his ingratitude in thus returning the favour he had shown him,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">by endeavouring to steal away his daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">banished him from the court and city of Milan for ever;</span> 
    <span id="f000349">and Valentine was forced to depart that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">without even seeing Silvia.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000351">While Proteus at Milan was thus injuring Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">Julia at Verona was regretting the absence of Proteus;</span> 
    <span id="f000353">and her regard for him at last so far overcame her sense of propriety,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">that she resolved to leave Verona,</span> 
    <span id="f000355">and seek her lover at Milan;</span> 
    <span id="f000356">and to secure herself from danger on the road,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">she dressed her maiden Lucetta and herself in men’s clothes,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">and they set out in this disguise,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">and arrived at Milan soon after Valentine was banished from that city through the treachery of Proteus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000360">Julia entered Milan about noon,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">and she took up her abode at an inn;</span> 
    <span id="f000362">and her thoughts being all on her dear Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">she entered into conversation with the innkeeper,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">or host,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">as he was called,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">thinking by that means to learn some news of Proteus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000367">The host was greatly pleased that this handsome young gentleman (as he took her to be),</span> 
    <span id="f000368">who from his appearance he concluded was of high rank,</span> 
    <span id="f000369">spoke so familiarly to him;</span> 
    <span id="f000370">and being a good-natured man,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">he was sorry to see him look so melancholy;</span> 
    <span id="f000372">and to amuse his young guest,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">he offered to take him to hear some fine music,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">with which,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">a gentleman that evening was going to serenade his mistress.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000377">The reason Julia looked so very melancholy was,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">that she did not well know what Proteus would think of the imprudent step she had taken;</span> 
    <span id="f000379">for she knew he had loved her for her noble maiden pride and dignity of character,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">and she feared she should lower herself in his esteem:</span> 
    <span id="f000381">and this it was that made her wear a sad and thoughtful countenance.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000382">She gladly accepted the offer of the host to go with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">and hear the music;</span> 
    <span id="f000384">for she secretly hoped she might meet Proteus by the way.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000385">But when she came to the palace whither the host conducted her,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">a very different effect was produced to what the kind host intended;</span> 
    <span id="f000387">for there,</span> 
    <span id="f000388">to her heart’s sorrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">she beheld her lover,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">the inconstant Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">serenading the lady Silvia with music,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">and addressing discourse of love and admiration to her.</span> 
    <span id="f000393">And Julia overheard Silvia from a window talk with Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">and reproach him for forsaking his own true lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">and for his ingratitude to his friend Valentine;</span> 
    <span id="f000396">and then Silvia left the window,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">not choosing to listen to his music and his fine speeches;</span> 
    <span id="f000398">for she was a faithful lady to her banished Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">and abhorred the ungenerous conduct of his false friend Proteus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000400">Though Julia was in despair at what she had just witnessed,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">yet did she still love the truant Proteus;</span> 
    <span id="f000402">and hearing that he had lately parted with a servant,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">she contrived with the assistance of her host,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">the friendly innkeeper,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">to hire herself to Proteus as a page;</span> 
    <span id="f000406">and Proteus knew not she was Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">and he sent her with letters and presents to her rival Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">and he even sent by her the very ring she gave him as a parting gift at Verona.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000409">When she went to that lady with the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">she was most glad to find that Silvia utterly rejected the suit of Proteus;</span> 
    <span id="f000411">and Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">or the page Sebastian as she was called,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">entered into conversation with Silvia about Proteus’ first love,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">the forsaken lady Julia.</span> 
    <span id="f000415">She putting in (as one may say) a good word for herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">said she knew Julia;</span> 
    <span id="f000417">as well she might,</span> 
    <span id="f000418">being herself the Julia of whom she spoke;</span> 
    <span id="f000419">telling how fondly Julia loved her master Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">and how his unkind neglect would grieve her:</span> 
    <span id="f000421">and then she with a pretty equivocation went on:</span> 
    <span id="f000422">«Julia is about my height,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">and of my complexion,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">the colour of her eyes and hair the same as mine»:</span> 
    <span id="f000425">and indeed Julia looked a most beautiful youth in her boy’s attire.</span> 
    <span id="f000426">Silvia was moved to pity this lovely lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000427">who was so sadly forsaken by the man she loved;</span> 
    <span id="f000428">and when Julia offered the ring which Proteus had sent,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">refused it,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000431">«The more shame for him that he sends me that ring;</span> 
    <span id="f000432">I will not take it;</span> 
    <span id="f000433">for I have often heard him say his Julia gave it to him.</span> 
    <span id="f000434">I love thee,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">gentle youth,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">for pitying her,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">poor lady!</span> 
    <span id="f000438">Here is a purse;</span> 
    <span id="f000439">I give it you for Julia’s sake.» These comfortable words coming from her kind rival’s tongue cheered the drooping heart of the disguised lady.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000440">But to return to the banished Valentine;</span> 
    <span id="f000441">who scarce knew which way to bend his course,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">being unwilling to return home to his father a disgraced and banished man:</span> 
    <span id="f000443">as he was wandering over a lonely forest,</span> 
    <span id="f000444">not far distant from Milan,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">where he had left his heart’s dear treasure,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">the lady Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">he was set upon by robbers,</span> 
    <span id="f000448">who demanded his money.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000449">Valentine told them that he was a man crossed by adversity,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">that he was going into banishment,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">and that he had no money,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">the clothes he had on being all his riches.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000453">The robbers,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">hearing that he was a distressed man,</span> 
    <span id="f000455">and being struck with his noble air and manly behaviour,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">told him if he would live with them,</span> 
    <span id="f000457">and be their chief,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">or captain,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">they would put themselves under his command;</span> 
    <span id="f000460">but that if he refused to accept their offer,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">they would kill him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000462">Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000463">who cared little what became of himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">said he would consent to live with them and be their captain,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">provided they did no outrage on women or poor passengers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000466">Thus the noble Valentine became,</span> 
    <span id="f000467">like Robin Hood,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">of whom we read in ballads,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">a captain of robbers and outlawed banditti;</span> 
    <span id="f000470">and in this situation he was found by Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">and in this manner it came to pass.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000472">Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">to avoid a marriage with Thurio,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">whom her father insisted upon her no longer refusing,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">came at last to the resolution of following Valentine to Mantua,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">at which place she had heard her lover had taken refuge;</span> 
    <span id="f000477">but in this account she was misinformed,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">for he still lived in the forest among the robbers,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">bearing the name of their captain,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">but taking no part in their depredations,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">and using the authority which they had imposed upon him in no other way than to compel them to show compassion to the travellers they robbed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000482">Silvia contrived to effect her escape from her father’s palace in company with a worthy old gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">whose name was Eglamour,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">whom she took along with her for protection on the road.</span> 
    <span id="f000485">She had to pass through the forest where Valentine and the banditti dwelt;</span> 
    <span id="f000486">and one of these robbers seized on Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">and would also have taken Eglamour,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">but he escaped.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000489">The robber who had taken Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">seeing the terror ;he was in,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">bid her not be alarmed,</span> 
    <span id="f000492">for that he was only going to carry her to a cave where his captain lived,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">and that she need not be afraid,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">for their captain had an honourable mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">and always showed humanity to women.</span> 
    <span id="f000496">Silvia found little comfort in hearing she was going to be carried as a prisoner before the captain of a lawless banditti.</span> 
    <span id="f000497">«O Valentine,» she cried,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">«this I endure for thee!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000499">But as the robber was conveying her to the cave of his captain,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">he was stopped by Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">still attended by Julia in the disguise of a page,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">having heard of the flight of Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">had traced her steps to this forest.</span> 
    <span id="f000505">Proteus now rescued her from the hands of the robber;</span> 
    <span id="f000506">but scarce had she time to thank him for the service he had done her,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">before he began to distress her afresh with his love suit;</span> 
    <span id="f000508">and while he was rudely pressing her to consent to marry him,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">and his page (the forlorn Julia) was standing beside him in great anxiety of mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">fearing lest the great service which Proteus had just done to Silvia should win her to show him some favour,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">they were all strangely surprised with the sudden appearance of Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">having heard his robbers had taken a lady prisoner,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">came to console and relieve her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000515">Proteus was courting Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">and he was so much ashamed of being caught by his friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000517">that he was all at once seized with penitence and remorse;</span> 
    <span id="f000518">and he expressed such a lively sorrow for the injuries he had done to Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">that Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">whose nature was noble and generous,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">even to a romantic degree,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">not only forgave and restored him to his former place in his friendship,</span> 
    <span id="f000523">but in a sudden flight of heroism he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000524">«I freely do forgive you;</span> 
    <span id="f000525">and all the interest I have in Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">I give it up to you.» Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">who was standing beside her master as a page,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">hearing this strange offer,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">and fearing Proteus would not be able with this new-found virtue to refuse Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">fainted,</span> 
    <span id="f000531">and they were all employed in recovering her:</span> 
    <span id="f000532">else would Silvia have been offended at being thus made over to Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">though she could scarcely think that Valentine would long persevere in this overstrained and too generous act of friendship.</span> 
    <span id="f000534">When Julia recovered from the fainting kit,</span> 
    <span id="f000535">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000536">«I had forgot,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">my master ordered me to deliver this ring to Silvia.» Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">looking upon the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">saw that it was the one he gave to Julia,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">in return for that which he received from her,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">and which he had sent by the supposed page to Silvia.</span> 
    <span id="f000542">«How is this?» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000543">«this is Julia’s ring:</span> 
    <span id="f000544">how came you by it,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">boy?» Julia answered:</span> 
    <span id="f000546">«Julia herself did give it me,</span> 
    <span id="f000547">and Julia herself hath brought it hither.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000548">Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">now looking earnestly upon her,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">plainly perceived that the page Sebastian was no other than the lady Julia herself;</span> 
    <span id="f000551">and the proof she had given of her constancy and true love so wrought in him,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">that his love for her returned into his heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">and he took again his own dear lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">and joyfully resigned all pretensions to the lady Silvia to Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">who had so well deserved her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000556">Proteus and Valentine were expressing their happiness in their reconciliation,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">and in the love of their faithful ladies when they were surprised with the sight of the duke of Milan and Thurio,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">who came there in pursuit of Silvia.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000559">Thurio first approached,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">and attempted to seize Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000562">«Silvia is mine.» Upon this Valentine said to him in a very spirited manner:</span> 
    <span id="f000563">«Thurio,</span> 
    <span id="f000564">keep back:</span> 
    <span id="f000565">if once again you say that Silvia is yours,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">you shall embrace your death.</span> 
    <span id="f000567">Here she stands,</span> 
    <span id="f000568">take but possession of her with a torch!</span> 
    <span id="f000569">I dare you but to breathe upon my love.» Hearing this threat,</span> 
    <span id="f000570">Thurio,</span> 
    <span id="f000571">who was a great coward,</span> 
    <span id="f000572">drew back,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">and said he cared not for her,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">and that none but a fool would fight for a girl who loved him not.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000575">The duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">who was a very brave man himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000577">said now in great anger:</span> 
    <span id="f000578">«The more base and degenerate in you to take such means for her as you have done,</span> 
    <span id="f000579">and leave her on such slight conditions.» Then turning to Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000581">«I do applaud your spirit Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000582">and think you worthy of an empress’s love.</span> 
    <span id="f000583">You shall have Silvia,</span> 
    <span id="f000584">for you have well deserved her.» Valentine then with great humility kissed the duke’s hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000585">and accepted the noble present which he had made him of his daughter with becoming thankfulness:</span> 
    <span id="f000586">taking occasion of this joyful minute to entreat the good-humoured duke to pardon the thieves with whom he had associated in the forest,</span> 
    <span id="f000587">assuring him,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">that when reformed and restored to society,</span> 
    <span id="f000589">there would be found among them many good,</span> 
    <span id="f000590">and ht for great employment;</span> 
    <span id="f000591">for the most of them had been banished,</span> 
    <span id="f000592">like Valentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000593">for state offences,</span> 
    <span id="f000594">rather than for any black crimes they had been guilty of.</span> 
    <span id="f000595">To this the ready duke consented:</span> 
    <span id="f000596">and now nothing remained but that Proteus,</span> 
    <span id="f000597">the false friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000598">was ordained,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">by way of penance for his love-prompted faults,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">to be present at the recital of the whole story of his loves and falsehoods before the duke;</span> 
    <span id="f000601">and the shame of the recital to his awakened conscience was judged sufficient punishment:</span> 
    <span id="f000602">which being done,</span> 
    <span id="f000603">the lovers,</span> 
    <span id="f000604">all four,</span> 
    <span id="f000605">returned back to Milan,</span> 
    <span id="f000606">and their nuptials were solemnized in the presence of the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000607">with high triumphs and feasting.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>