<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">The Merchant of Venice</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">the Jew,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">lived at Venice:</span> 
    <span id="f000005">he was an usurer,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">who had amassed an immense fortune by lending money at great interest to Christian merchants.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">being a hard-hearted man,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">exacted the payment of the money he lent with such severity that he was much disliked by all good men,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and particularly by Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">a young merchant of Venice;</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and Shylock as much hated Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">because he used to lend money to people in distress,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">and would never take any interest for the money he lent;</span> 
    <span id="f000015">therefore there was great enmity between this covetous Jew and the generous merchant Antonio.</span> 
    <span id="f000016">Whenever Antonio met Shylock on the Rialto (or Exchange),</span> 
    <span id="f000017">he used to reproach him with his usuries and hard dealings,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">which the Jew would bear with seeming patience,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">while he secretly meditated revenge.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000020">Antonio was the kindest man that lived,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">the best conditioned,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">and had the most unwearied spirit in doing courtesies;</span> 
    <span id="f000023">indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">he was one in whom the ancient Roman honour more appeared than in any that drew breath in Italy.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">He was greatly beloved by all his fellow-citizens;</span> 
    <span id="f000026">but the friend who was nearest and dearest to his heart was Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">a noble Venetian,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">having but a small patrimony,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">had nearly exhausted his little fortune by living in too expensive a manner for his slender means,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">as young men of high rank with small fortunes are too apt to do.</span> 
    <span id="f000032">Whenever Bassanio wanted money,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">Antonio assisted him;</span> 
    <span id="f000034">and it seemed as if they had but one heart and one purse between them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000035">One day Bassanio came to Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">and told him that he wished to repair his fortune by a wealthy marriage with a lady whom he dearly loved,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">whose father,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">that was lately dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">had left her sole heiress to a large estate;</span> 
    <span id="f000040">and that in her father’s lifetime he used to visit at her house,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">when he thought he had observed this lady had sometimes from her eyes sent speechless messages,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">that seemed to say he would be no unwelcome suitor;</span> 
    <span id="f000043">but not having money to furnish himself with an appearance befitting the lover of so rich an heiress,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">he besought Antonio to add to the many favours he had shown him,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">by lending him three thousand ducats.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000046">Antonio had no money by him at that time to lend his friend;</span> 
    <span id="f000047">but expecting soon to have some ships come home laden with merchandise,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">he said he would go to Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">the rich money-lender,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">and borrow the money upon the credit of those ships.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000051">Antonio and Bassanio went together to Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">and Antonio asked the Jew to lend him three thousand ducats upon any interest he should require,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">to be paid out of the merchandise contained in his ships at sea.</span> 
    <span id="f000054">On this,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">Shylock thought within himself:</span> 
    <span id="f000056">«If I can once catch him on the hip,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him;</span> 
    <span id="f000058">he hates our Jewish nation;</span> 
    <span id="f000059">he lends out money gratis,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">and among merchants he rails at me and my well-earned bargains,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">which he calls interest.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">Cursed be my tribe if I forgive him!» Antonio finding he was musing within himself and did not answer,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">and being impatient for the money,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000065">«Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">do you hear?</span> 
    <span id="f000067">will you lend the money?» To this question the Jew replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000068">«Signior Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">on the Rialto many a time and often you have railed at me about my monies and my usuries,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">and I have borne it with a patient shrug,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">for sufferance is the badge of all our tribe;</span> 
    <span id="f000072">and then you have called me unbeliever,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">cut-throat dog,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">and spit upon my Jewish garments,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">and spurned at me with your foot,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">as if I was a cur.</span> 
    <span id="f000077">Well then,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">it now appears you need my help;</span> 
    <span id="f000079">and you come to me,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and say,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">lend me monies.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">Has a dog money?</span> 
    <span id="f000084">Is it possible a cur should lend three thousand ducats?</span> 
    <span id="f000085">Shall I bend low and say,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">Fair sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">you spit upon me on Wednesday last,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">another time you called me dog,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">and for these courtesies I am to lend you monies.» Antonio replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000090">«I am as like to call you so again,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">to spit on you again,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">and spurn you too.</span> 
    <span id="f000093">If you will lend me this money,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">lend it not to me as to a friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">but rather lend it to me as to an enemy,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">that,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">if I break,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">you may with better face exact the penalty.» «Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">look you,» said Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">«how you storm!</span> 
    <span id="f000101">I would be friends with you,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">and have your love.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">I will forget the shames you have put upon me.</span> 
    <span id="f000104">I will supply your wants,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">and take no interest for my money.» This seemingly kind offer greatly surprised Antonio;</span> 
    <span id="f000106">and then Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">still pretending kindness,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">and that all he did was to gain Antonio’s love,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">again said he would lend him the three thousand ducats,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">and take no interest for his money;</span> 
    <span id="f000111">only Antonio should go with him to a lawyer,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">and there sign in merry sport a bond,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">that if he did not repay the money by a certain day,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">he would forfeit a pound of flesh,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">to be cut off from any part of his body that Shylock pleased.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000116">«Content,» said Antonio:</span> 
    <span id="f000117">«I will sign to this bond,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">and say there is much kindness in the Jew.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000119">Bassanio said Antonio should not sign to such a bond for him;</span> 
    <span id="f000120">but still Antonio insisted that he would sign it,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">for that before the day of payment came,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">his ships would return laden with many times the value of the money.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">hearing this debate,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">exclaimed:</span> 
    <span id="f000126">«O,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">father Abraham,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">what suspicious people these Christians are!</span> 
    <span id="f000129">Their own hard dealings teach them to suspect the thoughts of others.</span> 
    <span id="f000130">I pray you tell me this,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">Bassanio:</span> 
    <span id="f000132">if he should break this day,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">what should I gain by the exaction of the forfeiture?</span> 
    <span id="f000134">A pound of man’s flesh,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">taken from a man,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">is not so estimable,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">nor profitable neither,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">as the flesh of mutton or beef.</span> 
    <span id="f000139">I say,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">to buy his favour I offer this friendship:</span> 
    <span id="f000141">if he will take it,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">so;</span> 
    <span id="f000143">if not,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">adieu.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000145">At last,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">against the advice of Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">notwithstanding all the Jew had said of his kind intentions,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">did not like his friend should run the hazard of this shocking penalty for his sake,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">Antonio signed the bond,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">thinking it really was (as the Jew said) merely in sport.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000152">The rich heiress that Bassanio wished to marry lived near Venice,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">at a place called Belmont:</span> 
    <span id="f000154">her name was Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">and in the graces of her person and her mind she was nothing inferior to that Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">of whom we read,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">who was Cato’s daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">and the wife of Brutus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000159">Bassanio being so kindly supplied with money by his friend Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">at the hazard of his life,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">set out for Belmont with a splendid train,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">and attended by a gentleman of the name of Gratiano.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000163">Bassanio proving successful in his suit,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">Portia in a short time consented to accept of him for a husband.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000165">Bassanio confessed to Portia that he had no fortune,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">and that his high birth and noble ancestry was all that he could boast of;</span> 
    <span id="f000167">she,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">who loved him for his worthy qualities,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">and had riches enough not to regard wealth in a husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">answered with a graceful modesty,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">that she would wish herself a thousand times more fair,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">and ten thousand times more rich,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">to be more worthy of him;</span> 
    <span id="f000174">and then the accomplished Portia prettily dispraised herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">and said she was an unlessoned girl,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">unschooled,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">unpractised,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">yet not so old but that she could learn,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">and that she would commit her gentle spirit to be directed and governed by him in all things;</span> 
    <span id="f000180">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000181">«Myself and what is mine,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">to you and yours is now converted.</span> 
    <span id="f000183">But yesterday,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">I was the lady of this fair mansion,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">queen of myself,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">and mistress over these servants;</span> 
    <span id="f000188">and now this house,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">these servants,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">and myself,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">are yours,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">my lord;</span> 
    <span id="f000193">I give them with this ring»;</span> 
    <span id="f000194">presenting a ring to Bassanio.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000195">Bassanio was so overpowered with gratitude and wonder at the gracious manner in which the rich and noble Portia accepted of a man of his humble fortunes,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">that he could not express his joy and reverence to the dear lady who so honoured him,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">by anything but broken words of love and thankfulness;</span> 
    <span id="f000198">and taking the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">he vowed never to part with it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000200">Gratiano and Nerissa,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">Portia’s waiting-maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">were in attendance upon their lord and lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">when Portia so gracefully promised to become the obedient wife of Bassanio;</span> 
    <span id="f000204">and Gratiano,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">wishing Bassanio and the generous lady joy,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">desired permission to be married at the same time.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000207">«With all my heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">Gratiano,» said Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">«if you can get a wife.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000210">Gratiano then said that he loved the lady Portia’s fair waiting gentlewoman Nerissa,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">and that she had promised to be his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">if her lady married Bassanio.</span> 
    <span id="f000213">Portia asked Nerissa if this was true.</span> 
    <span id="f000214">Nerissa replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000215">«Madam,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">it is so,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">if you approve of it.» Portia willingly consenting,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">Bassanio pleasantly said:</span> 
    <span id="f000219">«Then our wedding-feast shall be much honoured by your marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">Gratiano.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000221">The happiness of these lovers was sadly crossed at this moment by the entrance of a messenger,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">who brought a letter from Antonio containing fearful tidings.</span> 
    <span id="f000223">When Bassanio read Antonio’s letter,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">Portia feared it was to tell him of the death of some dear friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">he looked so pale;</span> 
    <span id="f000226">and inquiring what was the news which had so distressed him,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000228">«O sweet Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">here are a few of the unpleasantest words that ever blotted paper;</span> 
    <span id="f000230">gentle lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">when I first imparted my love to you,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">I freely told you all the wealth I had ran in my veins;</span> 
    <span id="f000233">but I should have told you that I had less than nothing,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">being in debt.» Bassanio then told Portia what has been here related,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">of his borrowing the money of Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">and of Antonio’s procuring it of Shylock the Jew,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">and of the bond by which Antonio had engaged to forfeit a pound of flesh,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">if it was not repaid by a certain day:</span> 
    <span id="f000239">and then Bassanio read Antonio’s letter:</span> 
    <span id="f000240">the words of which were:</span> 
    <span id="f000241">«Sweet Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">my ships are all lost,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">my bond to the Jew is forfeited,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">and since in paying it is impossible I should live,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">I could wish to see you at my death;</span> 
    <span id="f000246">notwithstanding use your pleasure;</span> 
    <span id="f000247">if your love for me do not persuade you to come,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">let not my letter.» «O,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">my dear love,» said Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">«despatch all business,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">and begone;</span> 
    <span id="f000252">you shall have gold to pay the money twenty times over,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">before this kind friend shall lose a hair by my Bassanio’s fault;</span> 
    <span id="f000254">and as you are so dearly bought,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">I will dearly love you.» Portia then said she would be married to Bassanio before he set out,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">to give him a legal right to her money;</span> 
    <span id="f000257">and that same day they were married,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">and Gratiano was also married to Nerissa;</span> 
    <span id="f000259">and Bassanio and Gratiano,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">the instant they were married,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">set out in great haste for Venice,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">where Bassanio found Antonio in prison.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000263">The day of payment being past,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">the cruel Jew would not accept of the money which Bassanio offered him,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">but insisted upon having a pound of Antonio’s flesh.</span> 
    <span id="f000266">A day was appointed to try this shocking cause before the duke of Venice,</span> 
    <span id="f000267">and Bassanio awaited in dreadful suspense the event of the trial.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000268">When Portia parted with her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">she spoke cheeringly to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">and bade him bring his dear friend along with him when he returned;</span> 
    <span id="f000271">yet she feared it would go hard with Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">and when she was left alone,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">she began to think and consider within herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">if she could by any means be instrumental in saving the life of her dear Bassanio’s friend;</span> 
    <span id="f000275">and notwithstanding when she wished to honour her Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">she had said to him with such a meek and wifelike grace,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">that she would submit in all things to be governed by his superior wisdom,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">yet being now called forth into action by the peril of her honoured husband’s friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">she did nothing doubt her own powers,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">and by the sole guidance of her own true and perfect judgment,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">at once resolved to go herself to Venice,</span> 
    <span id="f000282">and speak in Antonio’s defence.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000283">Portia had a relation who was a counsellor in the law;</span> 
    <span id="f000284">to this gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000285">whose name was Bellario,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">she wrote,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">and stating the case to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">desired his opinion,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">and that with his advice he would also send her the dress worn by a counsellor.</span> 
    <span id="f000290">When the messenger returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">he brought letters from Bellario of advice how to proceed,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">and also everything necessary for her equipment.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000293">Portia dressed herself and her maid Nerissa in men’s apparel,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">and putting on the robes of a counsellor,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">she took Nerissa along with her as her clerk;</span> 
    <span id="f000296">and setting out immediately,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">they arrived at Venice on the very day of the trial.</span> 
    <span id="f000298">The cause was just going to be heard before the duke and senators of Venice in the senate-house,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">when Portia entered this high court of justice,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">and presented a letter from Bellario,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">in which that learned counsellor wrote to the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">he would have come himself to plead for Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">but that he was prevented by sickness,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">and he requested that the learned young doctor Balthasar (so he called Portia) might be permitted to plead in his stead.</span> 
    <span id="f000306">This the duke granted,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">much wondering at the youthful appearance of the stranger,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">who was prettily disguised by her counsellor’s robes and her large wig.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000309">And now began this important trial.</span> 
    <span id="f000310">Portia looked around her,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">and she knew the merciless Jew;</span> 
    <span id="f000312">and she saw Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">but he knew her not in her disguise.</span> 
    <span id="f000314">He was standing beside Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">in an agony of distress and fear for his friend.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000316">The importance of the arduous task Portia had engaged in gave this tender lady courage,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">and she boldly proceeded in the duty she had undertaken to perform:</span> 
    <span id="f000318">and first of all she addressed herself to Shylock;</span> 
    <span id="f000319">and allowing that he had a right by the Venetian law to have the forfeit expressed in the bond,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">she spoke so sweetly of the noble quality of mercy,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">as would have softened any heart but the unfeeling Shylock’s;</span> 
    <span id="f000322">saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">that it dropped as the gentle rain from heaven upon the place beneath;</span> 
    <span id="f000324">and how mercy was a double blessing,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">it blessed him that gave,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">and him that received it,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">and how it became monarchs better than their crowns,</span> 
    <span id="f000328">being an attribute of God Himself;</span> 
    <span id="f000329">and that earthly power came nearest to God’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">in proportion as mercy tempered justice;</span> 
    <span id="f000331">and she bid Shylock remember that as we all pray for mercy,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">that same prayer should teach us to show mercy.</span> 
    <span id="f000333">Shylock only answered her by desiring to have the penalty forfeited in the bond.</span> 
    <span id="f000334">«Is he not able to pay the money?» asked Portia.</span> 
    <span id="f000335">Bassanio then offered the Jew the payment of the three thousand ducats as many times over as he should desire;</span> 
    <span id="f000336">which Shylock refusing,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">and still insisting upon having a pound of Antonio’s flesh,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">Bassanio begged the learned young counsellor would endeavour to wrest the law a little,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">to save Antonio’s life.</span> 
    <span id="f000340">But Portia gravely answered,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">that laws once established must never be altered.</span> 
    <span id="f000342">Shylock hearing Portia say that the law might not be altered,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">it seemed to him that she was pleading in his favour,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000345">«A Daniel is come to judgment!</span> 
    <span id="f000346">O wise young judge,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">how I do honour you!</span> 
    <span id="f000348">How much elder are you than your looks!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000349">Portia now desired Shylock to let her look at the bond;</span> 
    <span id="f000350">and when she had read it,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000352">«This bond is forfeited,</span> 
    <span id="f000353">and by this the Jew may lawfully claim a pound of flesh,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">to be by him cut off nearest Antonio’s heart.» Then she said to Shylock:</span> 
    <span id="f000355">«Be merciful:</span> 
    <span id="f000356">take the money,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">and bid me tear the bond.» But no mercy would the cruel Shylock show;</span> 
    <span id="f000358">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000359">«By my soul I swear,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">there is no power in the tongue of men to alter me.» «Why then,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">Antonio,» said Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">«you must prepare your bosom for the knife»:</span> 
    <span id="f000363">and while Shylock was sharpening a long knife with great eagerness to cut off the pound of flesh,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">Portia said to Antonio:</span> 
    <span id="f000365">«Have you anything to say?» Antonio with a calm resignation replied,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">that he had but little to say,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">for that he had prepared his mind for death.</span> 
    <span id="f000368">Then he said to Bassanio:</span> 
    <span id="f000369">«Give me your hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">Bassanio!</span> 
    <span id="f000371">Fare you well!</span> 
    <span id="f000372">Grieve not that I am fallen into this misfortune for you.</span> 
    <span id="f000373">Commend me to your honourable wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">and tell her how I have loved you!» Bassanio in the deepest affliction replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000375">«Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">I am married to a wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">who is as dear to me as life itself;</span> 
    <span id="f000378">but life itself,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">my wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">and all the world,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">are not esteemed with me above your life;</span> 
    <span id="f000382">I would lose all,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">I would sacrifice all to this devil here,</span> 
    <span id="f000384">to deliver you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000385">Portia hearing this,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">though the kind-hearted lady was not at all offended with her husband for expressing the love he owed to so true a friend as Antonio in these strong terms,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">yet could not help answering:</span> 
    <span id="f000388">«Your wife would give you little thanks,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">if she were present,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">to hear you make this offer.» And then Gratiano,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">who loved to copy what his lord did,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">thought he must make a speech like Bassanio’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000393">and he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">in Nerissa’s hearing,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">who was writing in her clerk’s dress by the side of Portia:</span> 
    <span id="f000396">«I have a wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">whom I protest I love;</span> 
    <span id="f000398">I wish she were in heaven,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">if she could but entreat some power there to change the cruel temper of this currish Jew.» «It is well you wish this behind her back,</span> 
    <span id="f000400">else you would have but an unquiet house,» said Nerissa.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000401">Shylock now cried out impatiently:</span> 
    <span id="f000402">«We trifle time;</span> 
    <span id="f000403">I pray pronounce the sentence.» And now all was awful expectation in the court,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">and every heart was full of grief for Antonio.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000405">Portia asked if the scales were ready to weigh the flesh;</span> 
    <span id="f000406">and she said to the Jew:</span> 
    <span id="f000407">«Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">you must have some surgeon by,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">lest he bleed to death.» Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">whose whole intent was that Antonio should bleed to death,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000412">«It is not so named in the bond.» Portia replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000413">«It is not so named in the bond,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">but what of that?</span> 
    <span id="f000415">It were good you did so much for charity.» To this all the answer Shylock would make was:</span> 
    <span id="f000416">«I cannot find it;</span> 
    <span id="f000417">it is not in the bond.» «Then,» said Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000418">«a pound of Antonio’s flesh is thine.</span> 
    <span id="f000419">The law allows it,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">and the court awards it.</span> 
    <span id="f000421">And you may cut this flesh from off his breast.</span> 
    <span id="f000422">The law allows it and the court awards it.» Again Shylock exclaimed:</span> 
    <span id="f000423">«O wise and upright judge!</span> 
    <span id="f000424">A Daniel is come to judgment!» And then he sharpened his long knife again,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">and looking eagerly on Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000427">«Come,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">prepare!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000429">«Tarry a little,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">Jew,» said Portia;</span> 
    <span id="f000431">«there is something else.</span> 
    <span id="f000432">This bond here gives you no drop of blood;</span> 
    <span id="f000433">the words expressly are ’a pound of flesh.’ If in the cutting off the pound of flesh you shed one drop of Christian blood,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">your lands and goods are by the law to be confiscated to the state of Venice.» Now as it was utterly impossible for Shylock to cut off the pound of flesh without shedding some of Antonio’s blood,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">this wise discovery of Portia’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">that it was flesh and not blood that was named in the bond,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">saved the life of Antonio;</span> 
    <span id="f000438">and all admiring the wonderful sagacity of the young counsellor,</span> 
    <span id="f000439">who had so happily thought of this expedient,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">plaudits resounded from every part of the senate-house;</span> 
    <span id="f000441">and Gratiano exclaimed,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">in the words which Shylock had used:</span> 
    <span id="f000443">«O wise and upright judge!</span> 
    <span id="f000444">mark,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">Jew,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">a Daniel is come to judgment!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000447">Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000448">finding himself defeated in his cruel intent,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">said with a disappointed look,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">that he would take the money;</span> 
    <span id="f000451">and Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">rejoiced beyond measure at Antonio’s unexpected deliverance,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">cried out:</span> 
    <span id="f000454">«Here is the money!» But Portia stopped him,</span> 
    <span id="f000455">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000456">«Softly;</span> 
    <span id="f000457">there is no haste;</span> 
    <span id="f000458">the Jew shall have nothing but the penalty:</span> 
    <span id="f000459">therefore prepare,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">to cut off the flesh;</span> 
    <span id="f000462">but mind you shed no blood:</span> 
    <span id="f000463">nor do not cut off more nor less than just a pound;</span> 
    <span id="f000464">be it more or less by one poor scruple,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">nay if the scale turn but by the weight of a single hair,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">you are condemned by the laws of Venice to die,</span> 
    <span id="f000467">and all your wealth is forfeited to the senate.» «Give me my money,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">and let me go,» said Shylock.</span> 
    <span id="f000469">«I have it ready,» said Bassanio:</span> 
    <span id="f000470">«here it is.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000471">Shylock was going to take the money,</span> 
    <span id="f000472">when Portia again stopped him,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000474">«Tarry,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">Jew;</span> 
    <span id="f000476">I have yet another hold upon you.</span> 
    <span id="f000477">By the laws of Venice,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">your wealth is forfeited to the state,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">for having conspired against the life of one of its citizens,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">and your life lies at the mercy of the duke;</span> 
    <span id="f000481">therefore,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">down on your knees,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">and ask him to pardon you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000484">The duke then said to Shylock:</span> 
    <span id="f000485">«That you may see the difference of our Christian spirit,</span> 
    <span id="f000486">I pardon you your life before you ask it;</span> 
    <span id="f000487">half your wealth belongs to Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">the other half comes to the state.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000489">The generous Antonio then said that he would give up his share of Shylock’s wealth,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">if Shylock would sign a deed to make it over at his death to his daughter and her husband;</span> 
    <span id="f000491">for Antonio knew that the Jew had an only daughter who had lately married against his consent to a young Christian,</span> 
    <span id="f000492">named Lorenzo,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">a friend of Antonio’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">which had so offended Shylock,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">that he had disinherited her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000496">The Jew agreed to this:</span> 
    <span id="f000497">and being thus disappointed in his revenge,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">and despoiled of his riches,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000500">«I am ill.</span> 
    <span id="f000501">Let me go home;</span> 
    <span id="f000502">send the deed after me,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">and I will sign over half my riches to my daughter.» «Get thee gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">then,» said the Duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000505">«and sign it;</span> 
    <span id="f000506">and if you repent your cruelty and turn Christian,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">the state will forgive you the fine of the other half of your riches.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000508">The duke now released Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">and dismissed the court.</span> 
    <span id="f000510">He then highly praised the wisdom and ingenuity of the young counsellor,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">and invited him home to dinner.</span> 
    <span id="f000512">Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">who meant to return to Belmont before her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000515">«I humbly thank your grace,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">but I must away directly.» The duke said he was sorry he had not leisure to stay and dine with him;</span> 
    <span id="f000517">and turning to Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">he added:</span> 
    <span id="f000519">«Reward this gentleman;</span> 
    <span id="f000520">for in my mind you are much indebted to him.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000521">The duke and his senators left the court;</span> 
    <span id="f000522">and then Bassanio said to Portia:</span> 
    <span id="f000523">«Most worthy gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">I and my friend Antonio have by your wisdom been this day acquitted of grievous penalties,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">and I beg you will accept of the three thousand ducats due unto the Jew.» «And we shall stand indebted to you over and above,» said Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">«in love and service evermore.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000527">Portia could not be prevailed upon to accept the money;</span> 
    <span id="f000528">but upon Bassanio still pressing her to accept of some reward,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000530">«Give me your gloves;</span> 
    <span id="f000531">I will wear them for your sake;» and then Bassanio taking off his gloves,</span> 
    <span id="f000532">she espied the ring which she had given him upon his finger:</span> 
    <span id="f000533">now it was the ring the wily lady wanted to get from him to make a merry jest when she saw her Bassanio again,</span> 
    <span id="f000534">that made her ask him for his gloves;</span> 
    <span id="f000535">and she said,</span> 
    <span id="f000536">when she saw the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">«and for your love I will take this ring from you.» Bassanio was sadly distressed that the counsellor should ask him for the only thing he could not part with,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">and he replied in great confusion,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">that he could not give him that ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">because it was his wife’s gift,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">and he had vowed never to part with it;</span> 
    <span id="f000542">but that he would give him the most valuable ring in Venice,</span> 
    <span id="f000543">and find it out by proclamation.</span> 
    <span id="f000544">On this Portia affected to be affronted,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">and left the court,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000547">«You teach me,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">how a beggar should be answered.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000550">«Dear Bassanio,» said Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000551">«let him have the ring;</span> 
    <span id="f000552">let my love and the great service he has done for me be valued against your wife’s displeasure,» Bassanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">ashamed to appear so ungrateful,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">yielded,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">and sent Gratiano after Portia with the ring;</span> 
    <span id="f000556">and then the clerk Nerissa,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">who had also given Gratiano a ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">she begged his ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">and Gratiano (not choosing to be outdone in generosity by his lord) gave it to her.</span> 
    <span id="f000560">And there was laughing among these ladies to think,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">when they got home,</span> 
    <span id="f000562">how they would tax their husbands with giving away their rings,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">and swear that they had given them as a present to some woman.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000564">Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">when she returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">was in that happy temper of mind which never fails to attend the consciousness of having performed a good action;</span> 
    <span id="f000567">her cheerful spirits enjoyed everything she saw:</span> 
    <span id="f000568">the moon never seemed to shine so bright before;</span> 
    <span id="f000569">and when that pleasant moon was hid behind a cloud,</span> 
    <span id="f000570">then a light which she saw from her house at Belmont as well pleased her charmed fancy,</span> 
    <span id="f000571">and she said to Nerissa:</span> 
    <span id="f000572">«That light we see is burning in my hall;</span> 
    <span id="f000573">how far that little candle throws its beams,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">so shines a good deed in a naughty world»;</span> 
    <span id="f000575">and hearing the sound of music from her house,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000577">«Methinks that music sounds much sweeter than by day.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000578">And now Portia and Nerissa entered the house,</span> 
    <span id="f000579">and dressing themselves in their own apparel,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">they awaited the arrival of their husbands,</span> 
    <span id="f000581">who soon followed them with Antonio;</span> 
    <span id="f000582">and Bassanio presenting his dear friend to the lady Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000583">the congratulations and welcomings of that lady were hardly over,</span> 
    <span id="f000584">when they perceived Nerissa and her husband quarrelling in a corner of the room.</span> 
    <span id="f000585">«A quarrel already?» said Portia.</span> 
    <span id="f000586">«What is the matter?» Gratiano replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000587">«Lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">it is about a paltry gilt ring that Nerissa gave me,</span> 
    <span id="f000589">with words upon it like the poetry on a cutler’s knife;</span> 
    <span id="f000590">Love me,</span> 
    <span id="f000591">and leave me not.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000592">«What does the poetry or the value of the ring signify?» said Nerissa.</span> 
    <span id="f000593">«You swore to me when I gave it to you,</span> 
    <span id="f000594">that you would keep it till the hour of death;</span> 
    <span id="f000595">and now you say you gave it to the lawyer’s clerk.</span> 
    <span id="f000596">I know you gave it to a woman.» «By this hand,» replied Gratiano,</span> 
    <span id="f000597">«I gave it to a youth,</span> 
    <span id="f000598">a kind of boy,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">a little scrubbed boy,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">no higher than yourself;</span> 
    <span id="f000601">he was clerk to the young counsellor that by his wise pleading saved Antonio’s life:</span> 
    <span id="f000602">this prating boy begged it for a fee,</span> 
    <span id="f000603">and I could not for my life deny him.» Portia said:</span> 
    <span id="f000604">«You were to blame,</span> 
    <span id="f000605">Gratiano,</span> 
    <span id="f000606">to part with your wife’s first gift.</span> 
    <span id="f000607">I gave my lord Bassanio a ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000608">and I am sure he would not part with it for all the world.» Gratiano,</span> 
    <span id="f000609">in excuse for his fault,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">now said:</span> 
    <span id="f000611">«My lord Bassanio gave his ring away to the counsellor,</span> 
    <span id="f000612">and then the boy,</span> 
    <span id="f000613">his clerk,</span> 
    <span id="f000614">that took some pains in writing,</span> 
    <span id="f000615">he begged my ring.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000616">Portia,</span> 
    <span id="f000617">hearing this,</span> 
    <span id="f000618">seemed very angry,</span> 
    <span id="f000619">and reproached Bassanio for giving away her ring;</span> 
    <span id="f000620">and she said,</span> 
    <span id="f000621">Nerissa had taught her what to believe,</span> 
    <span id="f000622">and that she knew some woman had the ring.</span> 
    <span id="f000623">Bassanio was very unhappy to have so offended his dear lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000624">and he said with great earnestness:</span> 
    <span id="f000625">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000626">by my honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000627">no woman had it,</span> 
    <span id="f000628">but a civil doctor,</span> 
    <span id="f000629">who refused three thousand ducats of me,</span> 
    <span id="f000630">and begged the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000631">which when I denied him,</span> 
    <span id="f000632">he went displeased away.</span> 
    <span id="f000633">What could I do,</span> 
    <span id="f000634">sweet Portia?</span> 
    <span id="f000635">I was so beset with shame for my seeming ingratitude,</span> 
    <span id="f000636">that I was forced to send the ring after him.</span> 
    <span id="f000637">Pardon me,</span> 
    <span id="f000638">good lady;</span> 
    <span id="f000639">had you been there,</span> 
    <span id="f000640">I think you would have begged the ring of me to give the worthy doctor.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000641">«Ah!» said Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000642">«I am the unhappy cause of these quarrels.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000643">Portia bid Antonio not to grieve at that,</span> 
    <span id="f000644">for that he was welcome notwithstanding;</span> 
    <span id="f000645">and then Antonio said:</span> 
    <span id="f000646">«I once did lend my body for Bassanio’s sake;</span> 
    <span id="f000647">and but for him to whom your husband gave the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000648">I should have now been dead.</span> 
    <span id="f000649">I dare be bound again,</span> 
    <span id="f000650">my soul upon the forfeit,</span> 
    <span id="f000651">your lord will never more break his faith with you.» «Then you shall be his surety,» said Portia;</span> 
    <span id="f000652">«give him this ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000653">and bid him keep it better than the other.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000654">When Bassanio looked at this ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000655">he was strangely surprised to find it was the same he gave away;</span> 
    <span id="f000656">and then Portia told him how she was the young counsellor,</span> 
    <span id="f000657">and Nerissa was her clerk;</span> 
    <span id="f000658">and Bassanio found,</span> 
    <span id="f000659">to his unspeakable wonder and delight,</span> 
    <span id="f000660">that it was by the noble courage and wisdom of his wife that Antonio’s life was saved.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000661">And Portia again welcomed Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000662">and gave him letters which by some chance had fallen into her hands,</span> 
    <span id="f000663">which contained an account of Antonio’s ships,</span> 
    <span id="f000664">that were supposed lost,</span> 
    <span id="f000665">being safely arrived in the harbour.</span> 
    <span id="f000666">So these tragical beginnings of this rich merchant’s story were all forgotten in the unexpected good fortune which ensued;</span> 
    <span id="f000667">and there was leisure to laugh at the comical adventure of the rings,</span> 
    <span id="f000668">and the husbands that did not know their own wives:</span> 
    <span id="f000669">Gratiano merrily swearing,</span> 
    <span id="f000670">in a sort of rhyming speech,</span> 
    <span id="f000671">that</span></p> 
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000672">While he lived, he’d fear no other thing</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000673">So sore, as keeping safe Nerissa’s ring.</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>