<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Cymbeline</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">During the time of Augustus Cæsar,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">emperor of Rome,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">there reigned n England (which was then called Britain) a king whose name was Cymbeline.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000005">Cymbeline’s first wife died when his three children (two sons and a daughter) were very young.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">the eldest of these children,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">was brought up in her father’s court;</span> 
    <span id="f000009">but by a strange chance the two sons of Cymbeline were stolen out of their nursery,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">when the eldest was but three years of age,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">and the youngest quite an infant;</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and Cymbeline could never discover what was become of them,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">or by whom they were conveyed away.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000014">Cymbeline was twice married:</span> 
    <span id="f000015">his second wife was a wicked,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">plotting woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">and a cruel stepmother to Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">Cymbeline’s daughter by his first wife.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000019">The queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">though she hated Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">yet wished her to marry a son of her own by a former husband (she also having been twice married):</span> 
    <span id="f000022">for by this means she hoped upon the death of Cymbeline to place the crown of Britain upon the head of her son Cloten;</span> 
    <span id="f000023">for she knew that,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">if the king’s sons were not found,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">the princess Imogen must be the king’s heir.</span> 
    <span id="f000026">But this design was prevented by Imogen herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">who married without the consent or even knowledge of her father or the queen.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000028">Posthumus (for that was the name of Imogen’s husband) was the best scholar and most accomplished gentleman of that age.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">His father died fighting in the wars for Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">and soon after his birth his mother died also for grief at the loss of her husband.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000031">Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">pitying the helpless state of this orphan,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">took Posthumus (Cymbeline having given him that name,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">because he was born after his father’s death),</span> 
    <span id="f000035">and educated him in his own court.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000036">Imogen and Posthumus were both taught by the same masters,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">and were playfellows from their infancy;</span> 
    <span id="f000038">they loved each other tenderly when they were children,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">and their affection continuing to increase with their years,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">when they grew up they privately married.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">The disappointed queen soon learnt this secret,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">for she kept spies constantly in watch upon the actions of her daughter-in-law,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">and she immediately told the king of the marriage of Imogen with Posthumus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">Nothing could exceed the wrath of Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">when he heard that his daughter had been so forgetful of her high dignity as to marry a subject.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">He commanded Posthumus to leave Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">and banished him from his native country for ever.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000048">The queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">who pretended to pity Imogen for the grief she suffered at losing her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">offered to procure them a private meeting before Posthumus set out on his journey to Rome,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">which place he had chosen for his residence in his banishment:</span> 
    <span id="f000052">this seeming kindness she showed,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">the better to succeed in her future designs in regard to her son Cloten;</span> 
    <span id="f000054">for she meant to persuade Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">when her husband was gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">that her marriage was not lawful,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">being contracted without the consent of the king.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000058">Imogen and Posthumus took a most affectionate leave of each other.</span> 
    <span id="f000059">Imogen gave her husband a diamond ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">which had been her mother’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">and Posthumus promised never to part with the ring;</span> 
    <span id="f000062">and he fastened a bracelet on the arm of his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">which he begged she would preserve with great care,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">as a token of his love;</span> 
    <span id="f000065">they then bid each other farewell,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">with many vows of everlasting love and fidelity.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000067">Imogen remained a solitary and dejected lady in her father’s court,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and Posthumus arrived at Rome,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">the place he had chosen for his banishment.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">Posthumus fell into company at Rome with some gay young men of different nations,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">who were talking freely of ladies:</span> 
    <span id="f000072">each one praising the ladies of his own country,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">and his own mistress.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">who had ever his own dear lady in his mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">affirmed that his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">the fair Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">was the most virtuous,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">wise,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and constant lady in the world.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000081">One of those gentlemen,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">whose name was Iachimo,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">being offended that a lady of Britain should be so praised above the Roman ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">his country-women,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">provoked Posthumus by seeming to doubt the constancy of his so highly-praised wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and at length,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">after much altercation,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">Posthumus consented to a proposal of Iachimo’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">that he (Iachimo) should go to Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and endeavour to gain the love of the married Imogen.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">They then laid a wager,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">that if Iachimo did not succeed in this wicked design,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">he was to forfeit a large sum of money;</span> 
    <span id="f000094">but if he could win Imogen’s favour,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">and prevail upon her to give him the bracelet which Posthumus had so earnestly desired she would keep as a token of his love,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">then the wager was to terminate with Posthumus giving to Iachimo the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">which was Imogen’s love present when she parted with her husband.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">Such firm faith had Posthumus in the fidelity of Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">that he thought he ran no hazard in this trial of her honour.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000100">Iachimo,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">on his arrival in Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">gained admittance,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">and a courteous welcome from Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">as a friend of her husband;</span> 
    <span id="f000105">but when he began to make professions of love to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">she repulsed him with disdain,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">and he soon found that he could have no hope of succeeding in his dishonourable design.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000108">The desire Iachimo had to win the wager made him now have recourse to a stratagem to impose upon Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">and for this purpose he bribed some of Imogen’s attendants,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">and was by them conveyed into her bedchamber,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">concealed in a large trunk,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">where he remained shut up till Imogen was retired to rest,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and had fallen asleep;</span> 
    <span id="f000114">and then getting out of the trunk,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">he examined the chamber with great attention,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">and wrote down everything he saw there,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">and particularly noticed a mole which he observed upon Imogen’s neck,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">and then softly unloosing the bracelet from her arm,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">which Posthumus had given to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">he retired into the chest again;</span> 
    <span id="f000121">and the next day he set off for Rome with great expedition,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">and boasted to Posthumus that Imogen had given him the bracelet,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">and likewise permitted him to pass a night in her chamber:</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and in this manner Iachimo told his false tale:</span> 
    <span id="f000125">«Her bedchamber,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">«was hung with tapestry of silk and silver,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">the story was the proud Cleopatra when she met her Anthony,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">a piece of work most bravely wrought.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000129">«This is true,» said Posthumus;</span> 
    <span id="f000130">«but this you might have heard spoken of without seeing.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000131">«Then the chimney,» said Iachimo,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">«is south of the chamber,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">and the chimney-piece is Diana bathing;</span> 
    <span id="f000134">never saw I figures livelier expressed.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000135">«This is a thing you might have likewise heard,» said Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">«for it is much talked of.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000137">Iachimo as accurately described the roof of the chamber;</span> 
    <span id="f000138">and added:</span> 
    <span id="f000139">«I had almost forgot her andirons;</span> 
    <span id="f000140">they were two winking Cupids made of silver,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">each on one foot standing.» He then took out the bracelet,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">and said:</span> 
    <span id="f000143">«Know you this jewel,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">sir?</span> 
    <span id="f000145">She gave me this.</span> 
    <span id="f000146">She took it from her arm.</span> 
    <span id="f000147">I see her yet;</span> 
    <span id="f000148">her pretty action did outsell her gift,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">and yet enriched it too.</span> 
    <span id="f000150">She gave it me,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">and said,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">she prized it once.» He last of all described the mole he had observed upon her neck.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">who had heard the whole of this artful recital in an agony of doubt,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">now broke out into the most passionate exclamations against Imogen.</span> 
    <span id="f000156">He delivered up the diamond ring to Iachimo,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">which he had agreed to forfeit to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">if he obtained the bracelet from Imogen.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000159">Posthumus then in a jealous rage wrote to Pisanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">a gentleman of Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">who was one of Imogen’s attendants,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">and had long been a faithful friend to Posthumus;</span> 
    <span id="f000163">and after telling him what proof he had of his wife’s disloyalty,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">he desired Pisanio would take Imogen to Milford-Haven,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">a seaport of Wales,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">and there kill her.</span> 
    <span id="f000167">And at the same time he wrote a deceitful letter to Imogen desiring her to go with Pisanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">for that finding he could live no longer without seeing her,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">though he was forbidden upon pain of death to return to Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">he would come to Milford-Haven,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">at which place he begged she would meet him.</span> 
    <span id="f000172">She,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">good unsuspecting lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">who loved her husband above all things,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">and desired more than her life to see him,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">hastened her departure with Pisanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">and the same night she received the letter she set out.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">When their journey was nearly at an end,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">Pisanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">though faithful to Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">was not faithful to serve him in an evil deed,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">disclosed to Imogen the cruel order he had received.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000184">Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">instead of meeting a loving and beloved husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">found herself doomed by that husband to suffer death,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">was afflicted beyond measure.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000189">Pisanio persuaded her to take comfort,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">and wait with patient fortitude for the time when Posthumus should see and repent his injustice:</span> 
    <span id="f000191">in the meantime,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">as she refused in her distress to return to her father’s court,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">he advised her to dress herself in boy’s clothes for more security in travelling;</span> 
    <span id="f000194">to which device she agreed,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">and thought in that disguise she would go over to Rome,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">and see her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">whom,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">though he had used her so barbarously,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">she could not forget to love.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000200">When Pisanio had provided her with her new apparel,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">he left her to her uncertain fortune,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">being obliged to return to court;</span> 
    <span id="f000203">but before he departed he gave her a phial of cordial,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">which he said the queen had given him as a sovereign remedy in all disorders.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000205">The queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">who hated Pisanio because he was a friend to Imogen and Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">gave him this phial,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">which she supposed contained poison,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">she having ordered her physician to give her some poison,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">to try its effects (as she said) upon animals;</span> 
    <span id="f000211">but the physician,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">knowing her malicious disposition,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">would not trust her with real poison,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">but gave her a drug which would do no other mischief than causing a person to sleep with every appearance of death for a few hours.</span> 
    <span id="f000215">This mixture,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">which Pisanio thought a choice cordial,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">he gave to Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">desiring her,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">if she found herself ill upon the road,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">to take it;</span> 
    <span id="f000221">and so,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">with blessings and prayers for her safety and happy deliverance from her undeserved troubles,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">he left her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000224">Providence strangely directed Imogen’s steps to the dwelling of her two brothers,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">who had been stolen away in their infancy.</span> 
    <span id="f000226">Bellarius,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">who stole them away,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">was a lord in the court of Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">and having been falsely accused to the king of treason,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">and banished from the court,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">in revenge he stole away the two sons of Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">and brought them up in a forest,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">where he lived concealed in a cave.</span> 
    <span id="f000234">He stole them through revenge,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">but he soon loved them as tenderly as if they had been his own children,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">educated them carefully,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">and they grew up fine youths,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">their princely spirits leading them to bold and daring actions;</span> 
    <span id="f000239">and as they subsisted by hunting,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">they were active and hardy,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">and were always pressing their supposed father to let them seek their fortune in the wars.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000242">At the cave where these youths dwelt it was Imogen’s fortune to arrive.</span> 
    <span id="f000243">She had lost her way in a large forest,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">through which her road lay to Milford-Haven (from which she meant to embark for Rome);</span> 
    <span id="f000245">and being unable to find any place where she could purchase food,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">she was with weariness and hunger almost dying;</span> 
    <span id="f000247">for it is not merely putting on a man’s apparel that will enable a young lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">tenderly brought up,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">to bear the fatigue of wandering about lonely forests like a man.</span> 
    <span id="f000250">Seeing this cave,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">she entered,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">hoping to find someone within of whom she could procure food.</span> 
    <span id="f000253">She found the cave empty,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">but looking about she discovered some cold meat,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">and her hunger was so pressing,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">that she could not wait for an invitation,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">but sat down and began to eat.</span> 
    <span id="f000258">«Ah,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">talking to herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">«I see a man’s life is a tedious one;</span> 
    <span id="f000261">how tired am I!</span> 
    <span id="f000262">for two nights together I have made the ground my bed:</span> 
    <span id="f000263">my resolution helps me,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">or I should be sick.</span> 
    <span id="f000265">When Pisanio showed me Milford-Haven from the mountain top,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">how near it seemed!» Then the thoughts of her husband and his cruel mandate came across her,</span> 
    <span id="f000267">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000268">«My dear Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">thou art a false one!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000270">The two brothers of Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">who had been hunting with their reputed father,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">Bellarius,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">were by this time returned home.</span> 
    <span id="f000274">Bellarius had given them the names of Polydore and Cadwal,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">and they knew no better,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">but supposed that Bellarius was their father;</span> 
    <span id="f000277">but the real names of these princes were Guiderius and Arviragus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000278">Bellarius entered the cave first,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">and seeing Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">stopped them,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000282">«Come not in yet;</span> 
    <span id="f000283">it eats our victuals,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">or I should think it was a fairy.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000285">«What is the matter,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">sir?» said the young men.</span> 
    <span id="f000287">«By Jupiter,» said Bellarius again,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">«there is an angel in the cave,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">or if not,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">an earthly paragon.» So beautiful did Imogen look in her boy’s apparel.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000291">She,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">hearing the sound of voices,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">came forth from the cave,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">and addressed them in these words:</span> 
    <span id="f000295">«Good masters,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">do not harm me;</span> 
    <span id="f000297">before I entered your cave,</span> 
    <span id="f000298">I had thought to have begged or bought what I have eaten.</span> 
    <span id="f000299">Indeed I have stolen nothing,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">nor would I,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">though I had found gold strewed on the floor.</span> 
    <span id="f000302">Here is money for my meat,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">which I would have left on the board when I had made my meal,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">and parted with prayers for the provider.» They refused her money with great earnestness.</span> 
    <span id="f000305">«I see you are angry with me,» said the timid Imogen;</span> 
    <span id="f000306">«but,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">sirs,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">if you kill me for my fault,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">know that I should have died if I had not made it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000310">«Whither are you bound?» asked Bellarius,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">«and what is your name?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000312">«Fidele is my name,» answered Imogen.</span> 
    <span id="f000313">«I have a kinsman,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">who is bound for Italy;</span> 
    <span id="f000315">he embarked at Milford-Haven,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">to whom being going,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">almost spent with hunger,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">I am fallen into this offence.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000319">«Prithee,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">fair youth,» said old Bellarius,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">«do not think us churls,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">nor measure our good minds by this rude place we live in.</span> 
    <span id="f000323">You are well encountered;</span> 
    <span id="f000324">it is almost night.</span> 
    <span id="f000325">You shall have better cheer before you depart,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">and thanks to stay and eat it.</span> 
    <span id="f000327">Boys,</span> 
    <span id="f000328">bid him welcome.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000329">The gentle youths,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">her brothers,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">then welcomed Imogen to their cave with many kind expressions,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">saying they would love her (or,</span> 
    <span id="f000333">as they said,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">him) as a brother;</span> 
    <span id="f000335">and they entered the cave,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">where (they having killed venison when they were hunting) Imogen delighted them with her neat housewifery,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">assisting them in preparing their supper;</span> 
    <span id="f000338">for though it is not the custom now for young women of high birth to understand cookery,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">it was then,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">and Imogen excelled in this useful art;</span> 
    <span id="f000341">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">as her brothers prettily expressed it,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">Fidele cut their roots in characters,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">and sauced their broth,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">as if Juno had been sick,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">and Fidele were her dieter.</span> 
    <span id="f000347">«And then,» said Polydore to his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">«how angellike he sings!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000349">They also remarked to each other,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">that though Fidele smiled so sweetly,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">yet so sad a melancholy did overcloud his lovely face,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">as if grief and patience had together taken possession of him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000353">For these her gentle qualities (or perhaps it was their near relationship,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">though they knew it not) Imogen (or,</span> 
    <span id="f000355">as the boys called her,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">Fidele) became the doting-piece of her brothers,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">and she scarcely less loved them,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">thinking that but for the memory of her dear Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">she could live and die in the cave with these wild forest youths;</span> 
    <span id="f000360">and she gladly consented to stay with them,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">till she was enough rested from the fatigue of travelling to pursue her way to Milford-Haven.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000362">When the venison they had taken was all eaten and they were going out to hunt for more.</span> 
    <span id="f000363">Fidele could not accompany them because she was unwell.</span> 
    <span id="f000364">Sorrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">no doubt,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">for her husband’s cruel usage,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">as well as the fatigue of wandering in the forest,</span> 
    <span id="f000368">was the cause of her illness.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000369">They then bid her farewell,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">and went to their hunt,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">praising all the way the noble parts and graceful demeanour of the youth Fidele.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000372">Imogen was no sooner left alone then she recollected the cordial Pisanio had given her,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">and drank it off,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">and presently fell into a sound and deathlike sleep.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000375">When Bellarius and her brothers returned from hunting,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">Polydore went first into the cave,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">and supposing her asleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">pulled off his heavy shoes,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">that he might tread softly and not awake her;</span> 
    <span id="f000380">so did true gentleness spring up in the minds of these princely foresters;</span> 
    <span id="f000381">but he soon discovered that she could not be awakened by any noise,</span> 
    <span id="f000382">and concluded her to be dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">and Polydore lamented over her with dear and brotherly regret,</span> 
    <span id="f000384">as if they had never from their infancy been parted.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000385">Bellarius also proposed to carry her out into the forest,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">and there celebrate her funeral with songs and solemn dirges,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">as was then the custom.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000388">Imogen’s two brothers then carried her to a shady covert,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">and there laying her gently on the grass,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">they sang repose to her departed spirit,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">and covering her over with leaves and flowers,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">Polydore said:</span> 
    <span id="f000393">«While summer lasts and I live here,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">Fidele,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">I will daily strew thy grave.</span> 
    <span id="f000396">The pale primrose,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">that flower most like thy face;</span> 
    <span id="f000398">the blue-bell,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">like thy clear veins;</span> 
    <span id="f000400">and the leaf of eglantine,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">which is not sweeter than was thy breath;</span> 
    <span id="f000402">all these will I strew over thee.</span> 
    <span id="f000403">Yea,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">and the furred moss in winter,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">when there are no flowers to cover thy sweet corse.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000406">When they had finished her funeral obsequies they departed very sorrowful.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000407">Imogen had not been long left alone,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">when,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">the effect of the sleepy drug going off,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">she awaked,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">and easily shaking off the slight covering of leaves and flowers they had thrown over her,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">she arose,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">and imagining she had been dreaming,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000415">«I thought I was a cavekeeper,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">and cook to honest creatures;</span> 
    <span id="f000417">how came I here covered with flowers?» Not being able to find her way back to the cave,</span> 
    <span id="f000418">and seeing nothing of her new companions,</span> 
    <span id="f000419">she concluded it was certainly all a dream;</span> 
    <span id="f000420">and once more Imogen set out on her weary pilgrimage,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">hoping at last she should find her way to Milford-Haven,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">and thence get a passage in some ship bound for Italy;</span> 
    <span id="f000423">for all her thoughts were still with her husband Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">whom she intended to seek in the disguise of a page.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000425">But great events were happening at this time,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">of which Imogen knew nothing;</span> 
    <span id="f000427">for a war had suddenly broken out between the Roman emperor Augustus Caesar and Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">the king of Britain;</span> 
    <span id="f000429">and a Roman army had landed to invade Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">and was advanced into the very forest over which Imogen was journeying.</span> 
    <span id="f000431">With this army came Posthumus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000432">Though Posthumus came over to Britain with the Roman army,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">he did not mean to fight on their side against his own countrymen,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">but intended to join the army of Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">and fight in the cause of his king who had banished him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000436">He still believed Imogen false to him;</span> 
    <span id="f000437">yet the death of her he had so fondly loved,</span> 
    <span id="f000438">and by his own orders too (Pisanio having written him a letter to say he had obeyed his command,</span> 
    <span id="f000439">and that Imogen was dead),</span> 
    <span id="f000440">sat heavy on his heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000441">and therefore he returned to Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">desiring either to be slain in battle,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">or to be put to death by Cymbeline for returning home from banishment.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000444">Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">before she reached Milford-Haven,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">fell into the hands of the Roman army;</span> 
    <span id="f000447">and her presence and deportment recommending her,</span> 
    <span id="f000448">she was made a page to Lucius,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">the Roman general.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000450">Cymbeline’s army now advanced to meet the enemy,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">and when they entered this forest,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">Polydore and Cadwal joined the king’s army.</span> 
    <span id="f000453">The young men were eager to engage in acts of valour,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">though they little thought they were going to fight for their own royal father:</span> 
    <span id="f000455">and old Bellarius went with them to the battle.</span> 
    <span id="f000456">He had long since repented of the injury he had done to Cymbeline in carrying away his sons;</span> 
    <span id="f000457">and having been a warrior in his youth,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">he gladly joined the army to fight for the king he had so injured.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000459">And now a great battle commenced between the two armies,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">and the Britons would have been defeated,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">and Cymbeline himself killed,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">but for the extraordinary valour of Posthumus and Bellarius and the two sons of Cymbeline.</span> 
    <span id="f000463">They rescued the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">and saved his life,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">and so entirely turned the fortune of the day,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">that the Britons gained the victory.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000467">When the battle was over,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">who had not found the death he sought for,</span> 
    <span id="f000470">surrendered himself up to one of the officers of Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">willing to suffer the death which was to be his punishment if he returned from banishment.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000472">Imogen and the master she served were taken prisoners,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">and brought before Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">as was also her old enemy Iachimo,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">who was an officer in the Roman army;</span> 
    <span id="f000476">and when these prisoners were before the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000477">Posthumus was brought in to receive his sentence of death;</span> 
    <span id="f000478">and at this strange juncture of time,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">Bellarius with Polydore and Cadwal were also brought before Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">to receive the rewards due to the great services they had by their valour done for the king.</span> 
    <span id="f000481">Pisanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">being one of the king’s attendants,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">was likewise present.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000484">Therefore there were now standing in the king’s presence (but with very different hopes and fears) Posthumus and Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">with her new master the Roman general;</span> 
    <span id="f000486">the faithful servant Pisanio,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">and the false friend Iachimo;</span> 
    <span id="f000488">and likewise the two lost sons of Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000489">with Bellarius,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">who had stolen them away.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000491">The Roman general was the first who spoke;</span> 
    <span id="f000492">the rest stood silent before the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">though there was many a beating heart among them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000494">Imogen saw Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">and knew him,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">though he was in the disguise of a peasant;</span> 
    <span id="f000497">but he did not know her in her male attire;</span> 
    <span id="f000498">and she knew Iachimo,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">and she saw a ring on his finger which she perceived to be her own,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">but she did not know him as yet to have been the author of all her troubles:</span> 
    <span id="f000501">and she stood before her own father a prisoner of war.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000502">Pisanio knew Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">for it was he who had dressed her in the garb of a boy.</span> 
    <span id="f000504">«It is my mistress,» thought he;</span> 
    <span id="f000505">«since she is living,</span> 
    <span id="f000506">let the time run on to good or bad.» Bellarius knew her too,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">and softly said to Cadwal:</span> 
    <span id="f000508">«Is not this boy revived from death?» — «One sand,» replied Cadwal,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">«does not more resemble another than that sweet rosy lad is like the dead Fidele.» — «The same dead thing alive,» said Polydore.</span> 
    <span id="f000510">«Peace,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">peace,» said Bellarius;</span> 
    <span id="f000512">«if it were he,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">I am sure he would have spoken to us.» «But we saw him dead,» again whispered Polydore.</span> 
    <span id="f000514">«Be silent,» replied Bellarius.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000515">Posthumus waited in silence to hear the welcome sentence of his own death;</span> 
    <span id="f000516">and he resolved not to disclose to the king that he had saved his life in the battle,</span> 
    <span id="f000517">lest that should move Cymbeline to pardon him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000518">Lucius,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">the Roman general,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">who had taken Imogen under his protection as his page,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">was the first (as has been before said) who spoke to the king.</span> 
    <span id="f000522">He was a man of high courage and noble dignity,</span> 
    <span id="f000523">and this was his speech to the king: — </span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000524">«I hear you take no ransom for your prisoners,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">but doom them all to death:</span> 
    <span id="f000526">I am a Roman.</span> 
    <span id="f000527">and with a Roman heart will suffer death.</span> 
    <span id="f000528">But there is one thing for which I would entreat.» Then bringing Imogen before the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000530">«This boy is a Briton born.</span> 
    <span id="f000531">Let him be ransomed.</span> 
    <span id="f000532">He is my page.</span> 
    <span id="f000533">Never master had a page so kind,</span> 
    <span id="f000534">so duteous,</span> 
    <span id="f000535">so diligent on all occasions,</span> 
    <span id="f000536">so true,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">so nurse-like.</span> 
    <span id="f000538">He hath done no Briton wrong,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">though he hath served a Roman.</span> 
    <span id="f000540">Save him,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">if you spare no one beside.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000542">Cymbeline looked earnestly on his daughter Imogen.</span> 
    <span id="f000543">He knew her not in that disguise;</span> 
    <span id="f000544">but it seemed that all-powerful Nature spake in his heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">for he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000546">«I have surely seen him,</span> 
    <span id="f000547">his face appears familiar to me.</span> 
    <span id="f000548">I know not why or wherefore I say,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">Live,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">boy;</span> 
    <span id="f000551">but I give you your life,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">and ask of me what boon you will,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">and I will grant it you.</span> 
    <span id="f000554">Yea,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">even though it be the life of the noblest prisoner I have.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000556">«I humbly thank your highness,» said Imogen.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000557">What was then called granting a boon was the same as a promise to give any one thing,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">whatever it might be,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">that the person on whom that favour was conferred chose to ask for.</span> 
    <span id="f000560">They all were attentive to hear what thing the page would ask for;</span> 
    <span id="f000561">and Lucius her master said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000562">«I do not beg my life,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">good lad,</span> 
    <span id="f000564">but I know that is what you will ask for.» — «No,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">no,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">alas!» said Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">«I have other work in hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000568">good master;</span> 
    <span id="f000569">your life I cannot ask for.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000570">This seeming want of gratitude in the boy astonished the Roman general.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000571">Imogen then,</span> 
    <span id="f000572">fixing her eye on Iachimo,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">demanded no other boon than this:</span> 
    <span id="f000574">that Iachimo should be made to confess whence he had the ring he wore on his finger.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000575">Cymbeline granted her this boon,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">and threatened Iachimo with the torture if he did not confess how he came by the diamond ring on his finger.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000577">Iachimo then made a full acknowledgment of all his villany,</span> 
    <span id="f000578">telling,</span> 
    <span id="f000579">as has been before related,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">the whole story of his wager with Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000581">and how he had succeeded in imposing upon his credulity.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000582">What Posthumus felt at hearing this proof of the innocence of his lady cannot be expressed.</span> 
    <span id="f000583">He instantly came forward,</span> 
    <span id="f000584">and confessed to Cymbeline the cruel sentence which he had enjoined Pisanio to execute upon the princess;</span> 
    <span id="f000585">exclaiming wildly:</span> 
    <span id="f000586">«O Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000587">my queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">my life,</span> 
    <span id="f000589">my wife!</span> 
    <span id="f000590">O Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000591">Imogen,</span> 
    <span id="f000592">Imogen!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000593">Imogen could not see her beloved husband in this distress without discovering herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000594">to the unutterable joy of Posthumus,</span> 
    <span id="f000595">who was thus relieved from a weight of guilt and woe,</span> 
    <span id="f000596">and restored to the good graces of the dear lady he had so cruelly treated.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000597">Cymbeline,</span> 
    <span id="f000598">almost as much overwhelmed as he with joy,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">at finding his lost daughter so strangely recovered,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">received her to her former place in his fatherly affection,</span> 
    <span id="f000601">and not only gave her husband Posthumus his life,</span> 
    <span id="f000602">but consented to acknowledge him for his son-in-law.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000603">Bellarius chose this time of joy and reconciliation to make his confession.</span> 
    <span id="f000604">He presented Polydore and Cadwal to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000605">telling him they were his two lost sons,</span> 
    <span id="f000606">Guiderius and Arviragus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000607">Cymbeline forgave old Bellarius;</span> 
    <span id="f000608">for who could think of punishments at a season of such universal happiness?</span> 
    <span id="f000609">To find his daughter living,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">and his lost sons in the persons of his young deliverers,</span> 
    <span id="f000611">that he had seen so bravely fight in his defence,</span> 
    <span id="f000612">was unlooked-for joy indeed!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000613">Imogen was now at leisure to perform good services for her late master,</span> 
    <span id="f000614">the Roman general Lucius,</span> 
    <span id="f000615">whose life the king her father readily granted at her request;</span> 
    <span id="f000616">and by the mediation of the same Lucius a peace was concluded between the Romans and the Britons,</span> 
    <span id="f000617">which was kept inviolate many years.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000618">How Cymbeline’s wicked queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000619">through despair of bringing her projects to pass,</span> 
    <span id="f000620">and touched with remorse of conscience,</span> 
    <span id="f000621">sickened and died,</span> 
    <span id="f000622">having first lived to see her foolish son Cloten slain in a quarrel which he had provoked,</span> 
    <span id="f000623">are events too tragical to interrupt this happy conclusion by more than merely touching upon.</span> 
    <span id="f000624">It is sufficient that all were made happy who were deserving;</span> 
    <span id="f000625">and even the treacherous Iachimo,</span> 
    <span id="f000626">in consideration of his villainy having missed its final aim,</span> 
    <span id="f000627">was dismissed without punishment.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>