<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">King Lear</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Lear,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">king of Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">had three daughters;</span> 
    <span id="f000005">Goneril,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">wife to the duke of Albany;</span> 
    <span id="f000007">Regan,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">wife to the duke of Cornwall;</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">a young maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">for whose love the king of France and duke of Burgundy were joint suitors,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and were at this time making stay for that purpose in the court of Lear.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">The old king,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">worn out with age and the fatigues of government,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">he being more than fourscore years old,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">determined to take no further part in state affairs,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">but to leave the management to younger strengths,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">that he might have time to prepare for death,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">which must at no long period ensue.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">With this intent he called his three daughters to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">to know from their own lips which of them loved him best,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">that he might part his kingdom among them in such proportions as their affection for him should seem to deserve.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000023">Goneril,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">the eldest,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">declared that she loved her father more than words could give out,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">that he was dearer to her than the light of her own eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">dearer than life and liberty,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">with a deal of such professing stuff,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">which is easy to counterfeit where there is no real love,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">only a few fine words delivered with confidence being wanted in that case.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">The king,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">delighted to hear from her own mouth this assurance of her love,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">and thinking truly that her heart went with it,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">in a ht of fatherly fondness bestowed upon her and her husband one-third of his ample kingdom.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000035">Then calling to him his second daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">he demanded what she had to say.</span> 
    <span id="f000037">Regan,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">who was made of the same hollow metal as her sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">was not a whit behind in her profession,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">but rather declared that what her sister had spoken came short of the love which she professed to bear for his highness;</span> 
    <span id="f000041">insomuch that she found all other joys dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">in comparison with the pleasure which she took in the love of her dear king and father.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">Lear blessed himself in having such loving children,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">as he thought;</span> 
    <span id="f000045">and could do no less,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">after the handsome assurances which Regan had made,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">than bestow a third of his kingdom upon her and her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">equal in size to that which he had already given away to Goneril.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">Then turning to his youngest daughter Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">whom he called his joy,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">he asked what she had to say,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">thinking no doubt that she would glad his ears with the same loving speeches which her sisters had uttered,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">or rather that her expressions would be so much stronger than theirs,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">as she had always been his darling,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">and favoured by him above either of them.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">But Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">disgusted with the flattery of her sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">whose hearts she knew were far from their lips,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">and seeing that all their coaxing speeches were only intended to wheedle the old king out of his dominions,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">that they and their husbands might reign in his lifetime,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">made no other reply but this,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">that she loved his majesty according to her duty,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">neither more nor less.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000064">The king,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">shocked with this appearance of ingratitude in his favourite child,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">desired her to consider her words,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">and to mend her speech,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">lest it should mar her fortunes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">Cordelia then told her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">that he was her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">that he had given her breeding,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">and loved her;</span> 
    <span id="f000073">that she returned those duties back as was most fit,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">and did obey him,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">love him,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">and most honour him.</span> 
    <span id="f000077">But that she could not frame her mouth to such large speeches as her sisters had done,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">or promise to love nothing else in the world.</span> 
    <span id="f000079">Why had her sisters husbands,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">if (as they said) they had no love for anything but their father?</span> 
    <span id="f000081">If she should ever wed,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">she was sure the lord to whom she gave her hand would want half her love,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">half of her care and duty;</span> 
    <span id="f000084">she should never marry like her sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">to love her father all.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000086">Cordelia.</span> 
    <span id="f000087">who in earnest loved her old father even almost as extravagantly as her sisters pretended to do,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">would have plainly told him so at any other time,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">in more daughter-like and loving terms,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and without these qualifications,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">which did indeed sound a little ungracious;</span> 
    <span id="f000092">but after the crafty flattering speeches of her sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">which she had seen drawn such extravagant rewards,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">she thought the handsomest thing she could do was to love and be silent.</span> 
    <span id="f000095">This put her affection out of suspicion of mercenary ends,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">and showed that she loved,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">but not for gain;</span> 
    <span id="f000098">and that her professions,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">the less ostentatious they were,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">had so much the more of truth and sincerity than her sisters’.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000101">This plainness of speech,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">which Lear called pride,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">so enraged the old monarch who in his best of times always showed much of spleen and rashness,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">and in whom the dotage incident to old age had so clouded over his reason,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">that he could not discern truth from flattery,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">nor a gay painted speech from words that came from the heart — that in a fury of resentment he retracted the third part of his kingdom,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">which yet remained,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">and which he had reserved for Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">and gave it away from her,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">sharing it equally between her two sisters and their husbands,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">the dukes of Albany and Cornwall;</span> 
    <span id="f000112">whom he now called to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and in presence of all his courtiers bestowing a coronet between them,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">invested them jointly with all the power,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">revenue,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">and execution of government,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">only retaining to himself the name of king;</span> 
    <span id="f000118">all the rest of royalty he resigned;</span> 
    <span id="f000119">with this reservation,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">that himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">with a hundred knights for his attendants,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">was to be maintained by monthly course in each of his daughters’ palaces in turn.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">So preposterous a disposal of his kingdom,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">so little guided by reason,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">and so much by passion,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">filled all his courtiers with astonishment and sorrow;</span> 
    <span id="f000127">but none of them had the courage to interpose between this incensed king and his wrath,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">except the earl of Kent,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">who was beginning to speak a good word for Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">when the passionate Lear on pain of death commanded him to desist;</span> 
    <span id="f000131">but the good Kent was not so to be repelled.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">He had been ever loyal to Lear,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">whom he had honoured as a king,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">loved as a father,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">followed as a master;</span> 
    <span id="f000136">and he had never esteemed his life further than as a pawn to wage against his royal master’s enemies,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">nor feared to lose it when Lear’s safety was the motive;</span> 
    <span id="f000138">nor now that Lear was most his own enemy,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">did this faithful servant of the king forget his old principles,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">but manfully opposed Lear,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">to do Lear good;</span> 
    <span id="f000142">and was unmannerly only because Lear was mad.</span> 
    <span id="f000143">He had been a most faithful counsellor in times past to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">and he besought him now,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">that he would see with his eyes (as he had done in many weighty matters),</span> 
    <span id="f000146">and go by his advice still;</span> 
    <span id="f000147">and in his best consideration recall this hideous rashness:</span> 
    <span id="f000148">for he would answer with his life,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">his judgment that Lear’s youngest daughter did not love him least,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">nor were those empty-hearted whose low sound gave no token of hollowness.</span> 
    <span id="f000151">When power bowed to flattery,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">honour was bound to plainness.</span> 
    <span id="f000153">For Lear’s threats,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">what could he do to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">whose life was already at his service?</span> 
    <span id="f000156">That should not hinder duty from speaking.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000157">The honest freedom of this good earl of Kent only stirred up the king’s wrath the more,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">and like a frantic patient who kills his physician,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">and loves his mortal disease,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">he banished this true servant,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">and allotted him but five days to make his preparations for departure;</span> 
    <span id="f000162">but if on the sixth his hated person was found within the realm of Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">that moment was to be his death.</span> 
    <span id="f000164">And Kent bade farewell to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">and said,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">that since he chose to show himself in such fashion,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">it was but banishment to stay there;</span> 
    <span id="f000168">and before he went,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">he recommended Cordelia to the protection of the gods,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">the maid who had so rightly thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">and so discreetly spoken;</span> 
    <span id="f000172">and only wished that her sisters’ large speeches might be answered with deeds of love;</span> 
    <span id="f000173">and then he went,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">as he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">to shape his old course to a new country.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000176">The king of France and duke of Burgundy were now called in to hear the determination of Lear about his youngest daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">and to know whether they would persist in their courtship to Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">now that she was under her father’s displeasure,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">and had no fortune but her own person to recommend her:</span> 
    <span id="f000180">and the duke of Burgundy declined the match,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">and would not take her to wife upon such conditions;</span> 
    <span id="f000182">but the king of France,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">understanding what the nature of the fault had been which had lost her the love of her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">that it was only a tardiness of speech,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">and the not being able to frame her tongue to flattery like her sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">took this young maid by the hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">and saying that her virtues were a dowry above a kingdom,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">bade Cordelia to take farewell of her sisters and of her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">though he had been unkind,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">and she should go with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">and be queen of him and of fair France,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">and reign over fairer possessions than her sisters:</span> 
    <span id="f000193">and he called the duke of Burgundy in contempt a waterish duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">because his love for this young maid had in a moment run all away like water.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000195">Then Cordelia with weeping eyes took leave of her sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">and besought them to love their father well,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">and make good their professions:</span> 
    <span id="f000198">and they sullenly told her not to prescribe to them,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">for they knew their duty;</span> 
    <span id="f000200">but to strive to content her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">who had taken her (as they tauntingly expressed it) as Fortune’s alms.</span> 
    <span id="f000202">And Cordelia with a heavy heart departed,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">for she knew the cunning of her sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">and she wished her father in better hands than she was about to leave him in.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000205">Cordelia was no sooner gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">than the devilish dispositions of her sisters began to show themselves in their true colours.</span> 
    <span id="f000207">Even before the expiration of the first month,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">which Lear was to spend by agreement with his eldest daughter Goneril,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">the old king began to find out the difference between promises and performances.</span> 
    <span id="f000210">This wretch having got from her father all that he had to bestow,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">even to the giving away of the crown from off his head,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">began to grudge even those small remnants of royalty which the old man had reserved to himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">to please his fancy with the idea of being still a king.</span> 
    <span id="f000214">She could not bear to see him and his hundred knights.</span> 
    <span id="f000215">Every time she met her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">she put on a frowning countenance;</span> 
    <span id="f000217">and when the old man wanted to speak with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">she would feign sickness,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">or anything to get rid of the sight of him;</span> 
    <span id="f000220">for it was plain that she esteemed his old age a useless burden,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">and his attendants an unnecessary expense:</span> 
    <span id="f000222">not only she herself slackened in her expressions of duty to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">but by her example,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">and (it is to be feared) not without her private instructions,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">her very servants affected to treat him with neglect,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">and would either refuse to obey his orders,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">or still more contemptuously pretend not to hear them.</span> 
    <span id="f000228">Lear could not but perceive this alteration in the behaviour of his daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">but he shut his eyes against it as long as he could,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">as people commonly are unwilling to believe the unpleasant consequences which their own mistakes and obstinacy have brought upon them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000231">True love and fidelity are no more to be estranged by ill,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">than falsehood and hollow-heartedness can be conciliated by good,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">usage.</span> 
    <span id="f000234">This eminently appears in the instance of the good earl of Kent,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">though banished by Lear,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">and his life made forfeit if he were found in Britain,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">chose to stay and abide all consequences,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">as long as there was a chance of his being useful to the king his master.</span> 
    <span id="f000240">See to what mean shifts and disguises poor loyalty is forced to submit sometimes;</span> 
    <span id="f000241">yet it counts nothing base or unworthy,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">so as it can but do service where it owes an obligation!</span> 
    <span id="f000243">In the disguise of a serving man,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">all his greatness and pomp laid aside,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">this good earl proffered his services to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">not knowing him to be Kent in that disguise,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">but pleased with a certain plainness,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">or rather bluntness in his answers,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">which the earl put on (so different from that smooth oily flattery which he had so much reason to be sick of,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">having found the effects not answerable in his daughter),</span> 
    <span id="f000252">a bargain was quickly struck,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">and Lear took Kent into his service by the name of Caius,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">as he called himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">never suspecting him to be his once great favourite,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">the high and mighty earl of Kent.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000257">This Caius quickly found means to show his fidelity and love to his royal master:</span> 
    <span id="f000258">for Goneril’s steward that same day behaving in a disrespectful manner to Lear,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">and giving him saucy looks and language,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">as no doubt he was secretly encouraged to do by his mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">Caius,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">not enduring to hear so open an affront put upon his majesty,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">made no more ado but presently tripped up his heels,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">and laid the unmannerly slave in the kennel;</span> 
    <span id="f000265">for which friendly service Lear became more and more attached to him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000266">Nor was Kent the only friend Lear had.</span> 
    <span id="f000267">In his degree,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">and as far as so insignificant a personage could show his love,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">the poor fool,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">or jester,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">that had been of his palace while Lear had a palace,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">as it was the custom of kings and great personages at that time to keep a fool (as he was called) to make them sport after serious business:</span> 
    <span id="f000273">this poor fool clung to Lear after he had given away his crown,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">and by his witty sayings would keep up his good humour,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">though he could not refrain sometimes from jeering at his master for his imprudence in uncrowning himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">and giving all away to his daughters;</span> 
    <span id="f000277">at which time,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">as he rhymingly expressed it,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">these daughters</span></p> 
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000280">For sudden joy did weep</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000281">And he for sorrow sung,</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000282">That such a king should play bo-peep</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000283">And go the fools among.</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000284">And in such wild sayings,</span> 
    <span id="f000285">and scraps of songs,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">of which he had plenty,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">this pleasant honest fool poured out his heart even in the presence of Goneril herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">in many a bitter taunt and jest which cut to the quick:</span> 
    <span id="f000289">such as comparing the king to the hedge-sparrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">who feeds the young of the cuckoo till they grow old enough,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">and then has its head bit off for its pains;</span> 
    <span id="f000292">and saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">that an ass may know when the cart draws the horse (meaning that Lear’s daughters,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">that ought to go behind,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">now ranked before their father);</span> 
    <span id="f000296">and that Lear was no longer Lear,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">but the shadow of Lear:</span> 
    <span id="f000298">for which free speeches he was once or twice threatened to be whipped.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000299">The coolness and falling off of respect which Lear had begun to perceive,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">were not all which this foolish fond father was to suffer from his unworthy daughter:</span> 
    <span id="f000301">she now plainly told him that his staying in her palace was inconvenient so long as he insisted upon keeping up an establishment of a hundred knights;</span> 
    <span id="f000302">that this establishment was useless and expensive,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">and only served to kill her court with riot and feasting;</span> 
    <span id="f000304">and she prayed him that he would lessen their number,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">and keep none but old men about him,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">such as himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">and fitting his age.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000308">Lear at first could not believe his eyes or ears,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">nor that it was his daughter who spoke so unkindly.</span> 
    <span id="f000310">He could not believe that she who had received a crown from him could seek to cut off his train,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">and grudge him the respect due to his old age.</span> 
    <span id="f000312">But she persisting in her undutiful demand,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">the old man’s rage was so excited,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">that he called her a detested kite,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">and said that she spoke an untruth;</span> 
    <span id="f000316">and so indeed she did,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">for the hundred knights were all men of choice behaviour and sobriety of manners,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">skilled in all particulars of duty,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">and not given to rioting or feasting,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">as she said.</span> 
    <span id="f000321">And he bid his horses to be prepared,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">for he would go to his other daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">Regan,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">he and his hundred knights;</span> 
    <span id="f000325">and he spoke of ingratitude,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">and said it was a marble-hearted devil,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">and showed more hideous in a child than the sea-monster.</span> 
    <span id="f000328">And he cursed his eldest daughter Goneril so as was terrible to hear;</span> 
    <span id="f000329">praying that she might never have a child,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">or if she had,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">that it might live to return that scorn and contempt upon her which she had shown to him that she might feel how sharper than a serpent’s tooth it was to have a thankless child.</span> 
    <span id="f000332">And Goneril’s husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000333">the duke of Albany,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">beginning to excuse himself for any share which Lear might suppose he had in the unkindness,</span> 
    <span id="f000335">Lear would not hear him out,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">but in a rage ordered his horses to be saddled,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">and set out with his followers for the abode of Regan,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">his other daughter.</span> 
    <span id="f000339">And Lear thought to himself how small the fault of Cordelia (if it was a fault) now appeared,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">in comparison with her sister’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">and he wept;</span> 
    <span id="f000342">and then he was ashamed that such a creature as Goneril should have so much power over his manhood as to make him weep.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000343">Regan and her husband were keeping their court in great pomp and state at their palace;</span> 
    <span id="f000344">and Lear despatched his servant Caius with letters to his daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">that she might be prepared for his reception,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">while he and his train followed after.</span> 
    <span id="f000347">But it seems that Goneril had been beforehand with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">sending letters also to Regan,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">accusing her father of waywardness and ill humours,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">and advising her not to receive so great a train as he was bringing with him.</span> 
    <span id="f000351">This messenger arrived at the same time with Caius,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">and Caius and he met:</span> 
    <span id="f000353">and who should it be but Caius’s old enemy the steward,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">whom he had formerly tripped up by the heels for his saucy behaviour to Lear.</span> 
    <span id="f000355">Caius not liking the fellow’s look,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">and suspecting what he came for,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">began to revile him,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">and challenged him to fight,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">which the fellow refusing,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">Caius,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">in a fit of honest passion,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">beat him soundly,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">as such a mischiefmaker and carrier of wicked messages deserved;</span> 
    <span id="f000364">which coming to the ears of Regan and her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">they ordered Caius to be put in the stocks,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">though he was a messenger from the king her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">and in that character demanded the highest respect:</span> 
    <span id="f000368">so that the first thing the king saw when he entered the castle,</span> 
    <span id="f000369">was his faithful servant Caius sitting in that disgraceful situation.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000370">This was but a bad omen of the reception which he was to expect;</span> 
    <span id="f000371">but a worse followed,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">when,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">upon inquiry for his daughter and her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">he was told they were weary with travelling all night,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">and could not see him;</span> 
    <span id="f000376">and when lastly,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">upon his insisting in a positive and angry manner to see them,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">they came to greet him,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">whom should he see in their company but the hated Goneril,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">who had come to tell her own story,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">and set her sister against the king her father!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000382">This sight much moved the old man,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">and still more to see Regan take her by the hand;</span> 
    <span id="f000384">and he asked Goneril if she was not ashamed to look upon his old white beard.</span> 
    <span id="f000385">And Regan advised him to go home again with Goneril,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">and live with her peaceably,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">dismissing half of his attendants,</span> 
    <span id="f000388">and to ask her forgiveness;</span> 
    <span id="f000389">for he was old and wanted discretion,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">and must be ruled and led by persons that had more discretion than himself.</span> 
    <span id="f000391">And Lear showed how preposterous that would sound,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">if he were to go down on his knees,</span> 
    <span id="f000393">and beg of his own daughter for food and raiment,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">and he argued against such an unnatural dependence,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">declaring his resolution never to return with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">but to stay where he was with Regan,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">he and his hundred knights;</span> 
    <span id="f000398">for he said that she had not forgot the half of the kingdom which he had endowed her with,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">and that her eyes were not fierce like Goneril’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000400">but mild and kind.</span> 
    <span id="f000401">And he said that rather than return to Goneril,</span> 
    <span id="f000402">with half his train cut off,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">he would go over to France,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">and beg a wretched pension of the king there,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">who had married his youngest daughter without a portion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000406">But he was mistaken in expecting kinder treatment of Regan than he had experienced from her sister Goneril.</span> 
    <span id="f000407">As if willing to outdo her sister in unequal behaviour,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">she declared that she thought fifty knights too many to wait upon him:</span> 
    <span id="f000409">that five-and-twenty were enough.</span> 
    <span id="f000410">Then Lear,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">nigh heart-broken,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">turned to Goneril and said that he would go back with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">for her fifty doubled five-and-twenty,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">and so her love was twice as much as Regan’s.</span> 
    <span id="f000415">But Goneril excused herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">and said,</span> 
    <span id="f000417">what -teed of so many as five-and-twenty?</span> 
    <span id="f000418">or even ten?</span> 
    <span id="f000419">or five?</span> 
    <span id="f000420">when he might be waited upon by her servants,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">or her sister’s servants?</span> 
    <span id="f000422">So these two wicked daughters,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">as if they strove to exceed each other in cruelty to their old father,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">who had been so good to them,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">by little and little would have abated him of all his train,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">all respect (little enough for him that once commanded a kingdom),</span> 
    <span id="f000427">which was left him to show that he had once been a king!</span> 
    <span id="f000428">Not that a splendid train is essential to happiness,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">but from a king to a beggar is a hard change,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">from commanding millions to be without one attendant;</span> 
    <span id="f000431">and it was the ingratitude in his daughters’ denying it,</span> 
    <span id="f000432">more than what he would suffer by the want of it,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">which pierced this poor king to the heart;</span> 
    <span id="f000434">insomuch,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">that with this double ill-usage,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">a vexation for having so foolishly given away a kingdom,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">his wits began to be unsettled,</span> 
    <span id="f000438">and while he said e knew not what,</span> 
    <span id="f000439">he vowed revenge against those unnatural hags,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">and to make examples of them that should be a terror to the earth!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000441">While he was thus idly threatening what his weak arm could never execute,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">night came on,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">and a loud storm of thunder and lightning with rain;</span> 
    <span id="f000444">and his daughters still persisting in their resolution not to admit his followers,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">he called for his horses,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">and chose rather to encounter the utmost fury of the storm abroad,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">than stay under the same roof with these ungrateful daughters:</span> 
    <span id="f000448">and they,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">saying that the injuries which wilful men procure to themselves are their just punishment,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">suffered him to go in that condition and shut their doors upon him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000451">The wind were high,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">and the rain and storm increased,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">when the old man sallied forth to combat with the elements,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">less sharp than his daughters’ unkindness.</span> 
    <span id="f000455">For many miles about there was scarce a bush;</span> 
    <span id="f000456">and there upon a heath,</span> 
    <span id="f000457">exposed to the fury of the storm in a dark night,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">did king Lear wander out,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">and defy the winds and the thunder;</span> 
    <span id="f000460">and he bid the winds to blow the earth into the sea,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">or swell the waves of the sea till they drowned the earth,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">that no token might remain of any such ungrateful animal as man.</span> 
    <span id="f000463">The old king was now left with no other companion than the poor fool,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">who still abided with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">with his merry conceits striving to outjest misfortune,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">saying it was but a naughty night to swim in,</span> 
    <span id="f000467">and truly the king had better go in and ask his daughter’s blessing:</span></p> 
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000468">But he that has a little tiny wit</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000469">With heigh ho, the wind and the rain!</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000470">Must make content with his fortunes fit</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000471">Though the rain it raineth every day:</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000472">and swearing it was a brave night to cool a lady’s pride.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000473">Thus poorly accompanied,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">this once great monarch was found by his ever-faithful servant the good earl of Kent,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">now transformed to Caius,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">who ever followed close at his side,</span> 
    <span id="f000477">though the king did not know him to be the earl;</span> 
    <span id="f000478">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000479">«Alas!</span> 
    <span id="f000480">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">are you here?</span> 
    <span id="f000482">creatures that love night,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">love not such nights as these.</span> 
    <span id="f000484">This dreadful storm has driven the beasts to their hiding places.</span> 
    <span id="f000485">Man’s nature cannot endure the affliction or the fear.» And Lear rebuked him and said,</span> 
    <span id="f000486">these lesser evils were not felt,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">where a greater malady was taxed.</span> 
    <span id="f000488">When the mind is at ease,</span> 
    <span id="f000489">the body has leisure to be delicate,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">but the temper in his mind did take all feeling else from his senses,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">but of that which beat at his heart.</span> 
    <span id="f000492">And he spoke of filial ingratitude,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">and said it was all one as if the mouth should tear the hand for lifting food to it;</span> 
    <span id="f000494">for parents were hands and food and everything to children.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000495">But the good Caius still persisting in his entreaties that the king would not stay out in the open air,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">at last persuaded him to enter a little wretched hovel which stood upon the heath,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">where the fool first entering,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">suddenly ran back terrified,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">saying that he had seen a spirit.</span> 
    <span id="f000500">But upon examination this spirit proved to be nothing more than a poor Bedlam beggar,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">who had crept into this deserted hovel for shelter,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">and with his talk about devils frighted the fool,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">one of those poor lunatics who are either mad,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">or feign to be so,</span> 
    <span id="f000505">the better to extort charity from the compassionate country people,</span> 
    <span id="f000506">who go about the country,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">calling themselves poor Tom and poor Turlygood,</span> 
    <span id="f000508">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000509">«Who gives anything to poor Tom?» sticking pins and nails and sprigs of rosemary into their arms to make them bleed;</span> 
    <span id="f000510">and with such horrible actions,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">partly by prayers,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">and partly with lunatic curses,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">they move or terrify the ignorant countryfolks into giving them alms.</span> 
    <span id="f000514">This poor fellow was such a one;</span> 
    <span id="f000515">and the king seeing him in so wretched a plight,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">with nothing but a blanket about his loins to cover his nakedness,</span> 
    <span id="f000517">could not be persuaded but that the fellow was some father who had given all away to his daughters,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">and brought himself to that pass:</span> 
    <span id="f000519">for nothing he thought could bring a man to such wretchedness but the having unkind daughters.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000520">And from this and many such wild speeches which he uttered,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">the good Caius plainly perceived that he was not in his perfect mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">but that his daughters’ ill usage had really made him go mad.</span> 
    <span id="f000523">And now the loyalty of this worthy earl of Kent showed itself in more essential services than he had hitherto found opportunity to perform.</span> 
    <span id="f000524">For with the assistance of some of the king’s attendants who remained loyal,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">he had the person of his royal master removed at daybreak to the castle of Dover,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">where his own friends and influence,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">as earl of Kent,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">chiefly lay;</span> 
    <span id="f000529">and himself embarking for France,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">hastened to the court of Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000531">and did there in such moving terms represent the pitiful condition of her royal father,</span> 
    <span id="f000532">and set out in such lively colours the inhumanity of her sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">that this good and loving child with many tears besought the king her husband that he would give her leave to embark for England,</span> 
    <span id="f000534">with a sufficient power to subdue these cruel daughters and their husbands,</span> 
    <span id="f000535">and restore the old king her father to his throne;</span> 
    <span id="f000536">which being granted,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">she set forth,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">and with a royal army landed at Dover.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000539">Lear having by some chance escaped from the guardians which the good earl of Kent had put over him to take care of him in his lunacy,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">was found by some of Cordelia’s train,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">wandering about the fields near Dover,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">in a pitiable condition,</span> 
    <span id="f000543">stark mad,</span> 
    <span id="f000544">and singing aloud to himself with a crown upon his head which he had made of straw,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">and nettles,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">and other wild weeds that he had picked up in the corn-fields.</span> 
    <span id="f000547">By the advice of the physicians,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">though earnestly desirous of seeing her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">was prevailed upon to put off the meeting,</span> 
    <span id="f000551">till by sleep and the operation of herbs which they gave him,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">he should be restored to greater composure.</span> 
    <span id="f000553">By the aid of these skilful physicians,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">to whom Cordelia promised all her gold and jewels for the recovery of the old king,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">Lear was soon in a condition to see his daughter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000556">A tender sight it was to see the meeting between this father and daughter;</span> 
    <span id="f000557">to see the struggles between the joy of this poor old king at beholding again his once darling child,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">and the shame at receiving such filial kindness from her whom he had cast off for so small a fault in his displeasure;</span> 
    <span id="f000559">both these passions struggling with the remains of his malady,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">which in his half-crazed brain sometimes made him that he scarce remembered where he was,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">or who it was that so kindly kissed him and spoke to him;</span> 
    <span id="f000562">and then he would beg the standers-by not to laugh at him,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">if he were mistaken in thinking this lady to be his daughter Cordelia!</span> 
    <span id="f000564">And then to see him fall on his knees to beg pardon of his child;</span> 
    <span id="f000565">and she,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">good lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">kneeling all the while to ask a blessing of him,</span> 
    <span id="f000568">and telling him that it did not become him to kneel,</span> 
    <span id="f000569">but it was her duty,</span> 
    <span id="f000570">for she was his child,</span> 
    <span id="f000571">his true and very child Cordial!</span> 
    <span id="f000572">and she kissed him (as she said) to kiss away all her sisters’ unkindness,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">and said that they might be ashamed of themselves,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">to turn their old kind father with his white beard out into the cold air,</span> 
    <span id="f000575">when her enemy’s dog,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">though it had bit her (as she prettily expressed it),</span> 
    <span id="f000577">should have stayed by her fire such a night as that,</span> 
    <span id="f000578">and warmed himself.</span> 
    <span id="f000579">And she told her father how she had come from France with purpose to bring him assistance;</span> 
    <span id="f000580">and he said that she must forget and forgive,</span> 
    <span id="f000581">for he was old and foolish,</span> 
    <span id="f000582">and did not know what he did,</span> 
    <span id="f000583">but that to be sure she had great cause not to love him,</span> 
    <span id="f000584">but her sisters had none.</span> 
    <span id="f000585">And Cordelia said that she had no cause,</span> 
    <span id="f000586">no more than they had.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000587">So we will leave this old king in the protection of his dutiful and loving child,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">where,</span> 
    <span id="f000589">by the help of sleep and medicine,</span> 
    <span id="f000590">she and her physicians at length succeeded in winding up the untuned and jarring senses which the cruelty of his other daughters had so violently shaken.</span> 
    <span id="f000591">Let us return to say a word or two about those cruel daughters.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000592">These monsters of ingratitude,</span> 
    <span id="f000593">who had been so false to their old father,</span> 
    <span id="f000594">could not be expected to prove more faithful to their own husbands.</span> 
    <span id="f000595">They soon grew tired of paying even the appearance of duty and affection,</span> 
    <span id="f000596">and in an open way showed they had fixed their loves upon another.</span> 
    <span id="f000597">It happened that the object of their guilty loves was the same.</span> 
    <span id="f000598">It was Edmund,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">a natural son of the late earl of Gloucester,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">who by his treacheries had succeeded in disinheriting his brother Edgar,</span> 
    <span id="f000601">the lawful heir,</span> 
    <span id="f000602">from his earldom,</span> 
    <span id="f000603">and by his wicked practices was now earl himself;</span> 
    <span id="f000604">a wicked man,</span> 
    <span id="f000605">and a fit object for the love of such wicked creatures as Goneril and Regan.</span> 
    <span id="f000606">It falling out about this time that the duke of Cornwall,</span> 
    <span id="f000607">Regan’s husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000608">died,</span> 
    <span id="f000609">Regan immediately declared her intention of wedding this earl of Gloucester,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">which rousing the jealousy of her sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000611">to whom as well as to Regan this wicked earl had at sundry times professed love,</span> 
    <span id="f000612">Goneril found means to make away with her sister by poison;</span> 
    <span id="f000613">but being detected in her practices,</span> 
    <span id="f000614">and imprisoned by her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000615">the duke of Albany,</span> 
    <span id="f000616">for this deed,</span> 
    <span id="f000617">and for her guilty passion for the earl which had come to his ears,</span> 
    <span id="f000618">she,</span> 
    <span id="f000619">in a ht of disappointed love and rage,</span> 
    <span id="f000620">shortly put an end to her own life.</span> 
    <span id="f000621">Thus the justice of Heaven at last overtook these wicked daughters.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000622">While the eyes of all men were upon this event,</span> 
    <span id="f000623">admiring the justice displayed in their deserved deaths,</span> 
    <span id="f000624">the same eyes were suddenly taken off from this sight to admire at the mysterious ways of the same power in the melancholy fate of the young and virtuous daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000625">the lady Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000626">whose good deeds did seem to deserve a more fortunate conclusion:</span> 
    <span id="f000627">but it is an awful truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000628">that innocence and piety are not always successful in this world.</span> 
    <span id="f000629">The forces which Goneril and Regan had sent out under the command of the bad earl of Gloucester were victorious,</span> 
    <span id="f000630">and Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000631">by the practices of this wicked earl,</span> 
    <span id="f000632">who did not like that any should stand between him and the throne,</span> 
    <span id="f000633">ended her life in prison.</span> 
    <span id="f000634">Thus,</span> 
    <span id="f000635">Heaven took this innocent lady to itself in her young years,</span> 
    <span id="f000636">after showing her to the world an illustrious example of filial duty.</span> 
    <span id="f000637">Lear did not long survive this kind child.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000638">Before he died,</span> 
    <span id="f000639">the good earl of Kent,</span> 
    <span id="f000640">who had still attended his old master’s steps from the first of his daughters’ ill usage to this sad period of his decay,</span> 
    <span id="f000641">tried to make him understand that it was he who had followed him under the name of Caius;</span> 
    <span id="f000642">but Lear’s care-crazed brain at that time could not comprehend how that could be,</span> 
    <span id="f000643">or how Kent and Caius could be the same person:</span> 
    <span id="f000644">so Kent thought it needless to trouble him with explanations at such a time;</span> 
    <span id="f000645">and Lear soon after expiring,</span> 
    <span id="f000646">this faithful servant to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000647">between age and grief for his old master’s vexations,</span> 
    <span id="f000648">soon followed him to the grave.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000649">How the judgment of Heaven overtook the bad earl of Gloucester,</span> 
    <span id="f000650">whose treasons were discovered,</span> 
    <span id="f000651">and himself slain in single combat with his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000652">the lawful earl;</span> 
    <span id="f000653">and how Goneril’s husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000654">the duke of Albany,</span> 
    <span id="f000655">who was innocent of the death of Cordelia,</span> 
    <span id="f000656">and had never encouraged his lady in her wicked proceedings against her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000657">ascended the throne of Britain after the death of Lear,</span> 
    <span id="f000658">is needless here to narrate;</span> 
    <span id="f000659">Lear and his Three Daughters being dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000660">whose adventures alone concern our story.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>