<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Macbeth</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">When Duncan the Meek reigned king of Scotland,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">there lived a great thane,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">or lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">called Macbeth.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">This Macbeth was a near kinsman to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">and in great esteem at court for his valour and conduct in the wars;</span> 
    <span id="f000008">an example of which he had lately given,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">in defeating a rebel army assisted by the troops of Norway in terrible numbers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">The two Scottish generals,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">Macbeth and Banquo,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">returning victorious from this great battle,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">their way lay over a blasted heath,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">where they were stopped by the strange appearance of three figures like women,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">except that they had beards,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">and their withered skins and wild attire made them look not like any earthly creatures.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Macbeth first addressed them,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">when they,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">seemingly offended,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">laid each one her choppy finger upon her skinny lips,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">in token of silence;</span> 
    <span id="f000022">and the first of them saluted Macbeth with the title of thane of Glamis.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">The general was not a little startled to find himself known by such creatures;</span> 
    <span id="f000024">but how much more,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">when the second of them followed up that salute by giving him the title of thane of Cawdor,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">to which honour he had no pretensions;</span> 
    <span id="f000027">and again the third bid him «All hail!</span> 
    <span id="f000028">king that shalt be hereafter!» Such a prophetic greeting might well amaze him,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">who knew that while the king’s sons lived he could not hope to succeed to the throne.</span> 
    <span id="f000030">Then turning to Banquo,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">they pronounced him,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">in a sort of riddling terms,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">to be lesser than Macbeth and greater!</span> 
    <span id="f000034">not so happy,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">but much happier!</span> 
    <span id="f000036">and prophesied that though he should never reign,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">yet his sons after him should be kings in Scotland.</span> 
    <span id="f000038">They then turned into air,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">and vanished:</span> 
    <span id="f000040">by which the generals knew them to be the weird sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">or witches.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000042">While they stood pondering on the strangeness of this adventure,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">there arrived certain messengers from the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">who were empowered by him to confer upon Macbeth the dignity of thane of Cawdor:</span> 
    <span id="f000045">an event so miraculously corresponding with the prediction of the witches astonished Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">and he stood wrapped in amazement,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">unable to make reply to the messengers;</span> 
    <span id="f000048">and in that point of time swelling hopes arose in his mind that the prediction of the third witch might in like manner have its accomplishment,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">and that he should one day reign king in Scotland.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000050">Turning to Banquo,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000052">«Do you not hope that your children shall be kings,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">when what the witches promised to me has so wonderfully come to pass?» «That hope,» answered the general,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">«might enkindle you to aim at the throne;</span> 
    <span id="f000055">but oftentimes these ministers of darkness tell us truths in little things,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">to betray us into deeds of greatest consequence.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">But the wicked suggestions of the witches had sunk too deep into the mind of Macbeth to allow him to attend to the warnings of the good Banquo.</span> 
    <span id="f000058">From that time he bent all his thoughts how to compass the throne of Scotland.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">Macbeth had a wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">to whom he communicated the strange prediction of the weird sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">and its partial accomplishment.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">She was a bad,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">ambitious woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">and so as her husband and herself could arrive at greatness,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">she cared not much by what means.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">She spurred on the reluctant purpose of Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">who felt compunction at the thoughts of blood,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and did not cease to represent the murder of the king as a step absolutely necessary to the fulfilment of the flattering prophecy.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">It happened at this time that the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">who out of his royal condescension would oftentimes visit his principal nobility upon gracious terms,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">came to Macbeth’s house,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">attended by his two sons,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">Malcolm and Donalbain,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">and a numerous train of thanes and attendants,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">the more to honour Macbeth for the triumphal success of his wars.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000076">The castle of Macbeth was pleasantly situated,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">and the air about it was sweet and wholesome,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">which appeared by the nests which the martlet,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">or swallow,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">had built under all the jutting friezes and buttresses of the building,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">wherever it found a place of advantage;</span> 
    <span id="f000082">for where those birds most breed and haunt,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">the air is observed to be delicate.</span> 
    <span id="f000084">The king entered well-pleased with the place,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">and not less so with the attentions and respect of his honoured hostess,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">lady Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">who had the art of covering treacherous purposes with smiles;</span> 
    <span id="f000088">and could look like the innocent flower,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">while she was indeed the serpent under it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000090">The king being tired with his journey,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">went early to bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">and in his state-room two grooms of his chamber (as was the custom) slept beside him.</span> 
    <span id="f000093">He had been unusually pleased with his reception,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">and had made presents before he retired to his principal officers;</span> 
    <span id="f000095">and among the rest,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">had sent a rich diamond to lady Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">greeting her by the name of his most kind hostess.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000098">Now was the middle of night,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">when over half the world nature seems dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">and wicked dreams abuse men’s minds asleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">and none but the wolf and the murderer is abroad.</span> 
    <span id="f000102">This was the time when lady Macbeth waked to plot the murder of the king.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">She would not have undertaken a deed so abhorrent to her sex,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">but that she feared her husband’s nature,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">that it was too full of the milk of human kindness,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">to do a contrived murder.</span> 
    <span id="f000107">She knew him to be ambitious,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">but withal to be scrupulous,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">and not yet prepared for that height of crime which commonly in the end accompanies inordinate ambition.</span> 
    <span id="f000110">She had won him to consent to the murder,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">but she doubted his resolution;</span> 
    <span id="f000112">and she feared that the natural tenderness of his disposition (more humane than her own) would come between,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and defeat the purpose.</span> 
    <span id="f000114">So with her own hands armed with a dagger,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">she approached the king’s bed;</span> 
    <span id="f000116">having taken care to ply the grooms of his chamber so with wine,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">that they slept intoxicated,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">and careless of their charge.</span> 
    <span id="f000119">There lay Duncan in a sound sleep after the fatigues of his journey,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">and as she viewed him earnestly,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">there was something in his face,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">as he slept,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">which resembled her own father;</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and she had not the courage to proceed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000125">She returned to confer with her husband.</span> 
    <span id="f000126">His resolution had begun to stagger.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">He considered that there were strong reasons against the deed.</span> 
    <span id="f000128">In the first place,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">he was not only a subject,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">but a near kinsman to the king;</span> 
    <span id="f000131">and he had been his host and entertainer that day,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">whose duty,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">by the laws of hospitality,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">it was to shut the door against his murderers,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">not bear the knife himself.</span> 
    <span id="f000136">Then he considered how just and merciful a king this Duncan had been,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">how clear of offence to his subjects,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">how loving to his nobility,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">and in particular to him;</span> 
    <span id="f000140">that such kings are the peculiar care of Heaven,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">and their subjects doubly bound to revenge their deaths.</span> 
    <span id="f000142">Besides,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">by the favours of the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">Macbeth stood high in the opinion of all sorts of men,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">and how would those honours be stained by the reputation of so foul a murder!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000146">In these conflicts of the mind lady Macbeth found her husband inclining to the better part,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">and resolving to proceed no further.</span> 
    <span id="f000148">But she being a woman not easily shaken from her evil purpose,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">began to pour in at his ears words which infused a portion of her own spirit into his mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">assigning reason upon reason why he should not shrink from what he had undertaken,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">how easy the deed was;</span> 
    <span id="f000152">how soon it would be over;</span> 
    <span id="f000153">and how the action of one short night would give to all their nights and days to come sovereign sway and royalty!</span> 
    <span id="f000154">Then she threw contempt on his change of purpose,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">and accused him of fickleness and cowardice;</span> 
    <span id="f000156">and declared that she had given suck,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">and knew how tender it was to love the babe that milked her;</span> 
    <span id="f000158">but she would,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">while it was smiling in her face,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">have plucked it from her breast,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">and dashed its brains out,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">if she had so sworn to do it,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">as he had sworn to perform that murder.</span> 
    <span id="f000164">Then she added,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">how practicable it was to lay the guilt of the deed upon the drunken sleepy grooms.</span> 
    <span id="f000166">And with the valour of her tongue she so chastised his sluggish resolutions,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">that he once more summoned up courage to the bloody business.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000168">So,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">taking the dagger in his hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">he softly stole in the dark to the room where Duncan lay;</span> 
    <span id="f000171">and as he went,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">he thought he saw another dagger in the air,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">with the handle towards him,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">and on the blade and at the point of it drops of blood;</span> 
    <span id="f000175">but when he tried to grasp at it,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">it was nothing but air,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">a mere phantasm proceeding from his own hot and oppressed brain and the business he had in hand.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">Getting rid of this fear,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">he entered the king’s room,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">whom he despatched with one stroke of his dagger.</span> 
    <span id="f000181">Just as he had done the murder,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">one of the grooms,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">who slept in the chamber,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">laughed in his sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">and the other cried:</span> 
    <span id="f000186">«Murder,» which woke them both,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">but they said a short prayer;</span> 
    <span id="f000188">one of them said:</span> 
    <span id="f000189">«God bless us!» and the other answered «Amen»;</span> 
    <span id="f000190">and addressed themselves to sleep again.</span> 
    <span id="f000191">Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">who stood listening to them,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">tried to say «Amen,» when the fellow said «God bless us!» but,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">though he had most need of a blessing,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">the word stuck in his throat,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">and he could not pronounce it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000197">Again he thought he heard a voice which cried:</span> 
    <span id="f000198">«Sleep no more:</span> 
    <span id="f000199">Macbeth doth murder sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">the innocent sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">that nourishes life.» Still it cried:</span> 
    <span id="f000202">«Sleep no more,» to all the house.</span> 
    <span id="f000203">«Glamis hath murdered sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">and therefore Cawdor shall sleep no more.</span> 
    <span id="f000205">Macbeth shall sleep no more.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000206">With such horrible imaginations Macbeth returned to his listening wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">who began to think he had failed of his purpose,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">and that the deed was somehow frustrated.</span> 
    <span id="f000209">He came in so distracted a state,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">that she reproached him with his want of firmness,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">and sent him to wash his hands of the blood which stained them,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">while she took his dagger,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">with purpose to stain the cheeks of the grooms with blood,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">to make it seem their guilt.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000215">Morning came,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">and with it the discovery of the murder,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">which could not be concealed;</span> 
    <span id="f000218">and though Macbeth and his lady made great show of grief,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">and the proofs against the grooms (the dagger being produced against them and their faces smeared with blood) were sufficiently strong,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">yet the entire suspicion fell upon Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">whose inducements to such a deed were so much more forcible than such poor silly grooms could be supposed to have;</span> 
    <span id="f000222">and Duncan’s two sons fled.</span> 
    <span id="f000223">Malcolm,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">the eldest,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">sought for refuge in the English court;</span> 
    <span id="f000226">and the youngest,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">Donalbain,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">made his escape to Ireland.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000229">The king’s sons,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">who should have succeeded him,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">having thus vacated the throne,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">Macbeth as next heir was crowned king,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">and thus the prediction of the weird sisters was literally accomplished.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000234">Though placed so high,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">Macbeth and his queen could not forget the prophecy of the weird sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">that,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">though Macbeth should be king,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">yet not his children,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">but the children of Banquo,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">should be kings after him.</span> 
    <span id="f000241">The thought of this,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">and that they had defiled their hands with blood,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">and done so great crimes,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">only to place the posterity of Banquo upon the throne,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">so rankled within them,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">that they determined to put to death both Banquo and his son,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">to make void the predictions of the weird sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">which in their own case had been so remarkably brought to pass.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000249">For this purpose they made a great supper,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">to which they invited all the chief thanes;</span> 
    <span id="f000251">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">among the rest,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">with marks of particular respect,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">Banquo and his son Fleance were invited.</span> 
    <span id="f000255">The way by which Banquo was to pass to the palace at night was beset by murderers appointed by Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">who stabbed Banquo;</span> 
    <span id="f000257">but in the scuffle Fleance escaped.</span> 
    <span id="f000258">From that Fleance descended a race of monarchs who afterwards filled the Scottish throne,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">ending with James the Sixth of Scotland and the First of England,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">under whom the two crowns of England and Scotland were united.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000261">At supper,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">the queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">whose manners were in the highest degree affable and royal,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">played the hostess with a gracefulness and attention which conciliated every one present,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">and Macbeth discoursed freely with his thanes and nobles,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000267">that all that was honourable in the country was under his roof,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">if he had but his good friend Banquo present,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">whom yet he hoped he should rather have to chide for neglect,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">than to lament for any mischance.</span> 
    <span id="f000271">Just at these words the ghost of Banquo,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">whom he had caused to be murdered,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">entered the room and placed himself on the chair which Macbeth was about to occupy.</span> 
    <span id="f000274">Though Macbeth was a bold man,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">and one that could have faced the devil without trembling,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">at this horrible sight his cheeks turned white with fear,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">and he stood quite unmanned with his eyes fixed upon the ghost.</span> 
    <span id="f000278">His queen and all the nobles,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">who saw nothing,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">but perceived him gazing (as they thought) upon an empty chair,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">took it for a fit of distraction;</span> 
    <span id="f000282">and she reproached him,</span> 
    <span id="f000283">whispering that it was but the same fancy which made him see the dagger in the air,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">when he was about to kill Duncan.</span> 
    <span id="f000285">But Macbeth continued to see the ghost,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">and gave no heed to all they could say,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">while he addressed it with distracted words,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">yet so significant,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">that his queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">fearing the dreadful secret would be disclosed,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">in great haste dismissed the guests,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">excusing the infirmity of Macbeth as a disorder he was often troubled with.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000293">To such dreadful fancies Macbeth was subject.</span> 
    <span id="f000294">His queen and he had their sleeps afflicted with terrible dreams,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">and the blood of Banquo troubled them not more than the escape of Fleance,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">whom now they looked upon as father to a line of kings who should keep their posterity out of the throne.</span> 
    <span id="f000297">With these miserable thoughts they found no peace,</span> 
    <span id="f000298">and Macbeth determined once more to seek out the weird sisters,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">and know from them the worst.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000300">He sought them in a cave upon the heath,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">where they,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">who knew by foresight of his coming,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">were engaged in preparing their dreadful charms,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">by which they conjured up infernal spirits to reveal to them futurity.</span> 
    <span id="f000305">Their horrid ingredients were toads,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">bats,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">and serpents,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">the eye of a newt,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">and the tongue of a dog,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">the leg of a lizard,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">and the wing of the night-owl,</span> 
    <span id="f000312">the scale of a dragon,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">the tooth of a wolf,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">the maw of the ravenous salt-sea shark,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">the mummy of a witch,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">the root of the poisonous hemlock (this to have effect must be digged in the dark),</span> 
    <span id="f000317">the gall of a goat,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">and the liver of a Jew,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">with slips of the yew tree that roots itself in graves,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">and the finger of a dead child:</span> 
    <span id="f000321">all these were set on to boil in a great kettle,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">or cauldron,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">which,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">as fast as it grew too hot,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">was cooled with a baboon’s blood:</span> 
    <span id="f000326">to these they poured in the blood of a sow that had eaten her young,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">and they threw into the flame the grease that had sweaten from a murderer’s gibbet.</span> 
    <span id="f000328">By these charms they bound the infernal spirits to answer their questions.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000329">It was demanded of Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">whether he would have his doubts resolved by them,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">or by their masters,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">the spirits.</span> 
    <span id="f000333">He,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">nothing daunted by the dreadful ceremonies which he saw,</span> 
    <span id="f000335">boldly answered:</span> 
    <span id="f000336">«Where are they?</span> 
    <span id="f000337">let me see them.» And they called the spirits,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">which were three.</span> 
    <span id="f000339">And the first arose in the likeness of an armed head,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">and he called Macbeth by name,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">and bid him beware of the thane of Fife;</span> 
    <span id="f000342">for which caution Macbeth thanked him;</span> 
    <span id="f000343">for Macbeth had entertained a jealousy of Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">the thane of Fife.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000345">And the second spirit arose in the likeness of a bloody child,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">and he called Macbeth by name,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">and bid him have no fear,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">but laugh to scorn the power of man,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">for none of woman born should have power to hurt him;</span> 
    <span id="f000350">and he advised him to be bloody,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">bold,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">and resolute.</span> 
    <span id="f000353">«Then live,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">Macduff!» cried the king;</span> 
    <span id="f000355">«what need I fear of thee?</span> 
    <span id="f000356">but yet I will make assurance doubly sure.</span> 
    <span id="f000357">Thou shalt not live;</span> 
    <span id="f000358">that I may tell pale-hearted Fear it lies,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">and sleep in spite of thunder.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000360">That spirit being dismissed,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">a third arose in the form of a child crowned,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">with a tree in his hand.</span> 
    <span id="f000363">He called Macbeth by name,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">and comforted him against conspiracies,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">that he should never be vanquished,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">until the wood of Birnam to Dunsinane Hill should come against him.</span> 
    <span id="f000368">«Sweet bodements!</span> 
    <span id="f000369">good!» cried Macbeth;</span> 
    <span id="f000370">«who can unfix the forest,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">and move it from its earth-bound roots?</span> 
    <span id="f000372">I see I shall live the usual period of man’s life,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">and not be cut off by a violent death.</span> 
    <span id="f000374">But my heart throbs to know one thing.</span> 
    <span id="f000375">Tell me,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">if your art can tell so much,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">if Banquo’s issue shall ever reign in this kingdom?» Here the cauldron sank into the ground,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">and a noise of music was heard,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">and eight shadows,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">like kings,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">passed by Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000382">and Banquo last,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">who bore a glass which showed the figures of many more,</span> 
    <span id="f000384">and Banquo all bloody smiled upon Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000385">and pointed to them;</span> 
    <span id="f000386">by which Macbeth knew that these were the posterity of Banquo,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">who should reign after him in Scotland;</span> 
    <span id="f000388">and the witches,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">with a sound of soft music,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">and with dancing,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">making a show of duty and welcome to Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">vanished.</span> 
    <span id="f000393">And from this time the thoughts of Macbeth were all bloody and dreadful.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000394">The first thing he heard when he got out of the witches’ cave,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">was that Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">thane of Fife,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">had fled to England,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">to join the army which was forming against him under Malcolm,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">the eldest son of the late king,</span> 
    <span id="f000400">with intent to displace Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">and set Malcolm,</span> 
    <span id="f000402">the right heir,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">upon the throne.</span> 
    <span id="f000404">Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">stung with rage,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">set upon the castle of Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">and put his wife and children,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">whom the thane had left behind,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">to the sword,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">and extended the slaughter to all who claimed the least relationship to Macduff.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000411">These and such-like deeds alienated the minds of all his chief nobility from him.</span> 
    <span id="f000412">Such as could,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">fled to join with Malcolm and Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">who were now approaching with a powerful army,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">which they had raised in England;</span> 
    <span id="f000416">and the rest secretly wished success to their arms,</span> 
    <span id="f000417">though for fear of Macbeth they could take no active part.</span> 
    <span id="f000418">His recruits went on slowly.</span> 
    <span id="f000419">Everybody hated the tyrant;</span> 
    <span id="f000420">nobody loved or honoured him;</span> 
    <span id="f000421">but all suspected him,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">and he began to envy the condition of Duncan,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">whom he had murdered,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">who slept soundly in his grave,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">against whom treason had done its worst:</span> 
    <span id="f000426">steel nor poison,</span> 
    <span id="f000427">domestic malice nor foreign levies,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">could hurt him any longer.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000429">While these things were acting,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">the queen,</span> 
    <span id="f000431">who had been the sole partner in his wickedness,</span> 
    <span id="f000432">in whose bosom he could sometimes seek a momentary repose from those terrible dreams which afflicted them both nightly,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">died,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">it is supposed,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">by her own hands,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">unable to bear the remorse of guilt,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">and public hate;</span> 
    <span id="f000438">by which event he was left alone,</span> 
    <span id="f000439">without a soul to love or care for him,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">or a friend to whom he could confide his wicked purposes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000441">He grew careless of life,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">and wished for death,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">but the near approach of Malcolm’s army roused in him what remained of his ancient courage,</span> 
    <span id="f000444">and he determined to die (as he expressed it) «with armour on his back.» Besides this,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">the hollow promises of the witches had filled him with a false confidence,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">and he remembered the sayings of the spirits,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">that none of woman born was to hurt him,</span> 
    <span id="f000448">and that he was never to be vanquished till Birnam wood should come to Dunsinane,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">which he thought could never be.</span> 
    <span id="f000450">So he shut himself up in his castle,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">whose impregnable strength was such as defied a siege:</span> 
    <span id="f000452">here he sullenly waited the approach of Malcolm.</span> 
    <span id="f000453">When,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">upon a day,</span> 
    <span id="f000455">there came a messenger to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">pale and shaking with fear,</span> 
    <span id="f000457">almost unable to report that which he had seen;</span> 
    <span id="f000458">for he averred,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">that as he stood upon his watch on the hill,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">he looked towards Birnam,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">and to his thinking the wood began to move!</span> 
    <span id="f000462">«Liar and slave!» cried Macbeth:</span> 
    <span id="f000463">«if thou speakest false,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">thou shalt hang alive upon the next tree,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">till famine end thee.</span> 
    <span id="f000466">If thy tale be true,</span> 
    <span id="f000467">I care not if thou cost as much by me»:</span> 
    <span id="f000468">for Macbeth now began to faint in resolution,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">and to doubt the equivocal speeches of the spirits.</span> 
    <span id="f000470">He was not to fear till Birnam wood should come to Dunsinane;</span> 
    <span id="f000471">and now a wood did move!</span> 
    <span id="f000472">«However,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">«if this which he avouches be true,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">let us arm and out.</span> 
    <span id="f000475">There is no flying hence,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">nor staying here.</span> 
    <span id="f000477">I begin to be weary of the sun,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">and wish my life at an end.» With these desperate speeches he sallied forth upon the besiegers,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">who had now come up to the castle.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000480">The strange appearance which had given the messenger an idea of a wood moving is easily solved.</span> 
    <span id="f000481">When the besieging army marched through the wood of Birnam,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">Malcolm,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">like a skilful general,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">instructed his soldiers to hew down every one a bough and bear it before him,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">by way of concealing the true numbers of his host.</span> 
    <span id="f000486">This marching of the soldiers with boughs had at a distance the appearance which had frightened the messenger.</span> 
    <span id="f000487">Thus were the words of the spirit brought to pass,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">in a sense different from that in which Macbeth had understood them,</span> 
    <span id="f000489">and one great hold of his confidence was gone.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000490">And now a severe skirmishing took place,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">in which Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000492">though feebly supported by those who called themselves his friends,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">but in reality hated the tyrant and inclined to the party of Malcolm and Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">yet fought with the extreme of rage and valour,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">cutting to pieces all who were opposed to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">till he came to where Macduff was fighting.</span> 
    <span id="f000497">Seeing Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">and remembering the caution of the spirit who had counselled him to avoid Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">above all men,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">he would have turned,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">but Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">who had been seeking him through the whole fight,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">opposed his turning,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">and a fierce contest ensued;</span> 
    <span id="f000505">Macduff giving him many foul reproaches for the murder of his wife and children.</span> 
    <span id="f000506">Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">whose soul was charged enough with blood of that family already,</span> 
    <span id="f000508">would still have declined the combat:</span> 
    <span id="f000509">but Macduff still urged him to it,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">calling him tyrant,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">murderer,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">hell-hound,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">and villain.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000514">Then Macbeth remembered the words of the spirit,</span> 
    <span id="f000515">how none of woman born should hurt him;</span> 
    <span id="f000516">and smiling confidently he said to Macduff:</span> 
    <span id="f000517">«Thou losest thy labour,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">Macduff.</span> 
    <span id="f000519">As easily thou mayest impress the air with thy sword,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">as make me vulnerable.</span> 
    <span id="f000521">I bear a charmed life,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">which must not yield to one of woman born.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000523">«Despair thy charm,» said Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">«and let that lying spirit whom thou hast served,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">tell thee,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">that Macduff was never born of woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">never as the ordinary manner of men is to be born,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">but was untimely taken from his mother.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000529">«Accursed be the tongue which tells me so,» said the trembling Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">who felt his last hold of confidence give way;</span> 
    <span id="f000531">«and let never man in future believe the lying equivocations of witches and juggling spirits,</span> 
    <span id="f000532">who deceive us in words which have double senses,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">and while they keep their promise literally,</span> 
    <span id="f000534">disappoint our hopes with a different meaning.</span> 
    <span id="f000535">I will not fight with thee.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000536">«Then live!» said the scornful Macduff;</span> 
    <span id="f000537">«we will have a show of thee,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">as men show monsters,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">and a painted board,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">on which shall be written:</span> 
    <span id="f000541">’Here men may see the tyrant!’»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000542">«Never,» said Macbeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000543">whose courage returned with despair;</span> 
    <span id="f000544">«I will not live to kiss the ground before young Malcolm’s feet,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">and to be baited with the curses of the rabble.</span> 
    <span id="f000546">Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane,</span> 
    <span id="f000547">and thou opposed to me,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">who wast never born of woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">yet will I try the last.» With these frantic words he threw himself upon Macduff,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000551">after a severe struggle,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">in the end overcame him,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">and cutting off his head,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">made a present of it to the young and lawful king,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">Malcolm;</span> 
    <span id="f000556">who took upon him the government which,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">by the machinations of the usurper,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">he had so long been deprived of,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">and ascended the throne of Duncan the Meek,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">amid the acclamations of the nobles and the people.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>