<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track13">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p014.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">All’s Well That Ends Well</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">count of Rousillon,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">had newly come to his title and estate,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">by the death of his father.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">The king of France loved the father of Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">and when he heard of his death,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">he sent for his son to come immediately to his royal court in Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">intending,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">for the friendship he bore the late count,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">to grace young Bertram with his especial favour and protection.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000012">Bertram was living with his mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">the widowed countess,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">when Lafeu,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">an old lord of the French court,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">came to conduct him to the king.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">The king of France was an absolute monarch,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">and the invitation to court was in the form of a royal mandate,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">or positive command,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">which no subject,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">of what high dignity soever,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">might disobey;</span> 
    <span id="f000023">therefore though the countess,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">in parting with this dear son,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">seemed a second time to bury her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">whose loss she had so lately mourned,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">yet she dared not to keep him a single day,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">but gave instant orders for his departure.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">Lafeu,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">who came to fetch him,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">tried to comfort the countess for the loss of her late lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">and her son’s sudden absence;</span> 
    <span id="f000033">and he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">in a courtier’s flattering manner,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">that the king was so kind a prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">she would find in his majesty a husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">and that he would be a father to her son;</span> 
    <span id="f000038">meaning only,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">that the good king would befriend the fortunes of Bertram.</span> 
    <span id="f000040">Lafeu told the countess that the king had fallen into a sad malady,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">which was pronounced by his physicians to be incurable.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">The lady expressed great sorrow on hearing this account of the king’s ill health,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">and said,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">she wished the father of Helena (a young gentlewoman who was present in attendance upon her) were living,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">for that she doubted not he could have cured his majesty of his disease.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">And she told Lafeu something of the history of Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">saying she was the only daughter of the famous physician Gerard de Narbon,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">and that he had recommended his daughter to her care when he was dying,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">so that since his death she had taken Helena under her protection;</span> 
    <span id="f000050">then the countess praised the virtuous disposition and excellent qualities of Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">saying she inherited these virtues from her worthy father.</span> 
    <span id="f000052">While she was speaking,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">Helena wept in sad and mournful silence,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">which made the countess gently reprove her for too much grieving for her father’s death.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000055">Bertram now bade his mother farewell.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">The countess parted with this dear son with tears and many blessings,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">and commended him to the care of Lafeu,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000059">«Good my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">advise him,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">for he is an unseasoned courtier.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000062">Bertram’s last words were spoken to Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">but they were words of mere civility,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">wishing her happiness;</span> 
    <span id="f000065">and he concluded his short farewell to her with saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000066">«Be comfortable to my mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">your mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and make much of her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">Helena had long loved Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">and when she wept in sad mournful silence,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">the tears she shed were not for Gerard de Narbon.</span> 
    <span id="f000072">Helena loved her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">but in the present feeling of a deeper love,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">the object of which she was about to lose,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">she had forgotten the very form and features of her dead father,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">her imagination presenting no image to her mind but Bertram’s.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000077">Helena had long loved Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">yet she always remembered that he was the count of Rousillon,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">descended from the most ancient family in France.</span> 
    <span id="f000080">She of humble birth.</span> 
    <span id="f000081">Her parents of no note at all.</span> 
    <span id="f000082">His ancestors all noble.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">And therefore she looked up to the high-born Bertram as to her master and to her dear lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">and dared not form any wish but to live his servant,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">and so living to die his vassal.</span> 
    <span id="f000086">So great the distance seemed to her between his height of dignity and her lowly fortunes,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">that she would day:</span> 
    <span id="f000088">«It were all one that I should love a bright particular star,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">and think to wed it,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">Bertram is so far above me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000091">Bertram’s absence filled her eyes with tears and her heart with sorrow;</span> 
    <span id="f000092">for though she loved without hope,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">yet it was a pretty comfort to her to see him every hour,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">and Helena would sit and look upon his dark eye,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">his arched brow,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">and the curls of his fine hair,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">till she seemed to draw his portrait on the tablet of her heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">that heart too capable of retaining the memory of every line in the features of that loved face.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000099">Gerard de Narbon,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">when he died,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">left her no other portion than some prescriptions of rare and well-proved virtue,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">which by deep study and long experience in medicine he had collected as sovereign and almost infallible remedies.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">Among the rest,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">there was one set down as an approved medicine for the disease under which Lafeu said the king at that time languished:</span> 
    <span id="f000105">and when Helena heard of the king’s complaint,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">she,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">who till now had been so humble and so hopeless,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">formed an ambitious project in her mind to go herself to Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">and undertake the cure of the king.</span> 
    <span id="f000110">But though Helena was the possessor of this choice prescription,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">it was unlikely,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">as the king as well as his physicians was of opinion that his disease was incurable,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">that they would give credit to a poor unlearned virgin,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">if she should offer to perform a cure.</span> 
    <span id="f000115">The firm hopes that Helena had of succeeding,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">if she might be permitted to make the trial,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">seemed more than even her father’s skill warranted,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">though he was the most famous physician of his time;</span> 
    <span id="f000119">for she felt a strong faith that this good medicine was sanctified by all the luckiest stars in heaven to be the legacy that should advance her fortune,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">even to the high dignity of being count Rousillon’s wife.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">Bertram had not been long gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">when the countess was informed by her steward,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">that he had overheard Helena talking to herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and that he understood from some words she uttered,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">she was in love with Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">and thought of following him to Paris.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">The countess dismissed the steward with thanks,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">and desired him to tell Helena she wished to speak with her.</span> 
    <span id="f000129">What she had just heard of Helena brought the remembrance of days long past into the mind of the countess;</span> 
    <span id="f000130">those days probably when her love for Bertram’s father first began;</span> 
    <span id="f000131">and she said to herself:</span> 
    <span id="f000132">«Even so it was with me when I was young.</span> 
    <span id="f000133">Love is a thorn that belongs to the rose of youth;</span> 
    <span id="f000134">for in the season of youth,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">if ever we are nature’s children,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">these faults are ours,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">though then we think not they are faults.» While the countess was thus meditating on the loving errors of her own youth,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">Helena entered,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">and she said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000140">«Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">you know I am a mother to you.» Helena replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000142">«You are my honourable mistress.» «You are my daughter,» said the countess again:</span> 
    <span id="f000143">«I say I am your mother.</span> 
    <span id="f000144">Why do you start and look pale at my words?» With looks of alarm and confused thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">fearing the countess suspected her love,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">Helena still replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000147">«Pardon me,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">madam,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">you are not my mother;</span> 
    <span id="f000150">the count Rousillon cannot be my brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">nor I your daughter.» «Yet,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">Helena,» said the countess,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">«you might be my daughter-in-law;</span> 
    <span id="f000154">and I am afraid that is what you mean to be,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">the words mother and daughter so disturb you.</span> 
    <span id="f000156">Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">do you love my son?» «Good madam,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">pardon me,» said the affrighted Helena.</span> 
    <span id="f000159">Again the countess repeated her question.</span> 
    <span id="f000160">«Do you love my son?» «Do not you love him,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">madam?» said Helena.</span> 
    <span id="f000162">The countess replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000163">«Give me not this evasive answer,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">Helena.</span> 
    <span id="f000165">Come,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">come,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">disclose the state of your affections,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">for your love has to the full appeared.» Helena on her knees now owned her love,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">and with shame and terror implored the pardon of her noble mistress;</span> 
    <span id="f000170">and with words expressive of the sense she had of the inequality between their fortunes,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">she protested Bertram did not know she loved him,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">comparing her humble unaspiring love to a poor Indian,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">who adores the sun that looks upon his worshipper,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">but knows of him no more.</span> 
    <span id="f000175">The countess asked Helena if she had not lately an intent to go to Paris?</span> 
    <span id="f000176">Helena owned the design she had formed in her mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">when she heard Lafeu speak of the king’s illness.</span> 
    <span id="f000178">«This was your motive for wishing to go to Paris,» said the countess,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">«was it?</span> 
    <span id="f000180">Speak truly.» Helena honestly answered:</span> 
    <span id="f000181">«My lord your son made me to think of this;</span> 
    <span id="f000182">else Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">and the medicine,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">and the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">had from the conversation of my thoughts been absent then.» The countess heard the whole of this confession without saying a word either of approval or of blame,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">but she strictly questioned Helena as to the probability of the medicine being useful to the king.</span> 
    <span id="f000187">She found that it was the most prized by Gerard de Narbon of all he possessed,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">and that he had given it to his daughter on his deathbed;</span> 
    <span id="f000189">and remembering the solemn promise she had made at that awful hour in regard to this young maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">whose destiny,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">and the life of the king himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">seemed to depend on the execution of a project (which though conceived by the fond,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">suggestions of a loving maiden’s thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">the countess knew not but it might be the unseen workings of Providence to bring to pass the recovery of the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">and to lay the foundation of the future fortunes of Gerard de Narbon’s daughter),</span> 
    <span id="f000196">free leave she gave to Helena to pursue her own way,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">and generously furnished her with ample means and suitable attendants;</span> 
    <span id="f000198">and Helena set out for Paris with the blessings of the countess,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">and her kindest wishes for her success.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000200">Helena arrived at Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">and by the assistance of her friend the old lord Lafeu,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">she obtained an audience of the king.</span> 
    <span id="f000203">She had still many difficulties to encounter,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">for the king was not easily prevailed on to try the medicine offered him by this fair young doctor.</span> 
    <span id="f000205">But she told him she was Gerard de Narbon’s daughter (with whose fame the king was well acquainted),</span> 
    <span id="f000206">and she offered the precious medicine as the darling treasure which contained the essence of all her father’s long experience and skill,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">and she boldly engaged to forfeit her life,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">if it failed to restore his majesty to perfect health in the space of two days.</span> 
    <span id="f000209">The king at length consented to try it,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">and in two days’ time Helena was to lose her life if the king did not recover;</span> 
    <span id="f000211">but if she succeeded,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">he promised to give her the choice of any man throughout all France (the princes only excepted) whom she could like for a husband;</span> 
    <span id="f000213">the choice of a husband being the fee Helena demanded if she cured the king of his disease.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000214">Helena did not deceive herself in the hope she conceived of the efficacy of her father’s medicine.</span> 
    <span id="f000215">Before two days were at an end,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">the king was restored to perfect health,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">and he assembled all the young noblemen of his court together,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">in order to confer the promised reward of a husband upon his fair physician;</span> 
    <span id="f000219">and he desired Helena to look round on this youthful parcel of noble bachelors,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">and choose her husband.</span> 
    <span id="f000221">Helena was not slow to make her choice,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">for among these young lords she saw the count Rousillon,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">and turning to Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000225">«This is the man.</span> 
    <span id="f000226">I dare not say,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">I take you,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">but I give me and my service ever whilst I live into your guiding power.» «Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">then,» said the king «young Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">take her;</span> 
    <span id="f000232">she is your wife.» Bertram did not hesitate to declare his dislike to this present of the king’s of the self-offered Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">was a poor physician’s daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">bred at his father’s charge,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">and now living a dependent on his mother’s bounty.</span> 
    <span id="f000238">Helena heard him speak these words of rejection and of scorn,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">and she said to the king:</span> 
    <span id="f000240">«That you are well,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">I am glad.</span> 
    <span id="f000243">Let the rest go.» But the king would not suffer his royal command to be so slighted;</span> 
    <span id="f000244">for the power of bestowing their nobles in marriage was one of the many privileges of the kings of France;</span> 
    <span id="f000245">and that same day Bertram was married to Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">a forced and uneasy marriage to Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">and of no promising hope to the poor lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">though she gained the noble husband she had hazarded her life to obtain,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">seemed to have won but a splendid blank,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">her husband’s love not being a gift in the power of the king of France to bestow.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000252">Helena was no sooner married than she was desired by Bertram to apply to the king for him for leave of absence from court;</span> 
    <span id="f000253">and when she brought him the king’s permission for his departure,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">Bertram told her that he was not prepared for this sudden marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">it had much unsettled him,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">and therefore she must not wonder at the course he should pursue.</span> 
    <span id="f000257">If Helena wondered not,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">she grieved when she found it was his intention to leave her.</span> 
    <span id="f000259">He ordered her to go home to his mother.</span> 
    <span id="f000260">When Helena heard this unkind command,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">she replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000262">«Sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">I can nothing say to this,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">but that I am your most obedient servant,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">and shall ever with true observance seek to eke out that desert,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">wherein my homely stars have failed to equal my great fortunes.» But this humble speech of Helena’s did not at all move the haughty Bertram to pity his gentle wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000267">and he parted from her without even the common civility of a kind farewell.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000268">Back to the countess then Helena returned.</span> 
    <span id="f000269">She had accomplished the purport of her journey,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">she had preserved the life of the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">and she had wedded her heart’s dear lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">the count Rousillon;</span> 
    <span id="f000273">but she returned back a dejected lady to her noble mother-in-law,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">and as soon as she entered the house she received a letter from Bertram which almost broke her heart.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000275">The good countess received her with a cordial welcome,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">as if she had been her son’s own choice,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">and a lady of a high degree,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">and she spoke kind words to comfort her for the unkind neglect of Bertram in sending his wife home on her bridal day alone.</span> 
    <span id="f000279">But this gracious reception failed to cheer the sad mind of Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000281">«Madam my lord is gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000282">for ever gone.» She then read these words out of Bertram’s letter:</span> 
    <span id="f000283">When you can get the ring from my finger,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">which never shall come off,</span> 
    <span id="f000285">then call me husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">but in such a Then I write a Never.</span> 
    <span id="f000287">«This is a dreadful sentence!» said Helena.</span> 
    <span id="f000288">The countess begged her to have patience,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">and said,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">now Bertram was gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">she should be her child,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">and that she deserved a lord that twenty such rude boys as Bertram might tend upon,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">and hourly call her mistress.</span> 
    <span id="f000294">But in vain by respectful condescension and kind flattery this matchless mother tried to soothe the sorrows of her daughter-in-law.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000295">Helena still kept her eyes fixed upon the letter,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">and cried out in an agony of grief:</span> 
    <span id="f000297">Till I have no wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000298">I have nothing in France.</span> 
    <span id="f000299">The countess asked her if she found those words in the letter?</span> 
    <span id="f000300">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">madam,» was all poor Helena could answer.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000302">The next morning Helena was missing.</span> 
    <span id="f000303">She left a letter to be delivered to the countess after she was gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">to acquaint her with the reason of her sudden absence:</span> 
    <span id="f000305">in this letter she informed her that she was so much grieved at having driven Bertram from his native country and his home,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">that to atone for her offence,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">she had undertaken a pilgrimage to the shrine of St.</span> 
    <span id="f000308">Jaques le Grand,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">and concluded with requesting the countess to inform her son that the wife he so hated had left his house for ever.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000310">Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">when he left Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000312">went to Florence,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">and there became an officer in the duke of Florence’s army,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">and after a successful war,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">in which he distinguished himself by many brave actions,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">Bertram received letters from his mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">containing the acceptable tidings that Helena would no more disturb him;</span> 
    <span id="f000318">and he was preparing to return home,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">when Helena herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">clad in her pilgrim’s weeds,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">arrived at the city of Florence.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000322">Florence was a city through which the pilgrims used to pass on their way to St.</span> 
    <span id="f000323">Jaques le Grand;</span> 
    <span id="f000324">and when Helena arrived at this city,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">she heard that a hospitable widow dwelt there,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">who used to receive into her house the female pilgrims that were going to visit the shrine of that saint,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">giving them lodging and kind entertainment.</span> 
    <span id="f000328">To this good lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">therefore,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">Helena went,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">and the widow gave her a courteous welcome,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">and invited her to see whatever was curious in that famous city,</span> 
    <span id="f000333">and told her that if she would like to see the duke’s army,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">she would take her where she might have a full view of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000335">«And you will see a countryman of yours,» said the widow;</span> 
    <span id="f000336">«his name is count Rousillon,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">who has done worthy service in the duke’s wars.» Helena wanted no second invitation,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">when she found Bertram was to make part of the show.</span> 
    <span id="f000339">She accompanied her hostess;</span> 
    <span id="f000340">and a sad and mournful pleasure it was to her to look once more upon her dear husband’s face.</span> 
    <span id="f000341">«Is he not a handsome man?» said the widow.</span> 
    <span id="f000342">«I like him well,» replied Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">with great truth.</span> 
    <span id="f000344">All the way they walked,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">the talkative widow’s discourse was all of Bertram:</span> 
    <span id="f000346">she told Helena the story of Bertram’s marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">and how he had deserted the poor lady his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">and entered into the duke’s army to avoid living with her.</span> 
    <span id="f000349">To this account of her own misfortunes Helena patiently listened,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">and when it was ended,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">the history of Bertram was not yet done,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">for then the widow began another tale,</span> 
    <span id="f000353">every word of which sank deep into the mind of Helena;</span> 
    <span id="f000354">for the story she now told was of Bertram’s love for her daughter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000355">Though Bertram did not like the marriage forced on him by the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">it seems he was not insensible to love,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">for since he had been stationed with the army at Florence,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">he had fallen in love with Diana,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">a fair young gentlewoman,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">the daughter of this widow who was Helena’s hostess;</span> 
    <span id="f000361">and every night,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">with music of all sorts,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">and songs composed in praise of Diana’s beauty,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">he would come under her window,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">and solicit her love;</span> 
    <span id="f000366">and all his suit to her was,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">that she would permit him to visit her by stealth after the family were retired to rest;</span> 
    <span id="f000368">but Diana would by no means be persuaded to grant this improper request,</span> 
    <span id="f000369">nor give any encouragement to his suit,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">knowing him to be a married man;</span> 
    <span id="f000371">for Diana had been brought up under the counsels of a prudent mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">though she was now in reduced circumstances,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">was well born,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">and descended from the noble family of the Capulets.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000376">All this the good lady related to Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">highly praising the virtuous principles of her discreet daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">which she said were entirely owing to the excellent education and good advice she had given her;</span> 
    <span id="f000379">and she further said,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">that Bertram had been particularly importunate with Diana to admit him to the visit he so much desired that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">because he was going to leave Florence early the next morning.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000382">Though it grieved Helena to hear of Bertram’s love for the widow’s daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">yet from the story the ardent mind of Helena conceived a project (nothing discouraged at the ill success of her former one) to recover her truant lord.</span> 
    <span id="f000384">She disclosed to the widow that she was Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000385">the deserted wife of Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">and requested that her kind hostess and her daughter would suffer this visit from Bertram to take place,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">and allow her to pass herself upon Bertram for Diana;</span> 
    <span id="f000388">telling them,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">her chief motive for desiring to have this secret meeting with her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">was to get a ring from him,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">which he had said,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">if ever she was in possession of he would acknowledge her as his wife.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000393">The widow and her daughter promised to assist her in this affair,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">partly moved by pity for this unhappy forsaken wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">and partly won over to her interest by the promises of reward which Helena made them,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">giving them a purse of money in earnest of her future favour.</span> 
    <span id="f000397">In the course of that day Helena caused information to be sent to Bertram that she was dead;</span> 
    <span id="f000398">hoping that when he thought himself free to make a second choice by the news of her death,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">he would offer marriage to her in her feigned character of Diana.</span> 
    <span id="f000400">And if she could obtain the ring and this promise too,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">she doubted not she should make some future good come of it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000402">In the evening,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">after it was dark,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">Bertram was admitted into Diana’s chamber,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">and Helena was there ready to receive him.</span> 
    <span id="f000406">The flattering compliments and love discourse he addressed to Helena were precious sounds to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">though she knew they were meant for Diana;</span> 
    <span id="f000408">and Bertram was so well pleased with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">that he made her a solemn promise to be her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">and to love her for ever;</span> 
    <span id="f000411">which she hoped would be prophetic of a real affection,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">when he should know it was his own wife the despised Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">whose conversation had so delighted him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000414">Bertram never knew how sensible a lady Helena was,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">else perhaps he would not have been so regardless of her;</span> 
    <span id="f000416">and seeing her every day,</span> 
    <span id="f000417">he had entirely overlooked her beauty;</span> 
    <span id="f000418">a face we are accustomed to see constantly,</span> 
    <span id="f000419">losing the effect which is caused by the first sight either of beauty or of plainness;</span> 
    <span id="f000420">and of her understanding it was impossible he should judge,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">because she felt such reverence,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">mixed with her love for him,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">that she was always silent in his presence:</span> 
    <span id="f000424">but now that her future fate,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">and the happy ending of all her love-projects,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">seemed to depend on her leaving a favourable impression on the mind of Bertram from this night’s interview,</span> 
    <span id="f000427">she exerted all her wit to please him;</span> 
    <span id="f000428">and the simple graces of her lively conversation and the endearing sweetness of her manners so charmed Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">that he vowed she should be his wife.</span> 
    <span id="f000430">Helena begged the ring from off his finger as a token of his regard,</span> 
    <span id="f000431">and he gave it to her;</span> 
    <span id="f000432">and in return for this ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">which it was of such importance to her to possess,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">she gave him another ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">which was one the king had made her a present of.</span> 
    <span id="f000436">Before it was light in the morning,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">she sent Bertram away;</span> 
    <span id="f000438">and he immediately set out on his journey towards his mother’s house.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000439">Helena prevailed on the widow and Diana to accompany her to Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">their further assistance being necessary to the full accomplishment of the plan she had formed.</span> 
    <span id="f000441">When they arrived there,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">they found the king was gone upon a visit to the countess of Rousillon,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">and Helena followed the king with all the speed she could make.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000444">The king was still in perfect health,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">and his gratitude to her who had been the means of his recovery was so lively in his mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">that the moment he saw the countess of Rousillon,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">he began to talk of Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000448">calling her a precious jewel that was lost by the folly of her son;</span> 
    <span id="f000449">but seeing the subject distressed the countess,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">who sincerely lamented the death of Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000452">«My good lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">I have forgiven and forgotten all.» But the good-natured old Lafeu,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">who was present,</span> 
    <span id="f000455">and could not bear that the memory of his favourite Helena should be so lightly passed over,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000457">«This I must say,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">the young lord did great offence to his majesty,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">his mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">and his lady;</span> 
    <span id="f000461">but to himself he did the greatest wrong of all,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">for he has lost a wife whose beauty astonished all eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000463">whose words took all ears captive,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">whose deep perfection made all hearts wish to serve her.» The king said:</span> 
    <span id="f000465">«Praising what is lost makes the remembrance dear.</span> 
    <span id="f000466">Well — call him hither»;</span> 
    <span id="f000467">meaning Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">who now presented himself before the king:</span> 
    <span id="f000469">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000470">on his expressing deep sorrow for the injuries he had done to Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000472">for his dead father’s and his admirable mother’s sake,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">pardoned him and restored him once more to his favour.</span> 
    <span id="f000474">But the gracious countenance of the king was soon changed towards him,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">for he perceived that Bertram wore the very ring upon his finger which he had given to Helena:</span> 
    <span id="f000476">and he well remembered that Helena had called all the saints in heaven to witness she would never part with that ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000477">unless she sent it to the king himself upon some great disaster befalling her;</span> 
    <span id="f000478">and Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">on the king’s questioning him how he came by the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">told an improbable story of a lady throwing it to him out of a window,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">and denied ever having seen Helena since the day of their marriage.</span> 
    <span id="f000482">The king,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">knowing Bertram’s dislike to his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">feared he had destroyed her:</span> 
    <span id="f000485">and he ordered his guards to seize Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000486">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000487">«I am wrapt in dismal thinking,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">for I fear the life of Helena was foully snatched.» At this moment Diana and her mother entered,</span> 
    <span id="f000489">and presented a petition to the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">wherein they begged his majesty to exert his royal power to compel Bertram to marry Diana,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">he having made her a solemn promise of marriage.</span> 
    <span id="f000492">Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">fearing the king’s anger,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">denied he had made any such promise;</span> 
    <span id="f000495">and then Diana produced the ring (which Helena had put into her hands) to confirm the truth of her words;</span> 
    <span id="f000496">and she said that she had given Bertram the ring he then wore,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">in exchange for that,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">at the time he vowed to marry her.</span> 
    <span id="f000499">On hearing this,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">the king ordered the guards to seize her also;</span> 
    <span id="f000501">and her account of the ring differing from Bertram’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">the king’s suspicions were confirmed:</span> 
    <span id="f000503">and he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">if they did not confess how they came by this ring of Helena’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000505">they should be both put to death.</span> 
    <span id="f000506">Diana requested her mother might be permitted to fetch the jeweller of whom she bought the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">which being granted,</span> 
    <span id="f000508">the widow went out,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">and presently returned leading in Helena herself.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000510">The good countess,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">who in silent grief had beheld her son’s danger,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">and had even dreaded that the suspicion of his having destroyed his wife might possibly be true,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">finding her dear Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">whom she loved with even a maternal affection,</span> 
    <span id="f000515">was still living,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">felt a delight she was hardly able to support;</span> 
    <span id="f000517">and the king,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">scarce believing for joy that it was Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000520">«Is this indeed the wife of Bertram that I see?» Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">feeling herself yet an unacknowledged wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000523">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">my good lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">it is but the shadow of a wife you see,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">the name and not the thing.» Bertram cried out:</span> 
    <span id="f000527">«Both,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">both!</span> 
    <span id="f000529">O pardon!» — «O my lord,» said Helena,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">«when I personated this fair maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000531">I found you wondrous kind;</span> 
    <span id="f000532">and look,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">here is your letter!» reading to him in a joyful tone those words which she had once repeated so sorrowfully:</span> 
    <span id="f000534">When from my finger you can get this ring, — « This is done;</span> 
    <span id="f000535">it was to me you gave the ring.</span> 
    <span id="f000536">Will you be mine,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">now you are doubly won?» Bertram replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000538">«If you can make it plain that you were the lady I talked with that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">I will love you dearly ever,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">ever dearly.» This was no difficult task,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">for the widow and Diana came with Helena to prove this fact;</span> 
    <span id="f000542">and the king was so well pleased with Diana,</span> 
    <span id="f000543">for the friendly assistance she had rendered the dear lady he so truly valued for the service she had done him,</span> 
    <span id="f000544">that he promised her also a noble husband:</span> 
    <span id="f000545">Helena’s history giving him a hint,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">that it was a suitable reward for kings to bestow upon fair ladies when they perform notable services.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000547">Thus Helena at last found that her father’s legacy was indeed sanctified by the luckiest stars in heaven;</span> 
    <span id="f000548">for she was now the beloved wife of her dear Bertram,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">the daughter-in-law of her noble mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">and herself the countess of Rousillon.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track13">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p014.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>