<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track14">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p015.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">The Taming of the Shrew</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Katherine,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">the Shrew,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">was the eldest daughter of Baptista,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">a rich gentleman of Padua.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">She was a lady of such an ungovernable spirit and fiery temper,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">such a loud-tongued scold,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">that she was known in Padua by no other name than Katharine the Shrew.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">It seemed very unlikely,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">indeed impossible,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">that any gentleman would ever be found who would venture to marry this lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and therefore Baptista was much blamed for deferring his consent to many excellent offers that were made to her gentle sister Bianca,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">putting off all Bianca’s suitors with this excuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">that when the eldest sister was fairly off his hands,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">they should have free leave to address young Bianca.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">It happened,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">however,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">that a gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">named Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">came to Padua,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">purposely to look out for a wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">nothing discouraged by these reports of Katharine’s temper.</span> 
    <span id="f000024">and hearing she was rich and handsome,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">resolved upon marrying this famous termagant,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">and taming her into a meek and manageable wife.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">And truly none was so fit to set about this herculean labour as Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">whose spirit was as high as Katharine’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">and he was a witty and most happy-tempered humourist,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">and withal so wise,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">and of such a true judgment,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">that he well knew how to feign a passionate and furious deportment,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">when his spirits were so calm that himself could have laughed merrily at his own angry feigning,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">for his natural temper was careless and easy;</span> 
    <span id="f000035">the boisterous airs he assumed when he became the husband of Katharine being but in sport,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">or more properly speaking,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">affected by his excellent discernment,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">as the only means to overcome,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">in her own way,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">the passionate ways of the furious Katharine.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">A courting then Petruchio went to Katharine the Shrew;</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and first of all he applied to Baptista her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">for leave to woo his gentle daughter Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">as Petruchio called her,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">saying archly,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">that having heard of her bashful modesty and mild behaviour,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">he had come from Verona to solicit her love.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">Her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">though he wished her married,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">was forced to confess Katharine would ill answer this character,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">it being soon apparent of what manner of gentleness she was composed,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">for her music-master rushed into the room to complain that the gentle Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">his pupil,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">had broken his head with her lute,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">for presuming to find fault with her performance;</span> 
    <span id="f000056">which,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">when Petruchio heard,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000059">«It is a brave wench;</span> 
    <span id="f000060">I love her more than ever,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">and long to have some chat with her»;</span> 
    <span id="f000062">and hurrying the old gentleman for a positive answer,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000064">«My business is in haste,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">signior Baptista,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">I cannot come every day to woo.</span> 
    <span id="f000067">You knew my father:</span> 
    <span id="f000068">he is dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">and has left me heir to all his lands and goods.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">Then tell me,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">if I get your daughter’s love,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">what dowry you will give with her.» Baptista thought his manner was somewhat blunt for a lover;</span> 
    <span id="f000073">but being glad to get Katharine married,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">he answered that he would give her twenty thousand crowns for her dowry,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">and half his estate at his death:</span> 
    <span id="f000076">so this odd match was quickly agreed on,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">and Baptista went to apprise his shrewish daughter of her lover’s addresses,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">and sent her in to Petruchio to listen to his suit.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000079">In the meantime Petruchio was settling with himself the mode of courtship he should pursue;</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000081">«I will woo her with some spirit when she comes.</span> 
    <span id="f000082">If she rails at me,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">why then I will tell her she sings as sweetly as a nightingale;</span> 
    <span id="f000084">and if she frowns.</span> 
    <span id="f000085">I will say she looks as clear as roses newly washed with dew.</span> 
    <span id="f000086">If she will not speak a word,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">I will praise the eloquence of her language;</span> 
    <span id="f000088">and if she bids me leave her.</span> 
    <span id="f000089">I will give her thanks as if she bid me stay with her a week.» Now the stately Katharine entered,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and Petruchio first addressed her with «Good morrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">Kate,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">for that is your name,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">I hear.» Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">not liking this plain salutation,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">said disdainfully:</span> 
    <span id="f000096">«They call me Katharine who do speak to me.» «You lie,» replied the lover;</span> 
    <span id="f000097">«for you are called plain Kate,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">and bonny Kate,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">and sometimes Kate the Shrew:</span> 
    <span id="f000100">but,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">Kate,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">you are the prettiest Kate in Christendom,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">and therefore,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">Kate,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">hearing your mildness praised in every town,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">I am come to woo you for my wife.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000107">A strange courtship they made of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000108">She in loud and angry terms showing him how justly she had gained the name of Shrew,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">while he still praised her sweet and courteous words,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">till at length,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">hearing her father coming,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">he said (intending to make as quick a wooing as possible):</span> 
    <span id="f000113">«Sweet Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">let us set this idle chat aside,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">for your father has consented that you shall be my wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">your dowry is agreed on,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">and whether you will or no,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">I will marry you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000119">And now Baptista entering,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">Petruchio told him his daughter had received him kindly,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">and that she had promised to be married the next Sunday.</span> 
    <span id="f000122">This Katharine denied,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">saying she would rather see him hanged on Sunday,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and reproached her father for wishing to wed her to such a mad-cap ruffian as Petruchio.</span> 
    <span id="f000125">Petruchio desired her father not to regard her angry words,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">for they had agreed she should seem reluctant before him,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">but that when they were alone he had found her very fond and loving;</span> 
    <span id="f000128">and he said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000129">«Give me your hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">Kate;</span> 
    <span id="f000131">I will go to Venice to buy you fine apparel against our wedding day.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">Provide the feast,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">father,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">and bid the wedding guests.</span> 
    <span id="f000135">I will be sure to bring rings,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">fine array,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">and rich clothes,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">that my Katharine may be fine;</span> 
    <span id="f000139">and kiss me,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">Kate,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">for we will be married on Sunday.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000142">On the Sunday all the wedding guests were assembled,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">but they waited long before Petruchio came,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">and Katharine wept for vexation to think that Petruchio had only been making a jest of her.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">At last,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">however,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">he appeared;</span> 
    <span id="f000148">but he brought none of the bridal finery he had promised Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">nor was he dressed himself like a bridegroom,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">but in strange disordered attire,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">as if he meant to make a sport of the serious business he came about;</span> 
    <span id="f000152">and his servant and the very horses on which they rode were in like manner in mean and fantastic fashion habited.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">Petruchio could not be persuaded to change his dress;</span> 
    <span id="f000154">he said Katharine was to be married to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">and not to his clothes;</span> 
    <span id="f000156">and finding it was in vain to argue with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">to the church they went,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">he still behaving in the same mad way,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">for when the priest asked Petruchio if Katharine should be his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">he swore so loud that she should,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">that,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">all amazed,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">the priest let fall his book,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">and as he stooped to take it up,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">this mad-brained bridegroom gave him such a cuff,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">that down fell the priest and his book again.</span> 
    <span id="f000167">And all the while they were being married he stamped and swore so,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">that the high-spirited Katharine trembled and shook with fear.</span> 
    <span id="f000169">After the ceremony was over,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">while they were yet in the church,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">he called for wine,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">and drank a loud health to the company,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">and threw a sop which was at the bottom of the glass full in the sexton’s face,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">giving no other reason for this strange act,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">than that the sexton’s beard grew thin and hungerly,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">and seemed to ask the sop as he was drinking.</span> 
    <span id="f000177">Never sure was there such a mad marriage;</span> 
    <span id="f000178">but Petruchio did but put this wildness on,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">the better to succeed in the plot he had formed to tame his shrewish wife.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000180">Baptista had provided a sumptuous marriage feast,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">but when they returned from church,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">taking hold of Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">declared his intention of carrying his wife home instantly:</span> 
    <span id="f000185">and no remonstrance of his father-in-law,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">or angry words of the enraged Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">could make him change his purpose.</span> 
    <span id="f000188">He claimed a husband’s right to dispose of his wife as he pleased,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">and away he hurried Katharine off:</span> 
    <span id="f000190">he seeming so daring and resolute that no one dared attempt to stop him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000191">Petruchio mounted his wife upon a miserable horse,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">lean and lank,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">which he had picked out for the purpose,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">and himself and his servant no better mounted;</span> 
    <span id="f000195">they journeyed on through rough and miry ways,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">and ever when this horse of Katharine’s stumbled,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">he would storm and swear at the poor jaded beast,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">who could scarce crawl under his burthen,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">as if he had been the most passionate man alive.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000200">At length,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">after a weary journey,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">during which Katharine had heard nothing but the wild ravings of Petruchio at the servant and the horses,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">they arrived at his house.</span> 
    <span id="f000204">Petruchio welcomed her kindly to her home,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">but he resolved she should have neither rest nor food that night.</span> 
    <span id="f000206">The tables were spread,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">and supper soon served;</span> 
    <span id="f000208">but Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">pretending to find fault with every dish,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">threw the meat about the floor,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">and ordered the servants to remove it away;</span> 
    <span id="f000212">and all this he did,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">as he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">in love for his Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">that she might not eat meat that was not well dressed.</span> 
    <span id="f000216">And when Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">weary and supperless,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">retired to rest,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">he found the same fault with the bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">throwing the pillows and bedclothes about the room,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">so that she was forced to sit down in a chair,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">where if she chanced to drop asleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">she was presently awakened by the loud voice of her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">storming at the servants for the ill-making of his wife’s bridal-bed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000225">The next day Petruchio pursued the same course,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">still speaking kind words to Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">but when she attempted to eat,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">finding fault with everything that was set before her throwing the breakfast on the floor as he had done the supper;</span> 
    <span id="f000229">and Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">the haughty Katherine,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">was fain to beg the servants would bring her secretly a morsel of food;</span> 
    <span id="f000232">but they being instructed by Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">replied,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">they dared not give her anything unknown to their master.</span> 
    <span id="f000235">«Ah,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">«did he marry me to famish me?</span> 
    <span id="f000237">Beggars that come to my father’s door have food given them.</span> 
    <span id="f000238">But I,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">who never knew what it was to entreat for anything,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">am starved for want of food,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">giddy for want of sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">with oaths kept waking,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">and with brawling fed;</span> 
    <span id="f000244">and that which vexes me more than all,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">he does it under the name of perfect love,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">pretending that if I sleep or eat,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">it were present death to me.» Here the soliloquy was interrupted by the entrance of Petruchio:</span> 
    <span id="f000248">he,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">not meaning she should be quite starved,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">had brought her a small portion of meat,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">and he said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000252">«How fares my sweet Kate?</span> 
    <span id="f000253">Here,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">love,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">you see how diligent I am,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">I have dressed your meat myself.</span> 
    <span id="f000257">I am sure this kindness merits thanks.</span> 
    <span id="f000258">What,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">not a word?</span> 
    <span id="f000260">Nay,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">then you love not the meat,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">and all the pains I have taken is to no purpose.» He then ordered the servant to take the dish away.</span> 
    <span id="f000263">Extreme hunger,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">which had abated the pride of Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">made her say,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">though angered to the heart:</span> 
    <span id="f000267">«I pray you let it stand.» But this was not all Petruchio intended to bring her to,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">and he replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000269">«The poorest service is repaid with thanks,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">and so shall mine before you touch the meat.» On this Katharine brought out a reluctant «I thank you,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">sir.» And now he suffered her to make a slender meal,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000273">«Much good may it do your gentle heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">Kate;</span> 
    <span id="f000275">eat apace!</span> 
    <span id="f000276">And now,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">my honey love,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">we will return to your father’s house,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">and revel it as bravely as the best,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">with silken coats and caps and golden rings,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">with ruffs and scares and fans and double change of finery»;</span> 
    <span id="f000282">and to make her believe he really intended to give her these gay things,</span> 
    <span id="f000283">he called in a tailor and a haberdasher,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">who brought some new clothes he had ordered for her,</span> 
    <span id="f000285">and then giving her plate to the servant to take away,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">before she had half satisfied her hunger,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000288">«What,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">have you dined?» The haberdasher presented a cap,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000291">«Here is the cap your worship bespoke»;</span> 
    <span id="f000292">on which Petruchio began to storm afresh,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">saying the cap was moulded in a porringer,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">and that it was no bigger than a cockle or walnut shell,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">desiring the haberdasher to take it away and make it bigger.</span> 
    <span id="f000296">Katharine said:</span> 
    <span id="f000297">«I will have this;</span> 
    <span id="f000298">all gentlewomen wear such caps as these.» — «When you are gentle,» replied Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">«you shall have one too,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">and not till then.» The meat Katharine had eaten had a little revived her fallen spirits,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000302">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">I trust I may have leave to speak,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">and speak I will:</span> 
    <span id="f000306">I am no child,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">no babe;</span> 
    <span id="f000308">your betters have endured to hear me say my mind;</span> 
    <span id="f000309">and if you cannot,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">you had better stop your ears.» Petruchio would not hear these angry words,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">for he had happily discovered a better way of managing his wife than keeping up a jangling argument with her;</span> 
    <span id="f000312">therefore his answer was:</span> 
    <span id="f000313">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">you say true;</span> 
    <span id="f000315">it is a paltry cap,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">and I love you for not liking it.» — «Love me,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">or love me not,» said Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">«I like the cap,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">and I will have this cap or none.» — «You say you wish to see the gown,» said Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">still affecting to misunderstand her.</span> 
    <span id="f000321">The tailor then came forward and showed her a fine gown he had made for her.</span> 
    <span id="f000322">Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">whose intent was that she should have neither cap nor gown,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">found as much fault with that.</span> 
    <span id="f000325">«O mercy,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">Heaven!» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">«what stuff is here!</span> 
    <span id="f000328">What,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">do you call this a sleeve?</span> 
    <span id="f000330">it is like a demi-cannon,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">carved up and down like an apple tart.» The tailor said:</span> 
    <span id="f000332">«You bid me make it according to the fashion of the times»;</span> 
    <span id="f000333">and Katharine said,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">she never saw a better fashioned gown.</span> 
    <span id="f000335">This was enough for Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">and privately desiring these people might be paid for their goods,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">and excuses made to them for the seemingly strange treatment he bestowed upon them,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">he with fierce words and furious gestures drove the tailor and the haberdasher out of the room;</span> 
    <span id="f000339">and then,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">turning to Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000342">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">come,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">my Kate,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">we will go to your father’s even in these mean garments we now wear.» And then he ordered his horses,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">affirming they should reach Baptista’s house by dinner-time,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">for that it was but seven o’clock.</span> 
    <span id="f000348">Now it was not early morning but the very middle of the day,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">when he spoke this,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">therefore Katharine ventured to say,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">though modestly,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">being almost overcome by the vehemence of his manner:</span> 
    <span id="f000353">«I dare assure you,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000355">it is two o’clock.</span> 
    <span id="f000356">and will be supper-time before we get there.» But Petruchio meant that she should be so completely subdued,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">that she should assent to everything he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">before he carried her to her father;</span> 
    <span id="f000359">and therefore,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">as if he were lord even of the sun,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">and could command the hours,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">he said it should be what time he pleased to have it,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">before he set forward;</span> 
    <span id="f000364">«For,» he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">«whatever I say or do,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">you still are crossing it.</span> 
    <span id="f000367">I will not go to-day,</span> 
    <span id="f000368">and when I go,</span> 
    <span id="f000369">it shall be what o’clock I say it is.» Another day Katherine was forced to practice her newly found obedience,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">and not till he had brought her proud spirit to such a perfect subjection,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">that she dared not remember there was such a word as contradiction,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">would Petruchio allow her to go to her father’s house;</span> 
    <span id="f000373">and even while they were upon their journey thither,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">she was in danger of being turned back again,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">only because she happened to hint it was the sun,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">when he affirmed the moon shone brightly at noonday.</span> 
    <span id="f000377">«Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">by my mother’s son,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">«and that is myself,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">it shall be the moon,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">or stars,</span> 
    <span id="f000382">or what I list,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">before I journey to your father’s house.» He then made as if he were going back again;</span> 
    <span id="f000384">but Katherine,</span> 
    <span id="f000385">no longer Katherine the Shrew,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">but the obedient wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000388">«Let us go forward,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">I pray,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">now we have come so far,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">and it shall be the sun,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">or moon,</span> 
    <span id="f000393">or what you please,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">and if you please to call it a rush candle henceforth,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">I vowed it shall be so for me.» This he was resolved to prove,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">therefore he said again:</span> 
    <span id="f000397">«I say,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">it is the moon.» — «I know it is the moon,» replied Katherine.</span> 
    <span id="f000399">«You lie,</span> 
    <span id="f000400">it is the blessed sun,» said Petruchio.</span> 
    <span id="f000401">«Then it is the blessed sun,» replied Katherine;</span> 
    <span id="f000402">«but sun it is not,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">when you say it is not.</span> 
    <span id="f000404">What you will have it named,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">even so it is,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">and so it ever shall be for Katherine.» Now then he suffered her to proceed on her journey;</span> 
    <span id="f000407">but further to try if this yielding humour would last,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">he addressed an old gentleman they met on the road as if he had been a young woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">saying to him:</span> 
    <span id="f000410">«Good morrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">gentle mistress»;</span> 
    <span id="f000412">and asked Katherine if she had ever beheld a fairer gentlewoman,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">praising the red and white of the old man’s cheeks,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">and comparing his eyes to two bright stars;</span> 
    <span id="f000415">and again he addressed him,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000417">«Fair lovely maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000418">once more good day to you!» and said to his wife:</span> 
    <span id="f000419">«Sweet Kate,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">embrace her for her beauty’s sake.» The now completely vanquished Katharine quickly adopted her husband’s opinion,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">and made her speech in like sort to the old gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">saying to him:</span> 
    <span id="f000423">«Young budding virgin,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">you are fair,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">and fresh,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">and sweet:</span> 
    <span id="f000427">whither are you going,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">and where is your dwelling?</span> 
    <span id="f000429">Happy are the parents of so fair a child.» «Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">how now,</span> 
    <span id="f000431">Kate,» said Petruchio;</span> 
    <span id="f000432">«I hope you are not mad.</span> 
    <span id="f000433">This is a man,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">old and wrinkled,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">faded and withered,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">and not a maiden,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">as you say he is.» On this Katharine said:</span> 
    <span id="f000438">«Pardon me,</span> 
    <span id="f000439">old gentleman;</span> 
    <span id="f000440">the sun has so dazzled my eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000441">that everything I look on seemeth green.</span> 
    <span id="f000442">Now I perceive you are a reverend father:</span> 
    <span id="f000443">I hope you will pardon me for my sad mistake.» «Do,</span> 
    <span id="f000444">good old grand-sire,» said Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">«and tell us which way you are travelling.</span> 
    <span id="f000446">We shall be glad of your good company,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">if you are going our way.» The old gentleman replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000448">«Fair sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">and you my merry mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">your strange encounter has much amazed me.</span> 
    <span id="f000451">My name is Vincentio,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">and I am going to visit a son of mine who lives at Padua.» Then Petruchio knew the old gentleman to be the father of Lucentio,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">a young gentleman who was to be married to Baptista’s younger daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">Bianca,</span> 
    <span id="f000455">and he made Vincentio very happy,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">by telling him the rich marriage his son was about to make:</span> 
    <span id="f000457">and they all journeyed on pleasantly together till they came to Baptista’s house,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">where there was a large company assembled to celebrate the wedding of Bianca and Lucentio,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">Baptista having willingly consented to the marriage of Bianca when he had got Katharine off his hands.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000460">When they entered,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">Baptista welcomed them to the wedding feast,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">and there was present also another newly married pair.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000463">Lucentio,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">Bianca’s husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">and Hortensio,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">the other new married man,</span> 
    <span id="f000467">could not forbear sly jests,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">which seemed to hint at the shrewish disposition of Petruchio’s wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">and these fond bridegrooms seemed high pleased with the mild tempers of the ladies they had chosen,</span> 
    <span id="f000470">laughing at Petruchio for his less fortunate choice.</span> 
    <span id="f000471">Petruchio took little notice of their jokes till the ladies were retired after dinner,</span> 
    <span id="f000472">and then he perceived Baptista himself joined in the laugh against him:</span> 
    <span id="f000473">for when Petruchio affirmed that his wife would prove more obedient than theirs,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">the father of Katharine said:</span> 
    <span id="f000475">«Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">in good sadness,</span> 
    <span id="f000477">son Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">I fear you have got the veriest shrew of all.» «Well,» said Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">«I say no,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">and therefore for assurance that I speak the truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">let us each one send for his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">and he whose wife is most obedient to come at first when she is sent for,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">shall win a wager which we will propose.» To this the other two husbands willingly consented,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">for they were quite confident that their gentle wives would prove more obedient than the headstrong Katharine;</span> 
    <span id="f000485">and they proposed a wager of twenty crowns,</span> 
    <span id="f000486">but Petruchio merrily said,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">he would lay as much as that upon his hawk or hound,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">but twenty times as much upon his wife.</span> 
    <span id="f000489">Lucentio and Hortensio raised the wager to a hundred crowns,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">and Lucentio first sent his servant to desire Bianca would come to him.</span> 
    <span id="f000491">But the servant returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000492">and said:</span> 
    <span id="f000493">«Sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">my mistress sends you word she is busy and cannot come.» — «How,» said Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">«does she say she is busy and cannot come?</span> 
    <span id="f000496">Is that an answer for a wife?» Then they laughed at him,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">and said,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">it would be well if Katharine did not send him a worse answer.</span> 
    <span id="f000499">And now it was Hortensio’s turn to send for his wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000500">and he said to his servant:</span> 
    <span id="f000501">«Go,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">and entreat my wife to come to me.» «Oh ho!</span> 
    <span id="f000503">entreat her!» said Petruchio.</span> 
    <span id="f000504">«Nay,</span> 
    <span id="f000505">then,</span> 
    <span id="f000506">she needs must come.» — «I am afraid,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">sir,» said Hortensio,</span> 
    <span id="f000508">«your wife will not be entreated.» But presently this civil husband looked a little blank,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">when the servant returned without his mistress;</span> 
    <span id="f000510">and he said to him:</span> 
    <span id="f000511">«How now!</span> 
    <span id="f000512">Where is my wife?» — «Sir,» said the servant,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">«my mistress says,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">you have some goodly jest in hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000515">and therefore she will not come.</span> 
    <span id="f000516">She bids you come to her.» — «Worse and worse!» said Petruchio;</span> 
    <span id="f000517">and then he sent his servant,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000519">«Sirrah,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">go to your mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">and tell her I command her to come to me.» The company had scarcely time to think she would not obey this summons,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">when Baptista,</span> 
    <span id="f000523">all in amaze,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">exclaimed:</span> 
    <span id="f000525">«Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">by my holidame,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">here comes Katharine!» and she entered,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">saying meekly to Petruchio:</span> 
    <span id="f000529">«What is your will,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000531">that you send for me?» — «Where is your sister and Hortensio’s wife?» said he.</span> 
    <span id="f000532">Katharine replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000533">«They sit conferring by the parlour fire.» — «Go,</span> 
    <span id="f000534">fetch them hither!» said Petruchio.</span> 
    <span id="f000535">Away went Katharine without reply to perform her husband’s command.</span> 
    <span id="f000536">«Here is a wonder,» said Lucentio,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">«if you talk of a wonder.» — «And so it is,» said Hortensio;</span> 
    <span id="f000538">«I marvel what it bodes.» — «Marry,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">peace it bodes,» said Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">«and love,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">and quiet life,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">and right supremacy;</span> 
    <span id="f000543">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000544">to be short,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">everything that is sweet and happy.» Katharine’s father,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">overjoyed to see this reformation in his daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000547">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000548">«Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">fair befall thee,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">son Petruchio!</span> 
    <span id="f000551">you have won the wager,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">and I will add another twenty thousand crowns to her dowry,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">as if she were another daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">for she is changed as if she had never been,» — «Nay,» said Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">«I will win the wager better yet,</span> 
    <span id="f000556">and show more signs of her new-built virtue and obedience.» Katharine now entering with the two ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">he continued:</span> 
    <span id="f000558">«See where she comes,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">and brings your froward wives as prisoners to her womanly persuasion.</span> 
    <span id="f000560">Katharine,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">that cap of yours does not become you;</span> 
    <span id="f000562">off with that bauble,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">and throw it under foot.» Katharine instantly took off her cap,</span> 
    <span id="f000564">and threw it down.</span> 
    <span id="f000565">«Lord!» said Hortensio’s wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">«may I never have a cause to sigh till I am brought to such a silly pass!» And Bianca,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">she too said:</span> 
    <span id="f000568">«Fie,</span> 
    <span id="f000569">what foolish duty call you this?» On this Bianca’s husband said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000570">«I wish your duty were as foolish too!</span> 
    <span id="f000571">The wisdom of your duty,</span> 
    <span id="f000572">fair Bianca,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">has cost me a hundred crowns since dinner-time.» — «The more fool you,» said Bianca,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">«for laying on my duty.» — «Katharine,» said Petruchio,</span> 
    <span id="f000575">«I charge you tell these headstrong women what duty they owe their lords and husbands.» And to the wonder of all present,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">the reformed shrewish lady spoke as eloquently in praise of the wifelike duty of obedience,</span> 
    <span id="f000577">as she had practiced it implicitly in a ready submission to Petruchio’s will.</span> 
    <span id="f000578">And Katharine once more became famous in Padua,</span> 
    <span id="f000579">not as heretofore,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">as Katharine the Shrew,</span> 
    <span id="f000581">but as Katharine the most obedient and duteous wife in Padua.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track14">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p015.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>