<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p014.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track15">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p016.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">The Comedy of Errors</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">The states of Syracuse and Ephesus being at variance,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">there was a cruel law made at Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">ordaining that if any merchant of Syracuse was seen in the city of Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">he was to be put to death,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">unless he could pay a thousand marks for the ransom of his life.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000007">Ægeon,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">an old merchant of Syracuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">was discovered in the streets of Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and brought before the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">either to pay this heavy fine,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">or to receive sentence of death.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">Ægeon had no money to pay the fine,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">and the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">before he pronounced the sentence of death upon him,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">desired him to relate the history of his life,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">and to tell for what cause he had ventured to come to the city of Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">which it was death for any Syracusan merchant to enter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000019">Ægeon said,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">that he did not fear to die,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">for sorrow had made him weary of his life,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">but that a heavier task could not have been imposed upon him than to relate the events of his unfortunate life.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">He then began his own history,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">in the following words:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000025">"I was born at Syracuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">and brought up to the profession of a merchant.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">I married a lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">with whom I lived very happily,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">but being obliged to go to Epidamnum,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">I was detained there by my business six months,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">and then,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">finding I should be obliged to stay some time longer,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">I sent for my wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">as soon as she arrived,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">was brought to bed of two sons,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">and what was very strange,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">they were both so exactly alike,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">that it was impossible to distinguish the one from the other.</span> 
    <span id="f000040">At the same time that my wife was brought to bed of these twin boys,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">a poor woman in the inn where my wife lodged was brought to bed of two sons,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and these twins were as much like each other as my two sons were.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">The parents of these children being exceeding poor,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">I bought the two boys,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">and brought them up to attend upon my sons.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000046">"My sons were very fine children,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">and my wife was not a little proud of two such boys:</span> 
    <span id="f000048">and she daily wishing to return home,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">I unwillingly agreed,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">and in an evil hour we got on shipboard;</span> 
    <span id="f000051">for we had not sailed above a league from Epidamnum before a dreadful storm arose,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">which continued with such violence,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">that the sailors seeing no chance of saving the ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">crowded into the boat to save their own lives,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">leaving us alone in the ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">which we every moment expected would be destroyed by the fury of the storm.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">"The incessant weeping of my wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">and the piteous complaints of the pretty babes,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">not knowing what to fear,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">wept for fashion,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">because they saw their mother weep,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">filled me with terror for them,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">though I did not for myself fear death;</span> 
    <span id="f000065">and all my thoughts were bent to contrive means for their safety.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">I tied my youngest son to the end of a small spare mast,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">such as seafaring men provide against storms;</span> 
    <span id="f000068">at the other end I bound the youngest of the twin slaves,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">and at the same time I directed my wife how to fasten the other children in like manner to another mast.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">She thus having the care of the two eldest children,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">and I of the two younger,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">we bound ourselves separately to these masts with the children;</span> 
    <span id="f000073">and but for this contrivance we had all been lost,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">for the ship split on a mighty rock,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">and was dashed in pieces;</span> 
    <span id="f000076">and we,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">clinging to these slender masts,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">were supported above the water,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">where I,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">having the care of two children,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">was unable to assist my wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">who with the other children was soon separated from me;</span> 
    <span id="f000083">but while they were yet in my sight,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">they were taken up by a boat of fishermen,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">from Corinth (as I supposed),</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and seeing them in safety,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">I had no care but to struggle with the wild sea-waves,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">to preserve my dear son and the youngest slave.</span> 
    <span id="f000089">At length we,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">in our turn,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">were taken up by a ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">and the sailors,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">knowing me,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">gave us kind welcome and assistance,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">and landed us in safety at Syracuse;</span> 
    <span id="f000096">but from that sad hour I have never known what became of my wife and eldest child.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">«My youngest son,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">and now my only care,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">when he was eighteen years of age,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">began to be inquisitive after his mother and his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">and often importuned me that he might take his attendant,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">the young slave,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">who had also lost his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">and go in search of them:</span> 
    <span id="f000105">at length I unwillingly gave consent,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">for though I anxiously desired to hear tidings of my wife and eldest son,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">yet in sending my younger one to find them,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">I hazarded the loss of them also.</span> 
    <span id="f000109">It is now seven years since my son left me;</span> 
    <span id="f000110">five years have I passed in travelling through the world in search of him:</span> 
    <span id="f000111">I have been in farthest Greece,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">and through the bounds of Asia,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and coasting homewards,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">I landed here in Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">being unwilling to leave any place unsought that harbours men;</span> 
    <span id="f000116">but this day must end the story of my life,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">and happy should I think myself in my death,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">if I were assured my wife and sons were living.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000119">Here the hapless Ægeon ended the account of his misfortunes;</span> 
    <span id="f000120">and the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">pitying this unfortunate father,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">who had brought upon himself this great peril by his love for his lost son,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">said,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">if it were not against the laws,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">which his oath and dignity did not permit him to alter,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">he would freely pardon him;</span> 
    <span id="f000127">yet,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">instead of dooming him to instant death,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">as the strict letter of the law required,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">he would give him that day to try if he could beg or borrow the money to pay the fine.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000131">This day of grace did seem no great favour to Ægeon,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">for not knowing any man in Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">there seemed to him but little chance that any stranger would lend or give him a thousand marks to pay the fine;</span> 
    <span id="f000134">and helpless and hopeless of any relief,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">he retired from the presence of the duke in the custody of a jailor.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000136">Ægeon supposed he knew no person in Ephesus;</span> 
    <span id="f000137">but at the very time he was in danger of losing his life through the careful search he was making after his youngest son,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">that son and his eldest son also were both in the city of Ephesus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">Ægeon’s sons,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">besides being exactly alike in face and person,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">were both named alike,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">being both called Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">and the two twin slaves were also both named Dromio.</span> 
    <span id="f000144">Ægeon’s youngest son,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">Antipholus of Syracuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">he whom the old man had come to Ephesus to seek,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">happened to arrive at Ephesus with his slave Dromio that very same day that Ægeon did;</span> 
    <span id="f000148">and he being also a merchant of Syracuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">he would have been in the same danger that his father was,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">but by good fortune he met a friend who told him the peril an old merchant of Syracuse was in,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">and advised him to pass for a merchant of Epidamnum;</span> 
    <span id="f000152">this Antipholus agreed to do,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">and he was sorry to hear one of his own countrymen was in this danger,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">but he little thought this old merchant was his own father.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000155">The eldest son of Ægeon (who must be called Antipholus of Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">to distinguish him from his brother Antipholus of Syracuse) had lived at Ephesus twenty years,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">being a rich man,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">was well able to have paid the money for the ransom of his father’s life;</span> 
    <span id="f000160">but Antipholus knew nothing of his father,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">being so young when he was taken out of the sea with his mother by the fishermen that he only remembered he had been so preserved,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">but he had no recollection of either his father or his mother;</span> 
    <span id="f000163">the fishermen who took up this Antipholus and his mother and the young slave Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">having carried the two children away from her (to the great grief of that unhappy lady),</span> 
    <span id="f000165">intending to sell them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000166">Antipholus and Dromio were sold by them to duke Menaphon,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">a famous warrior,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">who was uncle to the duke of Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">and he carried the boys to Ephesus when he went to visit the duke his nephew.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000170">The duke of Ephesus taking a liking to young Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">when he grew up,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">made him an officer in his army,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">in which he distinguished himself by his great bravery in the wars,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">where he saved the life of his patron the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">who rewarded his merit by marrying him to Adriana,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">a rich lady of Ephesus;</span> 
    <span id="f000177">with whom he was living (his slave Dromio still attending him) at the time his father came there.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">Antipholus of Syracuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">when he parted with his friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">who advised him to say he came from Epidamnum,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">gave his slave Dromio some money to carry to the inn where he intended to dine,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">and in the mean time he said he would walk about and view the city,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">and observe the manners of the people.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000184">Dromio was a pleasant fellow,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">and when Antipholus was dull and melancholy he used to divert himself with the odd humours and merry jests of his slave,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">so that the freedoms of speech he allowed in Dromio were greater than is usual between masters and their servants.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000187">When Antipholus of Syracuse had sent Dromio away,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">he stood awhile thinking over his solitary wanderings in search of his mother and his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">of whom in no place where he landed could he hear the least tidings;</span> 
    <span id="f000190">and he said sorrowfully to himself:</span> 
    <span id="f000191">«I am like a drop of water in the ocean,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">which seeking to find its fellow drop,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">loses itself in the wide sea.</span> 
    <span id="f000194">So I unhappily,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">to find a mother and a brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">do lose myself.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000197">While he was thus meditating on his weary travels,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">which had hitherto been so useless,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">Dromio (as he thought) returned.</span> 
    <span id="f000200">Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">wondering that he came back so soon,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">asked him where he had left the money.</span> 
    <span id="f000203">Now it was not his own Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">but the twin-brother that lived with Antipholus of Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">that he spoke to.</span> 
    <span id="f000206">The two Dromios and the two Antipholuses were still as much alike as Ægeon had said they were in their infancy;</span> 
    <span id="f000207">therefore no wonder Antipholus thought it was his own slave returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">and asked him why he came back so soon.</span> 
    <span id="f000209">Dromio replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000210">«My mistress sent me to bid you come to dinner.</span> 
    <span id="f000211">The capon burns,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">and the pig falls from the spit,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">and the meat will be all cold if you do not come home.» «These jests are out of season,» said Antipholus:</span> 
    <span id="f000214">«where did you leave the money?» Dromio still answering,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">that his mistress had sent him to fetch Antipholus to dinner:</span> 
    <span id="f000216">«What mistress?» said Antipholus.</span> 
    <span id="f000217">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">your worship’s wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">sir,» replied Dromio.</span> 
    <span id="f000220">Antipholus having no wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">he was very angry with Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">and said:</span> 
    <span id="f000223">«Because I familiarly sometimes chat with you,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">you presume to jest with me in this free manner.</span> 
    <span id="f000225">I am not in a sportive humour now:</span> 
    <span id="f000226">where is the money?</span> 
    <span id="f000227">we being strangers here,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">how dare you trust so great a charge from your own custody?» Dromio hearing his master,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">as he thought him,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">talk of their being strangers,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">supposing Antipholus was jesting,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">replied merrily:</span> 
    <span id="f000233">«I pray you,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">jest as you sit at dinner.</span> 
    <span id="f000236">I had no charge but to fetch you home,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">to dine with my mistress and her sister.» Now Antipholus lost all patience,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">and beat Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">who ran home,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">and told his mistress that his master had refused to come to dinner,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">and said that he had no wife.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000242">Adriana,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">the wife of Antipholus of Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">was very angry when she heard that her husband said he had no wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000245">for she was of a jealous temper,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">and she said her husband meant that he loved another lady better than herself;</span> 
    <span id="f000247">and she began to fret,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">and say unkind words of jealousy and reproach of her husband;</span> 
    <span id="f000249">and her sister Luciana,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">who lived with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">tried in vain to persuade her out of her groundless suspicions.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000252">Antipholus of Syracuse went to the inn,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">and found Dromio with the money in safety there,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">and seeing his own Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">he was going again to chide him for his free jests,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">when Adriana came up to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">and not doubting but it was her husband she saw,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">she began to reproach him for looking strange upon her (as well he might,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">never having seen this angry lady before);</span> 
    <span id="f000260">and then she told him how well he loved her before they were married,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">and that now he loved some other lady instead of her.</span> 
    <span id="f000262">«How comes it now,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">my husband,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">«O how comes it that I have lost your love?» — «Plead you to me,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">fair dame?» said the astonished Antipholus.</span> 
    <span id="f000266">It was in vain he told her he was not her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000267">and that he had been in Ephesus but two hours;</span> 
    <span id="f000268">she insisted on his going home with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">and Antipholus as last,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">being unable to get away,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">went with her to his brother’s house,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">and dined with Adriana and her sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">the one calling him husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">and the other brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">he,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">all amazed,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">thinking he must have been married to her in his sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">or that he was sleeping now.</span> 
    <span id="f000279">And Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">who followed them,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">was no less surprised,</span> 
    <span id="f000282">for the cook-maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000283">who was his brother’s wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">also claimed him for her husband.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000285">While Antipholus of Syracuse was dining with his brother’s wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">his brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">the real husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">returned home to dinner with his slave Dromio;</span> 
    <span id="f000289">but the servants would not open the door,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">because their mistress had ordered them not to admit any company;</span> 
    <span id="f000291">and when they repeatedly knocked,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">and said they were Antipholus and Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">the maids laughed at them,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">and said that Antipholus was at dinner with their mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">and Dromio was in the kitchen;</span> 
    <span id="f000296">and though they almost knocked the door down,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">they could not gain admittance,</span> 
    <span id="f000298">and at last Antipholus went away very angry,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">and strangely surprised at hearing a gentleman was dining with his wife.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000300">When Antipholus of Syracuse had finished his dinner,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">he was so perplexed at the lady’s still persisting in calling him husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">and at hearing that Dromio had also been claimed by the cook-maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">that he left the house,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">as soon as he could find any presence to get away;</span> 
    <span id="f000305">for though he was very much pleased with Luciana,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">the sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">yet the jealous-tempered Adriana he disliked very much,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">nor was Dromio at all better satisfied with his fair wife in the kitchen;</span> 
    <span id="f000309">therefore both master and man were glad to get away from their new wives as fast as they could.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000310">The moment Antipholus of Syracuse had left the house,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">he was met by a goldsmith,</span> 
    <span id="f000312">who mistaking him,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">as Adriana had done,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">for Antipholus of Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">gave him a gold chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">calling him by his name;</span> 
    <span id="f000317">and when Antipholus would have refused the chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">saying it did not belong to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">the goldsmith replied he made it by his own orders;</span> 
    <span id="f000320">and went away,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">leaving the chain in the hands of Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">who ordered his man Dromio to get his things on board a ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">not choosing to stay in a place any longer,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">where he met with such strange adventures that he surely thought himself bewitched.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000325">The goldsmith who had given the chain to the wrong Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">was arrested immediately after for a sum of money he owed;</span> 
    <span id="f000327">and Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000328">the married brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">to whom the goldsmith thought he had given the chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">happened to come to the place where the officer was arresting the goldsmith,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">when he saw Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000333">asked him to pay for the gold chain he had just delivered to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">the price amounting to nearly the same sum as that for which he had been arrested.</span> 
    <span id="f000335">Antipholus denying the having received the chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">and the goldsmith persisting to declare that he had but a few minutes before given it to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">they disputed this matter a long time,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">both thinking they were right:</span> 
    <span id="f000339">for Antipholus knew the goldsmith never gave him the chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">and so like were the two brothers,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">the goldsmith was as certain he had delivered the chain into his hands,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">till at last the officer took the goldsmith away to prison for the debt he owed,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">and at the same time the goldsmith made the officer arrest Antipholus for the price of the chain;</span> 
    <span id="f000344">so that at the conclusion of their dispute,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">Antipholus and the merchant were both taken away to prison together.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000346">As Antipholus was going to prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">he met Dromio of Syracuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">his brother’s slave,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">and mistaking him for his own,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">he ordered him to go to Adriana his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">and tell her to send the money for which he was arrested.</span> 
    <span id="f000352">Dromio wondering that his master should send him back to the strange house where he dined,</span> 
    <span id="f000353">and from which he had just before been in such haste to depart,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">did not dare to reply,</span> 
    <span id="f000355">though he came to tell his master the ship was ready to sail:</span> 
    <span id="f000356">for he saw Antipholus was in no humour to be jested with.</span> 
    <span id="f000357">Therefore he went away,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">grumbling within himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">that he must return to Adriana’s house,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">«Where,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">«Dowsabel claims me for a husband:</span> 
    <span id="f000362">but I must go,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">for servants must obey their masters’ commands.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000364">Adriana gave him the money,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">and as Dromio was returning,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">he met Antipholus of Syracuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">who was still in amaze at the surprising adventures he met with;</span> 
    <span id="f000368">for his brother being well known in Ephesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000369">there was hardly a man he met in the streets but saluted him as an old acquaintance:</span> 
    <span id="f000370">some offered him money which they said was owing to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">some invited him to come and see them,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">and some gave thanks for kindnesses they said he had done them,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">all mistaking him for his brother.</span> 
    <span id="f000374">A tailor showed him some silks he had bought for him,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">and insisted upon taking measure of him for some clothes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000376">Antipholus began to think he was among a nation of sorcerers and witches,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">and Dromio did not at all relieve his master from his bewildered thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">by asking him how he got free from the officer who was carrying him to prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">and giving him the purse of gold which Adriana had sent to pay the debt with.</span> 
    <span id="f000380">This talk of Dromio’s of the arrest and of a prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">and of the money he had brought from Adriana,</span> 
    <span id="f000382">perfectly confounded Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000384">«This fellow Dromio is certainly distracted,</span> 
    <span id="f000385">and we wander here in illusions»;</span> 
    <span id="f000386">and quite terrified at his own confused thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">he cried out:</span> 
    <span id="f000388">«Some blessed power deliver us from this strange place!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000389">And now another stranger came up to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">and she was a lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">and she too called him Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">and told him he had dined with her that day,</span> 
    <span id="f000393">and asked him for a gold chain which she said he had promised to give her.</span> 
    <span id="f000394">Antipholus now lost all patience,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">and calling her a sorceress,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">he denied that he had ever promised her a chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">or dined with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">or had ever seen her face before that moment.</span> 
    <span id="f000399">The lady persisted in affirming he had dined with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000400">and had promised her a chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">which Antipholus still denying,</span> 
    <span id="f000402">she further said,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">that she had given him a valuable ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">and if he would not give her the gold chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">she insisted upon having her own ring again.</span> 
    <span id="f000406">On this Antipholus became quite frantic,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">and again calling her sorceress and witch,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">and denying all knowledge of her or her ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">ran away from her,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">leaving her astonished at his words and his wild looks,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">for nothing to her appeared more certain than that he had dined with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">and that she had given him a ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">in consequence of his promising to make her a present of a gold chain.</span> 
    <span id="f000414">But this lady had fallen into the same mistake the others had done,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">for she had taken him for his brother:</span> 
    <span id="f000416">the married Antipholus had done all the things she taxed this Antipholus with.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000417">When the married Antipholus was denied entrance into his own house (those within supposing him to be already there),</span> 
    <span id="f000418">he had gone away very angry,</span> 
    <span id="f000419">believing it to be one of his wife’s jealous freaks,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">to which she was very subject,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">and remembering that she had often falsely accused him of visiting other ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">he,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">to be revenged on her for shutting him out of his own house,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">determined to go and dine with this lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">and she receiving him with great civility,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">and his wife having so highly offended him,</span> 
    <span id="f000427">Antipholus promised to give her a gold chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">which he had intended as a present for his wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000429">it was the same chain which the goldsmith by mistake had given to his brother.</span> 
    <span id="f000430">The lady liked so well the thoughts of having a fine gold chain,</span> 
    <span id="f000431">that she gave the married Antipholus a ring;</span> 
    <span id="f000432">which when,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">as she supposed (taking his brother for him),</span> 
    <span id="f000434">he denied,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">and said he did not know her,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">and left her in such a wild passion,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">she began to think he was certainly out of his senses;</span> 
    <span id="f000438">and presently she resolved to go and tell Adriana that her husband was mad.</span> 
    <span id="f000439">And while she was telling it to Adriana,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">he came,</span> 
    <span id="f000441">attended by the jailor (who allowed him to come home to get the money to pay the debt),</span> 
    <span id="f000442">for the purse of money,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">which Adriana had sent by Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000444">and he had delivered to the other Antipholus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000445">Adriana believed the story the lady told her of her husband’s madness must be true,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">when he reproached her for shutting him out of his own house;</span> 
    <span id="f000447">and remembering how he had protested all dinner-time that he was not her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000448">and had never been in Ephesus till that day,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">she had no doubt that he was mad;</span> 
    <span id="f000450">she therefore paid the jailor the money,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">and having discharged him,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">she ordered her servants to bind her husband with ropes,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">and had him conveyed into a dark room,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">and sent for a doctor to come and cure him of his madness:</span> 
    <span id="f000455">Antipholus all the while hotly exclaiming against this false accusation,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">which the exact likeness he bore to his brother had brought upon him.</span> 
    <span id="f000457">But his rage only the more confirmed them in the belief that he was mad;</span> 
    <span id="f000458">and Dromio persisting in the same story,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">they bound him also,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">and took him away along with his master.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000461">Soon after Adriana had put her husband into confinement,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">a servant came to tell her that Antipholus and Dromio must have broken loose from their keepers,</span> 
    <span id="f000463">for that they were both walking at liberty in the next street.</span> 
    <span id="f000464">On hearing this,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">Adriana ran out to fetch him home,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">taking some people with her to secure her husband again;</span> 
    <span id="f000467">and her sister went along with her.</span> 
    <span id="f000468">When they came to the gates of a convent in their neighbourhood,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">there they saw Antipholus and Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000470">as they thought being again deceived by the likeness of the twin-brothers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000471">Antipholus of Syracuse was still beset with the perplexities this likeness had brought upon him.</span> 
    <span id="f000472">The chain which the goldsmith had given him was about his neck,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">and the goldsmith was reproaching him for denying that he had it,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">and refusing to pay for it,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">and Antipholus was protesting that the goldsmith freely gave him the chain in the morning,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">and that from that hour he had never seen the goldsmith again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000477">And now Adriana came up to him and claimed him as her lunatic husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">who had escaped from his keepers;</span> 
    <span id="f000479">and the men she brought with her were going to lay violent hands on Antipholus and Dromio;</span> 
    <span id="f000480">but they ran into the convent,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">and Antipholus begged the abbess to give him shelter in her house.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000482">And now came out the lady abbess herself to inquire into the cause of this disturbance.</span> 
    <span id="f000483">She was a grave and venerable lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">and wise to judge of what she saw,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">and she would not too hastily give up the man who had sought protection in her house;</span> 
    <span id="f000486">so she strictly questioned the wife about the story she told of her husband’s madness,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000488">«What is the cause of this sudden distemper of your husband’s?</span> 
    <span id="f000489">Has he lost his wealth at sea?</span> 
    <span id="f000490">Or is it the death of some dear friend that has disturbed his mind?» Adriana replied,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">that no such things as these had been the cause.</span> 
    <span id="f000492">«Perhaps,» said the abbess,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">«he has fixed his affections on some other lady than you his wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000494">and that has driven him to this state.» Adriana said she had long thought the love of some other lady was the cause of his frequent absences from home.</span> 
    <span id="f000495">Now it was not his love for another,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">but the teasing jealousy of his wife’s temper,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">that often obliged Antipholus to leave his home;</span> 
    <span id="f000498">and (the abbess suspecting this from the vehemence of Adriana’s manner) to learn the truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000500">«You should have reprehended him for this.» — «Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">so I did,» replied Adriana.</span> 
    <span id="f000502">«Ay,» said the abbess,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">«but perhaps not enough.» Adriana,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">willing to convince the abbess that she had said enough to Antipholus on this subject,</span> 
    <span id="f000505">replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000506">«It was the constant subject of our conversation:</span> 
    <span id="f000507">in bed I would not let him sleep for speaking of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000508">At table I would not let him eat for speaking of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000509">When I was alone with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">I talked of nothing else;</span> 
    <span id="f000511">and in company I gave him frequent hints of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000512">Still all my talk was how vile and bad it was in him to love any lady better than me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000513">The lady abbess,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">having drawn this full confession from the jealous Adriana,</span> 
    <span id="f000515">now said:</span> 
    <span id="f000516">«And therefore comes it that your husband is mad.</span> 
    <span id="f000517">The venomous clamour of a jealous woman is a more deadly poison than a mad dog’s tooth.</span> 
    <span id="f000518">It seems his sleep was hindered by your railing;</span> 
    <span id="f000519">no wonder that his head is light:</span> 
    <span id="f000520">and his meat was sauced with your upbraidings;</span> 
    <span id="f000521">unquiet meals make ill digestions,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">and that has thrown him into this fever.</span> 
    <span id="f000523">You say his sports were disturbed by your brawls;</span> 
    <span id="f000524">being debarred from the enjoyment of society and recreation,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">what could ensue but dull melancholy and comfortless despair?</span> 
    <span id="f000526">The consequence is then,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">that your jealous fits have made your husband mad.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000528">Luciana would have excused her sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">she always reprehended her husband mildly;</span> 
    <span id="f000531">and she said to her sister:</span> 
    <span id="f000532">«Why do you hear these rebukes without answering them?» But the abbess had made her so plainly perceive her fault,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">that she could only answer:</span> 
    <span id="f000534">«She has betrayed me to my own reproof.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000535">Adriana,</span> 
    <span id="f000536">though ashamed of her own conduct,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">still insisted on having her husband delivered up to her;</span> 
    <span id="f000538">but the abbess would suffer no person to enter her house,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">nor would she deliver up this unhappy man to the care of the jealous wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">determining herself to use gentle means for his recovery,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">and she retired into her house again,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">and ordered her gates to be shut against them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000543">During the course of this eventful day,</span> 
    <span id="f000544">in which so many errors had happened from the likeness the twin brothers bore to each other,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">old Ægeon’s day of grace was passing away,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">it being now near sunset;</span> 
    <span id="f000547">and at sunset he was doomed to die,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">if he could not pay the money.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000549">The place of his execution was near this convent,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">and here he arrived just as the abbess retired into the convent;</span> 
    <span id="f000551">the duke attending in person,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">that if any offered to pay the money,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">he might be present to pardon him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000554">Adriana stopped this melancholy procession,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">and cried out to the duke for justice,</span> 
    <span id="f000556">telling him that the abbess had refused to deliver up her lunatic husband to her care.</span> 
    <span id="f000557">While she was speaking,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">her real husband and his servant Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">who had got loose,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">came before the duke to demand justice,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">complaining that his wife had confined him on a false charge of lunacy;</span> 
    <span id="f000562">and telling in what manner he had broken his bands,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">and eluded the vigilance of his keepers.</span> 
    <span id="f000564">Adriana was strangely surprised to see her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">when she thought he had been within the convent.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000566">Ægeon,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">seeing his son,</span> 
    <span id="f000568">concluded this was the son who had left him to go in search of his mother and his brother;</span> 
    <span id="f000569">and he felt secure that his dear son would readily pay the money demanded for his ransom.</span> 
    <span id="f000570">He therefore spoke to Antipholus in words of fatherly affection,</span> 
    <span id="f000571">with joyful hope that he should now be released.</span> 
    <span id="f000572">But to the utter astonishment of Ægeon,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">his son denied all knowledge of him,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">as well he might,</span> 
    <span id="f000575">for this Antipholus had never seen his father since they were separated in the storm in his infancy;</span> 
    <span id="f000576">but while the poor old Ægeon was in vain endeavouring to make his son acknowledge him,</span> 
    <span id="f000577">thinking surely that either his griefs and the anxieties he had suffered had so strangely altered him that his son did not know him,</span> 
    <span id="f000578">or else that he was ashamed to acknowledge his father in his misery;</span> 
    <span id="f000579">in the midst of this perplexity,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">the lady abess and the other Antipholus and Dromio came out and the wondering Adriana saw two husbands and two romios standing before her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000581">And now these riddling errors,</span> 
    <span id="f000582">which had so perplexed them all,</span> 
    <span id="f000583">were clearly made out.</span> 
    <span id="f000584">When the duke saw the two Antipholuses and the two Dromios both so exactly alike,</span> 
    <span id="f000585">he at once conjectured aright of these seeming mysteries,</span> 
    <span id="f000586">for he remembered the story Ægeon had told him in the morning;</span> 
    <span id="f000587">and he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">these men must be the two sons of Ægeon and their twin slaves.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000589">But now an unlooked-for joy indeed completed the history of Ægeon;</span> 
    <span id="f000590">and the tale he had in the morning told in sorrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000591">and under sentence of death,</span> 
    <span id="f000592">before the setting sun went down was brought to a happy conclusion,</span> 
    <span id="f000593">for the venerable lady abbess made herself known to be the long-lost wife of Ægeon,</span> 
    <span id="f000594">and the fond mother of the two Antipholuses.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000595">When the fishermen took the eldest Antipholus and Dromio away from her,</span> 
    <span id="f000596">she entered a nunnery,</span> 
    <span id="f000597">and by her wise and virtuous conduct,</span> 
    <span id="f000598">she was at length made lady abbess of this convent,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">and in discharging the rites of hospitality to an unhappy stranger she had unknowingly protected her own son.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000600">Joyful congratulations and affectionate greetings between these long separated parents and their children made them for a while forget that Ægeon was yet under sentence of death;</span> 
    <span id="f000601">but when they were become a little calm,</span> 
    <span id="f000602">Antipholus of Ephesus offered the duke the ransom money for his father’s life;</span> 
    <span id="f000603">but the duke freely pardoned Ægeon,</span> 
    <span id="f000604">and would not take the money.</span> 
    <span id="f000605">And the duke went with the abbess and her newly found husband and children into the convent,</span> 
    <span id="f000606">to hear this happy family discourse at leisure of the blessed ending of their adverse fortunes.</span> 
    <span id="f000607">And the two Dromios’ humble joy must not be forgotten;</span> 
    <span id="f000608">they had their congratulations and greetings too,</span> 
    <span id="f000609">and each Dromio pleasantly complimented his brother on his good looks,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">being well pleased to see his own person (as in a glass) show so handsome in his brother.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000611">Adriana had so well profited by the good counsel of her mother-inlaw,</span> 
    <span id="f000612">that she never after cherished unjust suspicions,</span> 
    <span id="f000613">or was jealous of her husband.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000614">Antipholus of Syracuse married the fair Luciana,</span> 
    <span id="f000615">the sister of his brother’s wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000616">and the good old Ægeon,</span> 
    <span id="f000617">with his wife and sons,</span> 
    <span id="f000618">lived at Ephesus many years.</span> 
    <span id="f000619">Nor did the unravelling of these perplexities so entirely remove every ground of mistake for the future,</span> 
    <span id="f000620">but that sometimes,</span> 
    <span id="f000621">to remind them of adventures past,</span> 
    <span id="f000622">comical blunders would happen,</span> 
    <span id="f000623">and the one Antipholus,</span> 
    <span id="f000624">and the one Dromio,</span> 
    <span id="f000625">be mistaken for the other,</span> 
    <span id="f000626">making altogether a pleasant and diverting Comedy of Errors.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p014.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track15">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p016.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>