<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p015.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track16">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p017.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Measure for Measure</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">In the city of Vienna there once reigned a duke of such a mild and gentle temper,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">that he suffered his subjects to neglect the laws with impunity;</span> 
    <span id="f000004">and there was in particular one law,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">the existence of which was almost forgotten,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">the duke never having put it in force during his whole reign.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">This was a law dooming any man to the punishment of death,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">who should live with a woman that was not his wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and this law,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">through the lenity of the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">being utterly disregarded,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">the holy institution of marriage became neglected,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">and complaints were every day made to the duke by the parents of the young ladies in Vienna,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">that their daughters had been seduced from their rotection,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">and were living as the companions of single men.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">The good duke perceived with sorrow this growing evil among his subjects,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">but he thought that a sudden change in himself from the indulgence he had hitherto shown,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">to the strict severity requisite to check this abuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">would make his people (who had hitherto loved him) consider him as a tyrant;</span> 
    <span id="f000020">therefore he determined to absent himself a while from his dukedom,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">and depute another to the full exercise of his power,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">that the law against these dishonourable lovers might be put in effect,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">without giving offence by an unusual severity in kits own person.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">a man who bore the reputation of a saint in Vienna for his strict and rigid life,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">was chosen by the duke as a fit person to undertake this important change;</span> 
    <span id="f000027">and when the duke imparted his design to lord Escalus,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">his chief counsellor,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">Escalus said:</span> 
    <span id="f000030">«If any man in Vienna be of worth to undergo such ample grace and honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">it is lord Angelo.» And now the duke departed from Vienna under presence of making a journey into Poland,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">leaving Angelo to act as the lord deputy in his absence;</span> 
    <span id="f000033">but the duke’s absence was only a feigned one,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">for he privately returned to Vienna,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">habited like a friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">with the intent to watch unseen the conduct of the saintly-seeming Angelo.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000037">It happened just about the time that Angelo was invested with his new dignity,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">that a gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">whose name was Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">had seduced a young lady from her parents;</span> 
    <span id="f000041">and for this offence,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">by command of the new lord deputy,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">Claudio was taken up and committed to prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">and by virtue of the old law which had been so long neglected,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">Angelo sentenced Claudio to be beheaded.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">Great interest was made for the pardon of young Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">and the good old lord Escalus himself interceded for him.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">«Alas,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">«this gentleman whom I would save had an honourable father,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">for whose sake I pray you pardon the young man’s transgression.» But Angelo replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000051">«We must not make a scarecrow of the law,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">setting it up to frighten birds of prey,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">till custom,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">finding it harmless,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">makes it their perch,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">and not their terror.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">Sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">he must die.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">Lucio,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">the friend of Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">visited him in the prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">and Claudio said to him:</span> 
    <span id="f000063">«I pray you,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">Lucio,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">do me this kind service.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">Go to my sister Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">who this day proposes to enter the convent of Saint Clare;</span> 
    <span id="f000068">acquaint her with the danger of my state;</span> 
    <span id="f000069">implore her that she make friends with the strict deputy;</span> 
    <span id="f000070">bid her go herself to Angelo.</span> 
    <span id="f000071">I have great hopes in that;</span> 
    <span id="f000072">for she can discourse with prosperous art,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">and well she can persuade;</span> 
    <span id="f000074">besides,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">there is a speechless dialect in youthful sorrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">such as moves men.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000077">Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">the sister of Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">had,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">as he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">that day entered her noviciate in the convent,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">and it was her intent,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">after passing through her probation as a novice,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">to take the veil,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">and she was inquiring of a nun concerning the rules of the convent,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">when they heard the voice of Lucio,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">as he entered that religious house,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000090">«Peace be in this place!» — «Who is it that speaks?» said Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">«It is a man’s voice,» replied the nun:</span> 
    <span id="f000092">«Gentle Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">go to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">and learn his business;</span> 
    <span id="f000095">you may,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">I may not.</span> 
    <span id="f000097">When you have taken the veil,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">you must not speak with men but in the presence of the prioress;</span> 
    <span id="f000099">then if you speak you must not show your face,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">or if you show your face,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">you must not speak.» — «And have you nuns no further privileges?» said Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000102">«Are not these large enough?» replied the nun.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">truly,» said Isabel:</span> 
    <span id="f000105">«I speak not as desiring more,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">but rather wishing a more strict restraint upon the sisterhood,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">the votarists of Saint Clare.» Again they heard the voice of Lucio,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">and the nun said:</span> 
    <span id="f000109">«He calls again.</span> 
    <span id="f000110">I pray you answer him.» Isabel then went out to Lucio,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">and in answer to his salutation,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000113">«Peace and Prosperity!</span> 
    <span id="f000114">Who is it that calls?» Then Lucio,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">approaching her with reverence,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000117">«Hail,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">virgin,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">if such you be,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">as the roses on your cheeks proclaim you are no less!</span> 
    <span id="f000121">can you bring me to the sight of Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">a novice of this place,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">and the fair sister to her unhappy brother Claudio?» — «Why her unhappy brother?» said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">«let me ask!</span> 
    <span id="f000125">for I am that Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">and his sister.» — «Fair and gentle lady,» he replied,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">«your brother kindly greets you by me;</span> 
    <span id="f000128">he is in prison.» — «Woe is me!</span> 
    <span id="f000129">for what?» said Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000130">Lucio then told her,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">Claudio was imprisoned for seducing a young maiden.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">«Ah,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">«I fear it is my cousin Juliet.» Juliet and Isabel were not related,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">but they called each other cousin in remembrance of their school days’ friendship;</span> 
    <span id="f000135">and as Isabel knew that Juliet loved Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">she feared she had been led by her affection for him into this transgression.</span> 
    <span id="f000137">«She it is,»replied Lucio.</span> 
    <span id="f000138">«Why then,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">let my brother marry Juliet,» said Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000140">Lucio replied that Claudio would gladly marry Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">but that the lord deputy had sentenced him to die for his offence;</span> 
    <span id="f000142">«Unless,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">«you have the grace by your fair prayer to soften Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">and that is my business between you and your poor brother.» — «Alas!» said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">’what poor ability is there in me to do him good?</span> 
    <span id="f000146">I doubt I have no power to move Angelo.« — »Our doubts are traitors,« said Lucio,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">»and make us lose the good we might often win,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">by fearing to attempt it.</span> 
    <span id="f000149">Go to lord Angelo!</span> 
    <span id="f000150">When maidens sue,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">and kneel,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">and weep,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">men give like gods.« — »I will see what I can do,«said Isabel:</span> 
    <span id="f000154">»I will but stay to give the prioress notice of the affair,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">and then I will go to Angelo.</span> 
    <span id="f000156">Commend me to my brother:</span> 
    <span id="f000157">soon at night I will send him word of my success."</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000158">Isabel hastened to the palace,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">and threw herself on her knees before Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000161">«I am a woeful suitor to your honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">if it will please your honour to hear me.» — «Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">what is your suit?» said Angelo.</span> 
    <span id="f000164">She then made her petition in the most moving terms for her brother’s life.</span> 
    <span id="f000165">But Angelo said:</span> 
    <span id="f000166">«Maiden,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">there is no remedy;</span> 
    <span id="f000168">your brother is sentenced,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">and he must die.» — «O just,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">but severe law,»said Isabel:</span> 
    <span id="f000171">«I had a brother then — Heaven keep your honour!»and she was about to depart.</span> 
    <span id="f000172">But Lucio,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">who had accompanied her,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000175">«Give it not over so;</span> 
    <span id="f000176">return to him again,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">entreat him,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">kneel down before him,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">hang upon his gown.</span> 
    <span id="f000180">You are too cold;</span> 
    <span id="f000181">if you should need a pin,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">you could not with a more tame tongue desire it.» Then again Isabel on her knees implored for mercy.</span> 
    <span id="f000183">«He is sentenced,» said Angelo:</span> 
    <span id="f000184">«it is too late.» — «Too late!» said Isabel:</span> 
    <span id="f000185">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">no:</span> 
    <span id="f000187">I that do speak a word may call it back again.</span> 
    <span id="f000188">Believe this,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">no ceremony that to great ones belongs,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">not the king’s crown,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">nor the deputed sword,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">the marshal’s truncheon,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">nor the judge’s robe,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">becomes them with one half so good a grace as mercy does.» — «Pray you begone,» said Angelo.</span> 
    <span id="f000196">But still Isabel entreated,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000198">«If my brother had been as you,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">and you as he,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">you might have slipped like him,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">but he,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">like you,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">would not have been so stern.</span> 
    <span id="f000204">I would to heaven I had your power,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">and you were Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000206">Should it then be thus?</span> 
    <span id="f000207">No.</span> 
    <span id="f000208">I would tell you what it were to be a judge,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">and what a prisoner.» — «Be content,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">fair maid!» said Angelo:</span> 
    <span id="f000211">«it is the law,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">not I,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">condemns your brother.</span> 
    <span id="f000214">Were he my kinsman,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">my brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">or my son,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">it should be thus with him.</span> 
    <span id="f000218">He must die to-morrow.» — «To-morrow?» said Isabel;</span> 
    <span id="f000219">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">that is sudden:</span> 
    <span id="f000221">spare him,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">spare him;</span> 
    <span id="f000223">he is not prepared for death.</span> 
    <span id="f000224">Even for our kitchens we kill the fowl in season;</span> 
    <span id="f000225">shall we serve Heaven with less respect than we minister to our gross selves?</span> 
    <span id="f000226">Good,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">good,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">bethink you,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">none have died for my brother’s offence,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">though many have committed it.</span> 
    <span id="f000232">So you would be the first that gives this sentence,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">and he the first that suffers it.</span> 
    <span id="f000234">Go to your own bosom,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">my lord;</span> 
    <span id="f000236">knock there,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">and ask your heart what it does know that is like my brother’s fault;</span> 
    <span id="f000238">if it confess a natural guiltiness such as his is,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">let it not sound a thought against my brother’s life!» Her last words more moved Angelo than all she had before said,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">for the beauty of Isabel had raised a guilty passion in his heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">and he began to form thoughts of dishonourable love,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">such as Claudio’s crime had been;</span> 
    <span id="f000243">and the conflict in his mind made him to turn away from Isabel;</span> 
    <span id="f000244">but she called him back,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000246">«Gentle my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">turn back;</span> 
    <span id="f000248">hark,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">how I will bribe you.</span> 
    <span id="f000250">Good my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">turn back!» — «How,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">bribe me!»said Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">astonished that she should think of offering him a bribe.</span> 
    <span id="f000254">«Ay,» said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">«with such gifts that Heaven itself shall share with you;</span> 
    <span id="f000256">not with golden treasures,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">or those glittering stones,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">whose price is either rich or poor as fancy values them,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">but with true prayers that shall be up to Heaven before sunrise, — prayers from preserved souls,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">from fasting maids whose minds are dedicated to nothing temporal.» — «Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">come to me to-morrow,» said Angelo.</span> 
    <span id="f000262">And for this short respite of her brother’s life,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">and for this permission that she might be heard again,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">she left him with the joyful hope that she should at last prevail over his stern nature:</span> 
    <span id="f000265">and as she went away she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000266">«Heaven keep your honour safe!</span> 
    <span id="f000267">Heaven save your honour!» Which when Angelo heard,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">he said within his heart:</span> 
    <span id="f000269">«Amen,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">I would be saved from thee and from thy virtues»:</span> 
    <span id="f000271">and then,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">affrighted at his own evil thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000274">«What is this?</span> 
    <span id="f000275">What is this?</span> 
    <span id="f000276">Do I love her,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">that I desire to hear her speak again,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">and feast upon her eyes?</span> 
    <span id="f000279">What is it I dream on?</span> 
    <span id="f000280">The cunning enemy of mankind,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">to catch a saint,</span> 
    <span id="f000282">with saints does bait the hook.</span> 
    <span id="f000283">Never could an immodest woman once stir my temper,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">but this virtuous woman subdues me quite.</span> 
    <span id="f000285">Even till now,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">when men were fond,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">I smiled and wondered at them.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000288">In the guilty conflict in his mind Angelo suffered more that night than the prisoner he had so severely sentenced;</span> 
    <span id="f000289">for in the prison Claudio was visited by the good duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">in his friar’s habit,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">taught the young man the way to heaven,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">preaching to him the words of penitence and peace.</span> 
    <span id="f000294">But Angelo felt all the pangs of irresolute guilt:</span> 
    <span id="f000295">now wishing to seduce Isabel from the paths of innocence and honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">and now suffering remorse and horror for a crime as yet but intentional.</span> 
    <span id="f000297">But in the end his evil thoughts prevailed;</span> 
    <span id="f000298">and he who had so lately started at the offer of a bribe,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">resolved to tempt this maiden with so high a bribe,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">as she might not be able to resist,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">even with the precious gift of her dear brother’s life.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000302">When Isabel came in the morning,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">Angelo desired she might be admitted alone to his presence:</span> 
    <span id="f000304">and being there,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">he said to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">if she would yield to him her virgin honour and transgress even as Juliet had done with Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">he would give her her brother’s life;</span> 
    <span id="f000308">«For,» said he,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">«I love you,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">Isabel.» — «My brother,» said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">«did so love Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000312">and yet you tell me he shall die for it.» «But,» said Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">«Claudio shall not die,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">if you will consent to visit me by stealth at night,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">even as Juliet left her father’s house at night to come to Claudio.» Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">in amazement at his words,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">that he should tempt her to the same fault for which he passed sentence upon her brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000319">«I would do as much for my poor brother as for myself;</span> 
    <span id="f000320">that is,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">were I under sentence of death,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">the impression of keen whips I would wear as rubies,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">and go to my death as to a bed that longing I had been sick for,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">ere I would yield myself up to this shame.» And then she told him,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">she hoped he only spoke these words to try her virtue.</span> 
    <span id="f000326">But he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000327">«Believe me,</span> 
    <span id="f000328">on my honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">my words express my purpose.» Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">angered to the heart to hear him use the word Honour to express such dishonourable purposes,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000332">«Ha!</span> 
    <span id="f000333">little honour to be much believed;</span> 
    <span id="f000334">and most pernicious purpose.</span> 
    <span id="f000335">I will proclaim thee,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">look for it!</span> 
    <span id="f000338">Sign me a present pardon for my brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">or I will tell the world aloud what man thou art!» — «Who will believe you,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">Isabel?» said Angelo;</span> 
    <span id="f000341">«my unsoiled name,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">the austereness of my life,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">my word vouched against yours,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">will outweigh your accusation.</span> 
    <span id="f000345">Redeem your brother by yielding to my will,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">or he shall die to-morrow.</span> 
    <span id="f000347">As for you,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">say what you can,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">my false will overweigh your true story.</span> 
    <span id="f000350">Answer me tomorrow.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000351">«To whom should I complain?</span> 
    <span id="f000352">Did I tell this,</span> 
    <span id="f000353">who would believe me?» said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">as she went towards the dreary prison where her brother was confined.</span> 
    <span id="f000355">When she arrived there,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">her brother was in pious conversation with the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">who in his friar’s habit had also visited Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">and brought both these guilty lovers to a proper sense of their fault;</span> 
    <span id="f000359">and unhappy Juliet with tears and a true remorse confessed that she was more to blame than Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">in that she willingly consented to his dishonourable solicitations.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000361">As Isabel entered the room where Claudio was confined,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000363">«Peace be here,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">grace,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">and good company!» «Who is there?» said the disguised duke;</span> 
    <span id="f000366">«come in;</span> 
    <span id="f000367">the wish deserves a welcome.» — «My business as a word or two with Claudio,» said Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000368">Then the duke left them together,</span> 
    <span id="f000369">and desired the provost,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">who had the charge of the prisoners,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">to place him where he might overhear their conversation.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000372">«Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">what is the comfort?» said Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000375">Isabel told him he must prepare for death on the morrow.</span> 
    <span id="f000376">«Is there no remedy?» said Claudio. — «Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">brother,» replied Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">«there is,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">but such a one,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">as if you consented to it would strip your honour from you,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">and leave you naked.» — «Let me know the point,» said Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000382">«O,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">I do fear you,</span> 
    <span id="f000384">Claudio!» replied his sister;</span> 
    <span id="f000385">«and I quake,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">lest you should wish to live,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">and more respect the trifling term of six or seven winters added to your life,</span> 
    <span id="f000388">then your perpetual honour!</span> 
    <span id="f000389">Do you dare to die?</span> 
    <span id="f000390">The sense of death is most in apprehension,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">and the poor beetle that we tread upon,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">feels a pang as great as when a giant dies.» «Why do you give me this shame?» said Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000393">«Think you I can fetch a resolution from flowery tenderness?</span> 
    <span id="f000394">If I must die,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">I will encounter darkness as a bride,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">and hug it in my arms.» — «There spoke my brother,» said Isabel;</span> 
    <span id="f000397">«there my father’s grave did utter forth a voice.</span> 
    <span id="f000398">Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">you must die;</span> 
    <span id="f000400">yet would you think it,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">Claudio!</span> 
    <span id="f000402">this outward sainted deputy,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">if I would yield to him my virgin honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">would grant your life.</span> 
    <span id="f000405">O,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">were it but my life,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">I would lay it down for your deliverance as frankly as a pin!» — «Thanks,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">dear Isabel,» said Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000409">«Be ready to die to-morrow,» said Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000410">«Death is a fearful thing,» said Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000411">«And shamed life a hateful,» replied his sister.</span> 
    <span id="f000412">But the thoughts of death now overcame the constancy of Claudio’s temper,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">and terrors,</span> 
    <span id="f000414">such as the guilty only at their deaths do know,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">assailing him,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">he cried out:</span> 
    <span id="f000417">«Sweet sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000418">let me live!</span> 
    <span id="f000419">The sin you do to save a brother’s life,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">nature dispenses with the deed so far,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">that it becomes a virtue.» — «O faithless coward!</span> 
    <span id="f000422">O dishonest wretch!» said Isabel;</span> 
    <span id="f000423">«would you preserve your life by your sister’s shame?</span> 
    <span id="f000424">O fie,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">fie,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">fie!</span> 
    <span id="f000427">I thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">my brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">you had in you such a mind of honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">that had you twenty heads to render up on twenty blocks,</span> 
    <span id="f000431">you would have yielded them up all,</span> 
    <span id="f000432">before your sister should stoop to such dishonour.» «Nay,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">hear me,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">Isabel!» said Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000435">But what he would have said in defence of his weakness,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">in desiring to live by the dishonour of his virtuous sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">was interrupted by the entrance of the duke;</span> 
    <span id="f000438">who said:</span> 
    <span id="f000439">«Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">I have overheard what has passed between you and your sister.</span> 
    <span id="f000441">Angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her;</span> 
    <span id="f000442">what he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">has only been to make trial of her virtue.</span> 
    <span id="f000444">She having the truth of honour in her,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">has given him that gracious denial which he is most glad to receive.</span> 
    <span id="f000446">There is no hope that he will pardon you;</span> 
    <span id="f000447">therefore pass your hours in prayer,</span> 
    <span id="f000448">and make ready for death.» Then Claudio repented of his weakness,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">and said:</span> 
    <span id="f000450">«Let me ask my sister’s pardon!</span> 
    <span id="f000451">I am so out of love with life,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">that I will sue to be rid of it.» And Claudio retired,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">overwhelmed with shame and sorrow for his fault.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000454">The duke being now alone with Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000455">commended her virtuous resolution,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000457">«The hand that made you fair,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">has made you good.» — «O,»said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">«how much is the good duke deceived in Angelo!</span> 
    <span id="f000460">if ever he return,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">and I can speak to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">I will discover his government.» Isabel knew not that she was even now making the discovery she threatened.</span> 
    <span id="f000463">The duke replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000464">«That shall not be much amiss;</span> 
    <span id="f000465">yet as the matter now stands,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">Angelo will repel your accusation;</span> 
    <span id="f000467">therefore lend an attentive ear to my advisings.</span> 
    <span id="f000468">I believe that you may most righteously do a poor wronged lady a merited benefit,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">redeem your brother from the angry law,</span> 
    <span id="f000470">do no stain to your own most gracious person,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">and much please the absent duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000472">if peradventure he shall ever return to have notice of this business.» Isabel said,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">she had a spirit to do anything he desired,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">provided it was nothing wrong.</span> 
    <span id="f000475">«Virtue is bold,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">and never fearful,» said the duke:</span> 
    <span id="f000477">and then he asked her,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">if she had ever heard of Mariana,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">the sister of Frederick,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">the great soldier who was drowned at sea.</span> 
    <span id="f000481">«I have heard of the lady,» said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">«and good words went with her name.» — «This lady,» said the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">«is the wife of Angelo;</span> 
    <span id="f000484">but her marriage dowry was on board the vessel in which her brother perished,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">and mark how heavily this befell to the poor gentlewoman!</span> 
    <span id="f000486">for,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">beside the loss of a most noble and renowned brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">who in his love towards her was ever most kind and natural,</span> 
    <span id="f000489">in the wreck of her fortune she lost the affections of her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">the well-seeming Angelo;</span> 
    <span id="f000491">who pretending to discover some dishonour in this honourable lady (though the true cause was the loss of her dowry) left her in tears,</span> 
    <span id="f000492">and dried not one of them with his comfort.</span> 
    <span id="f000493">His unjust unkindness,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">that in all reason should have quenched her love,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">has,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">like an impediment in the current,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">made it more unruly,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">and Mariana loves her cruel husband with the full continuance of her first affection.» The duke then more plainly unfolded his plan.</span> 
    <span id="f000499">It was,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">that Isabel should go to lord Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">and seemingly consent to come to him as he desired at midnight;</span> 
    <span id="f000502">that by this means she would obtain the promised pardon;</span> 
    <span id="f000503">and that Mariana should go in her stead to the appointment,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">and pass herself upon Angelo in the dark for Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000505">«Nor,</span> 
    <span id="f000506">gentle daughter,» said the feigned friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">«fear you to do this thing;</span> 
    <span id="f000508">Angelo is her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">and to bring them thus together is no sin.» Isabel being pleased with this project,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">departed to do as he directed her;</span> 
    <span id="f000511">and he went to apprise Mariana of their intention.</span> 
    <span id="f000512">He had before this time visited this unhappy lady in his assumed character,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">giving her religious instruction and friendly consolation,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">at which times he had learned her sad story from her own lips;</span> 
    <span id="f000515">and now she,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">looking upon him as a holy man,</span> 
    <span id="f000517">readily consented to be directed by him in this undertaking.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000518">When Isabel returned from her interview with Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">to the house of Mariana,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">where the duke had appointed her to meet him,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000522">«Well met,</span> 
    <span id="f000523">and in good time;</span> 
    <span id="f000524">what is the news from this good deputy?» Isabel related the manner in which she had settled the affair.</span> 
    <span id="f000525">«Angelo,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">«has a garden surrounded with a brick wall,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">on the western side of which is a vineyard,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">and to that vineyard is a gate.» And then she showed to the duke and Mariana two keys that Angelo had given her;</span> 
    <span id="f000529">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000530">«This bigger key opens the vineyard gate;</span> 
    <span id="f000531">this other a little door which leads from the vineyard to the garden.</span> 
    <span id="f000532">There I have made my promise at the dead of the night to call upon him,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">and have got from him his word of assurance for my brother’s life.</span> 
    <span id="f000534">I have taken a due and wary note of the place;</span> 
    <span id="f000535">and with whispering and most guilty diligence he showed me the way twice over.» — «Are there no other tokens agreed upon between you,</span> 
    <span id="f000536">that Mariana must observe?» said the duke.</span> 
    <span id="f000537">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">none,» said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">«only to go when it is dark.</span> 
    <span id="f000540">I have told him my time can be but short;</span> 
    <span id="f000541">for I have made him think a servant comes along with me,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">and that this servant is persuaded I come about my brother.» The duke commended her discreet management,</span> 
    <span id="f000543">and she,</span> 
    <span id="f000544">turning to Mariana,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000546">«Little have you to say to Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000547">when you depart from him,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">but soft and low:</span> 
    <span id="f000549">Remember now my brother!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000550">Mariana was that night conducted to the appointed place by Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000551">who rejoiced that she had,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">as she supposed,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">by this device preserved both her brother’s life and her own honour.</span> 
    <span id="f000554">But that her brother’s life was safe the duke was not well satisfied,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">and therefore at midnight he again repaired to the prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000556">and it was well for Claudio that he did so,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">else would Claudio have that night been beheaded;</span> 
    <span id="f000558">for soon after the duke entered the prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">an order came from the cruel deputy,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">commanding that Claudio should be beheaded,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">and his head sent to him by five o’clock in the morning.</span> 
    <span id="f000562">But the duke persuaded the provost to put off the execution of Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">and to deceive Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000564">by sending him the head of a man who died that morning in the prison.</span> 
    <span id="f000565">And to prevail upon the provost to agree to this,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">whom still the provost suspected not to be anything more or greater than he seemed,</span> 
    <span id="f000568">showed the provost a letter written with the duke’s hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000569">and sealed with his seal,</span> 
    <span id="f000570">which when the provost saw,</span> 
    <span id="f000571">he concluded this friar must have some secret order from the absent duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000572">and therefore he consented to spare Claudio;</span> 
    <span id="f000573">and he cut off the dead man’s head,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">and carried it to Angelo.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000575">Then the duke in his own name,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">wrote to Angelo a letter,</span> 
    <span id="f000577">saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000578">that certain accidents had put a stop to his journey,</span> 
    <span id="f000579">and that he should be in Vienna by the following morning,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">requiring Angelo to meet him at the entrance of the city,</span> 
    <span id="f000581">there to deliver up his authority;</span> 
    <span id="f000582">and the duke also commanded it to be proclaimed,</span> 
    <span id="f000583">that if any of his subjects craved redress for injustice,</span> 
    <span id="f000584">they should exhibit their petitions in the street on his first entrance into the city.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000585">Early in the morning Isabel came to the prison,</span> 
    <span id="f000586">and the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000587">who there awaited her coming,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">for secret reasons thought it good to tell her that Claudio was beheaded;</span> 
    <span id="f000589">therefore when Isabel inquired if Angelo had sent the pardon for her brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000590">he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000591">«Angelo has released Claudio from this world.</span> 
    <span id="f000592">His head is off,</span> 
    <span id="f000593">and sent to the deputy.» The much-grieved sister cried out:</span> 
    <span id="f000594">«O unhappy Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000595">wretched Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000596">injurious world,</span> 
    <span id="f000597">most wicked Angelo!» The seeming friar bid her take comfort,</span> 
    <span id="f000598">and when she was become a little calm,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">he acquainted her with the near prospect of the duke’s return,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">and told her in what manner she should proceed in preferring her complaint against Angelo;</span> 
    <span id="f000601">and he bade her not fear if the cause should seem to go against her for a while.</span> 
    <span id="f000602">Leaving Isabel sufficiently instructed,</span> 
    <span id="f000603">he next went to Mariana,</span> 
    <span id="f000604">and gave her counsel in what manner she also should act.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000605">Then the duke laid aside his friar’s habit,</span> 
    <span id="f000606">and in his own royal robes,</span> 
    <span id="f000607">amidst a joyful crowd of his faithful subjects,</span> 
    <span id="f000608">assembled to greet his arrival,</span> 
    <span id="f000609">entered the city of Vienna,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">where he was met by Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000611">who delivered up his authority in the proper form.</span> 
    <span id="f000612">And there came Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000613">in the manner of a petitioner for redress,</span> 
    <span id="f000614">and said:</span> 
    <span id="f000615">«Justice,</span> 
    <span id="f000616">most royal duke!</span> 
    <span id="f000617">I am the sister of one Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000618">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000619">for the seducing a young maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000620">was condemned to lose his head.</span> 
    <span id="f000621">I made my suit to lord Angelo for my brother’s pardon.</span> 
    <span id="f000622">It were needless to tell your grace how I prayed and kneeled,</span> 
    <span id="f000623">how he repelled me,</span> 
    <span id="f000624">and how I replied;</span> 
    <span id="f000625">for this was of much length.</span> 
    <span id="f000626">The vile conclusion I now begin with grief and shame to utter.</span> 
    <span id="f000627">Angelo would not but by my yielding to his dishonourable love release my brother;</span> 
    <span id="f000628">and after much debate within myself,</span> 
    <span id="f000629">my sisterly remorse overcame my virtue,</span> 
    <span id="f000630">and I did yield to him.</span> 
    <span id="f000631">But the next morning betimes,</span> 
    <span id="f000632">Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000633">forfeiting his promise,</span> 
    <span id="f000634">sent a warrant for my poor brother’s head!» The duke affected to disbelieve her story;</span> 
    <span id="f000635">and Angelo said that grief for her brother’s death,</span> 
    <span id="f000636">who had suffered by the due course of the law,</span> 
    <span id="f000637">had disordered her senses.</span> 
    <span id="f000638">And now another suitor approached,</span> 
    <span id="f000639">which was Mariana;</span> 
    <span id="f000640">and Mariana said:</span> 
    <span id="f000641">«Noble prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000642">as there comes light from heaven,</span> 
    <span id="f000643">and truth from breath,</span> 
    <span id="f000644">as there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,</span> 
    <span id="f000645">I am this man’s wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000646">and my good lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000647">the words of Isabel are false;</span> 
    <span id="f000648">for the night she says was with Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000649">I passed that night with him in the garden-house.</span> 
    <span id="f000650">As this is true,</span> 
    <span id="f000651">let me in safety rise,</span> 
    <span id="f000652">or else for ever be fixed here a marble monument.» Then did Isabel appeal for the truth of what she had said to friar Lodowick,</span> 
    <span id="f000653">that being the name the duke had assumed in his disguise.</span> 
    <span id="f000654">Isabel and Mariana had both obeyed his instructions in what they said,</span> 
    <span id="f000655">the duke intending that the innocence of Isabel should be plainly proved in that public manner before the whole city of Vienna;</span> 
    <span id="f000656">but Angelo little thought that it was from such a cause that they thus differed in their story,</span> 
    <span id="f000657">and he hoped from their contradictory evidence to be able to clear himself from the accusation of Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000658">and he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000659">assuming the look of offended innocence:</span> 
    <span id="f000660">«I did but smile till now;</span> 
    <span id="f000661">but,</span> 
    <span id="f000662">good my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000663">my patience here is touched,</span> 
    <span id="f000664">and I perceive these poor distracted women are but the instruments of some greater one,</span> 
    <span id="f000665">who sets them on.</span> 
    <span id="f000666">Let me have way,</span> 
    <span id="f000667">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000668">to find this practice out.» — «Ay,</span> 
    <span id="f000669">with all my heart,» said the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000670">«and punish them to the height of your pleasure.</span> 
    <span id="f000671">You,</span> 
    <span id="f000672">lord Escalus,</span> 
    <span id="f000673">sit with lord Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000674">lend him your pains to discover this abuse;</span> 
    <span id="f000675">the friar is sent for that set them on,</span> 
    <span id="f000676">and when he comes,</span> 
    <span id="f000677">do with your injuries as may seem best in any chastisement.</span> 
    <span id="f000678">I for a while will leave you,</span> 
    <span id="f000679">but stir not you,</span> 
    <span id="f000680">lord Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000681">till you have well determined upon this slander.» The duke then went away,</span> 
    <span id="f000682">leaving Angelo well pleased to be deputed judge and umpire in his own cause.</span> 
    <span id="f000683">But the duke was absent only while he threw off his royal robes and put on his friar’s habit;</span> 
    <span id="f000684">and in that disguise again he presented himself before Angelo and Escalus:</span> 
    <span id="f000685">and the good old Escalus,</span> 
    <span id="f000686">who thought Angelo had been falsely accused,</span> 
    <span id="f000687">said to the supposed friar:</span> 
    <span id="f000688">«Come,</span> 
    <span id="f000689">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000690">did you set these women on to slander lord Angelo?» He replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000691">«Where is the duke?</span> 
    <span id="f000692">It is he who should hear me speak.» Escalus said:</span> 
    <span id="f000693">«The duke is in us,</span> 
    <span id="f000694">and we will hear you.</span> 
    <span id="f000695">Speak justly.» — «Boldly at least,» retorted the friar;</span> 
    <span id="f000696">and then he blamed the duke for leaving the cause of Isabel in the hands of him she had accused,</span> 
    <span id="f000697">and spoke so freely of many corrupt practices he had observed,</span> 
    <span id="f000698">while,</span> 
    <span id="f000699">as he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000700">he had been a looker-on in Vienna,</span> 
    <span id="f000701">that Escalus threatened him with the torture for speaking words against the state,</span> 
    <span id="f000702">and for censuring the conduct of the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000703">and ordered him to be taken away to prison.</span> 
    <span id="f000704">Then,</span> 
    <span id="f000705">to the amazement of all present,</span> 
    <span id="f000706">and to the utter confusion of Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000707">the supposed friar threw off his disguise,</span> 
    <span id="f000708">and they saw it was the duke himself.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000709">The duke first addressed Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000710">He said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000711">«Come hither,</span> 
    <span id="f000712">Isabel.</span> 
    <span id="f000713">Your friar is now your prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000714">but with my habit I have not changed my heart.</span> 
    <span id="f000715">I am still devoted to your service.» «O give me pardon,» said Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000716">«that I,</span> 
    <span id="f000717">your vassal,</span> 
    <span id="f000718">have employed and troubled your unknown sovereignty.» He answered that he had most need of forgiveness from her,</span> 
    <span id="f000719">for not having prevented the death of her brother for not yet would he tell her that Claudio was living;</span> 
    <span id="f000720">meaning first to make a further trial of her goodness.</span> 
    <span id="f000721">Angelo now knew the duke had been a secret witness of his bad deeds,</span> 
    <span id="f000722">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000723">«O my dread lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000724">I should be guiltier than my guiltiness,</span> 
    <span id="f000725">to think I can be undiscernible,</span> 
    <span id="f000726">when I perceive your grace,</span> 
    <span id="f000727">like power divine,</span> 
    <span id="f000728">has looked upon my actions.</span> 
    <span id="f000729">Then,</span> 
    <span id="f000730">good prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000731">no longer prolong my shame,</span> 
    <span id="f000732">but let my trial be my own confession.</span> 
    <span id="f000733">Immediate sentence and death is all the grace I beg.» The duke replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000734">«Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000735">thy faults are manifest.</span> 
    <span id="f000736">We do condemn thee to the very block where Claudio stooped to death;</span> 
    <span id="f000737">and with like haste away with him;</span> 
    <span id="f000738">and for his possessions,</span> 
    <span id="f000739">Mariana,</span> 
    <span id="f000740">we do instate and widow you withal,</span> 
    <span id="f000741">to buy a better husband.» — «O my dear lord,» said Mariana,</span> 
    <span id="f000742">«I crave no other,</span> 
    <span id="f000743">nor no better man»:</span> 
    <span id="f000744">and then on her knees,</span> 
    <span id="f000745">even as Isabel had begged the life of Claudio,</span> 
    <span id="f000746">did this kind wife of an ungrateful husband beg the life of Angelo;</span> 
    <span id="f000747">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000748">«Gentle my liege,</span> 
    <span id="f000749">O good my lord!</span> 
    <span id="f000750">Sweet Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000751">take my part!</span> 
    <span id="f000752">Lend me your knees,</span> 
    <span id="f000753">and all my life to come I will lend you all my life,</span> 
    <span id="f000754">to do you service!» The duke said:</span> 
    <span id="f000755">«Against all sense you importune her.</span> 
    <span id="f000756">Should Isabel kneel down to beg for mercy,</span> 
    <span id="f000757">her brother’s ghost would break his paved bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000758">and take her hence in horror.» Still Mariana said:</span> 
    <span id="f000759">«Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000760">sweet Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000761">do but kneel by me,</span> 
    <span id="f000762">hold up your hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000763">say nothing!</span> 
    <span id="f000764">I will speak all.</span> 
    <span id="f000765">They say,</span> 
    <span id="f000766">best men are moulded out of faults,</span> 
    <span id="f000767">and for the most part become much the better for being a little bad.</span> 
    <span id="f000768">So may my husband.</span> 
    <span id="f000769">Oh Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000770">will you not lend a knee?» The duke then said:</span> 
    <span id="f000771">«He dies for Claudio,» But much pleased was the good duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000772">when his own Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000773">from whom he expected all gracious and honourable acts,</span> 
    <span id="f000774">kneeled down before him,</span> 
    <span id="f000775">and said:</span> 
    <span id="f000776">«Most bounteous sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000777">look,</span> 
    <span id="f000778">if it please you,</span> 
    <span id="f000779">on this man condemned,</span> 
    <span id="f000780">as if my brother lived.</span> 
    <span id="f000781">I partly think a due sincerity governed his deeds,</span> 
    <span id="f000782">till he did look on me.</span> 
    <span id="f000783">Since it is so,</span> 
    <span id="f000784">let him not die!</span> 
    <span id="f000785">My brother had but justice,</span> 
    <span id="f000786">in that he did the thing for which he died.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000787">The duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000788">as the best reply he could make to this noble petitioner for her enemy’s life,</span> 
    <span id="f000789">sending for Claudio from his prison-house,</span> 
    <span id="f000790">where he lay doubtful of his destiny,</span> 
    <span id="f000791">presented to her this lamented bother living;</span> 
    <span id="f000792">and he said to Isabel:</span> 
    <span id="f000793">«Give me your hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000794">Isabel;</span> 
    <span id="f000795">for your lovely sake I pardon Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000796">Say you will be mine,</span> 
    <span id="f000797">and he shall be my brother too.» By this time lord Angelo perceived he was safe;</span> 
    <span id="f000798">and the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000799">observing his eye to brighten up a little,</span> 
    <span id="f000800">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000801">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000802">Angelo,</span> 
    <span id="f000803">look that you love your wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000804">her worth has obtained your pardon:</span> 
    <span id="f000805">joy to you,</span> 
    <span id="f000806">Mariana!</span> 
    <span id="f000807">Love her,</span> 
    <span id="f000808">Angelo!</span> 
    <span id="f000809">I have confessed her,</span> 
    <span id="f000810">and know her virtue.» Angelo remembered,</span> 
    <span id="f000811">when dressed in a little brief authority,</span> 
    <span id="f000812">how hard his heart had been,</span> 
    <span id="f000813">and felt how sweet is mercy.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000814">The duke commanded Claudio to marry Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000815">and offered himself again to the acceptance of Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000816">whose virtuous and noble conduct had won her prince’s heart.</span> 
    <span id="f000817">Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000818">not having taken the veil,</span> 
    <span id="f000819">was free to marry;</span> 
    <span id="f000820">and the friendly offices,</span> 
    <span id="f000821">while hid under the disguise of a humble friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000822">which the noble duke had done for her,</span> 
    <span id="f000823">made her with grateful joy accept the honour he offered her;</span> 
    <span id="f000824">and when she became duchess of Vienna,</span> 
    <span id="f000825">the excellent example of the virtuous Isabel worked such a complete reformation among the young ladies of that city that from that time none ever fell into the transgression of Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000826">the repentant wife of the reformed Claudio.</span> 
    <span id="f000827">And the mercy-loving duke long reigned with his beloved Isabel,</span> 
    <span id="f000828">the happiest of husbands and of princes.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p015.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track16">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p017.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>