<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p016.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track17">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p018.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Twelfth Night; or, What You Will</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Sebastian and his sister Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">a young gentleman and lady of Messaline,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">were twins,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">and (which was accounted a great wonder) from their birth they so much resembled each other,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">that,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">but for the difference in their dress,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">they could not be known apart.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">They were both born in one hour,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and in one hour they were both in danger of perishing,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">for they were shipwrecked on the coast of Illyria,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">as they were making a sea-voyage together.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">The ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">on board of which they were,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">split on a rock in a violent storm,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">and a very small number of the ship’s company escaped with their lives.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">The captain of the vessel,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">with a few of the sailors that were saved,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">got to land in a small boat,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">and with them they brought Viola safe on shore,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">where she,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">poor lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">instead of rejoicing at her own deliverance,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">began to lament her brother’s loss;</span> 
    <span id="f000025">but the captain comforted her with the assurance that he had seen her brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">when the ship split,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">fasten himself to a strong mast,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">on which,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">as long as he could see anything of him for the distance,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">he perceived him borne up above the waves.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">Viola was much consoled by the hope this account gave her,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">and now considered how she was to dispose of herself in a strange country,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">so far from home;</span> 
    <span id="f000034">and she asked the captain if he knew anything of Illyria.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">«Ay,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">very well,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">madam,» replied the captain,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">«for I was born not three hours’ travel from this place.» — «Who governs here?» said Viola.</span> 
    <span id="f000039">The captain told her,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">Illyria was governed by Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">a duke noble in nature as well as dignity.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">Viola said,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">she had heard her father speak of Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">and that he was unmarried then.</span> 
    <span id="f000045">«And he is so now,» said the captain;</span> 
    <span id="f000046">«or was so very lately,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">for,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">but a month ago,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">I went from here,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">and then it was the general talk (as you know what great ones do,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">the people will prattle of) that Orsino sought the love of fair Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">a virtuous maid,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">the daughter of a count who died twelve months ago,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">leaving Olivia to the protection of her brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">who shortly after died also;</span> 
    <span id="f000056">and for the love of this dear brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">they say,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">she has abjured the sight and company of men.» Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">who was herself in such a sad affliction for her brother’s loss,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">wished she could live with this lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">who so tenderly mourned a brother’s death.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">She asked the captain if he could introduce her to Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">saying she would willingly serve this lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000064">But he replied,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">this would be a hard thing to accomplish,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">because the lady Olivia would admit no person into her house since her brother’s death,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">not even the duke himself.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">Then Viola formed another project in her mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">which was,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">in a man’s habit,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">to serve the duke Orsino as a page.</span> 
    <span id="f000072">It was a strange fancy in a young lady to put on male attire,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">and pass for a boy;</span> 
    <span id="f000074">but the forlorn and unprotected state of Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">who was young and of uncommon beauty,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">alone,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">and in a foreign land,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">must plead her excuse.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000079">She having observed a fair behaviour in the captain,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and that he showed a friendly concern for her welfare,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">entrusted him with her design,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">and he readily engaged to assist her.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">Viola gave him money,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">and directed him to furnish her with suitable apparel,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">ordering her clothes to be made of the same colour and in the same fashion her brother Sebastian used to wear,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and when she was dressed in her manly garb,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">she looked so exactly like her brother that some strange errors happened by means of their being mistaken for each other;</span> 
    <span id="f000088">for,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">as will afterwards appear,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">Sebastian was also saved.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000091">Viola’s good friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">the captain,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">when he had transformed this pretty lady into a gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">having some interest at court,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">got her presented to Orsino under the feigned name of Cesario.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">The duke was wonderfully pleased with the address and graceful deportment of this handsome youth,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">and made Cesario one of his pages that being the office Viola wished to obtain:</span> 
    <span id="f000098">and she so well fulfilled the duties of her new station,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">and showed such a ready observance and faithful attachment to he lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">that she soon became his most favoured attendant;.</span> 
    <span id="f000101">To Cesario Orsino confided the whole history of his love for the lady Olivia.</span> 
    <span id="f000102">To Cesario he told the long and unsuccessful suit he had made to one who,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">rejecting his long services,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">and despising his person,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">refused to admit him to her presence;</span> 
    <span id="f000106">and for the love of this lady who had so unkindly treated him,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">the noble Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">forsaking the sports of the held and all manly exercises in which he used to delight,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">passed his hours in ignoble sloth,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">listening to the effeminate sounds of soft music,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">gentle airs,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">and passionate love-songs;</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and neglecting the company of the wise and learned lords with whom he used to associate,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">he was now all day long conversing with young Cesario.</span> 
    <span id="f000115">Unmeet companion no doubt his grave courtiers thought Cesario was for their once noble master,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">the great duke Orsino.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000117">It is a dangerous matter for young maidens to be the confidants of handsome young dukes;</span> 
    <span id="f000118">which Viola too soon found to her sorrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">for all that Orsino told her he endured for Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">she presently perceived she suffered for the love of him;</span> 
    <span id="f000121">and much it moved her wonder,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">that Olivia could be so regardless of this her peerless lord and master,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">whom she thought no one could behold without the deepest admiration,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and she ventured gently to hint to Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">that it was a pity he should affect a lady who was so blind to his worthy qualities;</span> 
    <span id="f000126">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000127">«If a lady were to love you,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">as you love Olivia (and perhaps there may be one who does),</span> 
    <span id="f000130">if you could not love her in return,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">would you not tell her that you could not love,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">and must she not be content with this answer?» But Orsino would not admit of this reasoning,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">for he denied that it was possible for any woman to love as he did.</span> 
    <span id="f000134">He said,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">no woman’s heart was big enough to hold so much love,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">and therefore it was unfair to compare the love of any lady for him,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">to his love for Olivia.</span> 
    <span id="f000138">Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">though Viola had the utmost deference for the duke’s opinions,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">she could not help thinking this was not quite true,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">for she thought her heart had full as much love in it as Orsino’s had;</span> 
    <span id="f000142">and she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000143">«Ah,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">but I know,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">my lord.» — «What do you know,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">Cesario?» said Orsino.</span> 
    <span id="f000147">«Too well I know,» replied Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">«what love women may owe to men.</span> 
    <span id="f000149">They are as true of heart as we are.</span> 
    <span id="f000150">My father had a daughter loved a man,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">as I perhaps,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">were I a woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">should love your lordship.» — «And what is her history?» said Orsino.</span> 
    <span id="f000154">«A blank,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">my lord,» replied Viola:</span> 
    <span id="f000156">«she never told her love,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">but let concealment,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">like a worm in the bud,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">feed on her damask cheek.</span> 
    <span id="f000160">She pined in thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">and with a green and yellow melancholy,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">she sat like Patience on a monument,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">smiling at Grief.» The duke inquired if this lady died of her love,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">but to this question Viola returned an evasive answer;</span> 
    <span id="f000165">as probably she had feigned the story,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">to speak words expressive of the secret love and silent grief she suffered for Orsino.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000167">While they were talking,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">a gentleman entered whom the duke had sent to Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000170">«So please you,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">I might not be admitted to the lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">but by her handmaid she returned you this answer:</span> 
    <span id="f000174">Until seven years hence,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">the element itself shall not behold her face;</span> 
    <span id="f000176">but like a cloistress she will walk veiled,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">watering her chamber with her tears for the sad remembrance of her dead brother.» On hearing this,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">the duke exclaimed:</span> 
    <span id="f000179">«O she that has a heart of this fine frame,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">to pay this debt of love to a dead brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">how will she love,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">when the rich golden shaft has touched her heart!» And then he said to Viola:</span> 
    <span id="f000183">«You know,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">Cesario,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">I have told you all the secrets of my heart;</span> 
    <span id="f000186">therefore,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">good youth,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">go to Olivia’s house.</span> 
    <span id="f000189">Be not denied access;</span> 
    <span id="f000190">stand at her doors,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">and tell her,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">there your fixed foot shall grow till you have audience.» — «And if I do speak to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">my lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">what then?» said Viola.</span> 
    <span id="f000195">«O then,» replied Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">«unfold to her the passion of my love.</span> 
    <span id="f000197">Make a long discourse to her of my dear faith.</span> 
    <span id="f000198">It will well become you to act my woes,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">for she will attend more to you than to one of graver aspect.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000200">Away then went Viola;</span> 
    <span id="f000201">but not willingly did she undertake this courtship,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">for she was to woo a lady to become a wife to him she wished to marry:</span> 
    <span id="f000203">but having undertaken the affair,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">she performed it with fidelity;</span> 
    <span id="f000205">and Olivia soon heard that a youth was at her door who insisted upon being admitted to her presence.</span> 
    <span id="f000206">«I told him,» said the servant,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">« that you were sick:</span> 
    <span id="f000208">he said he knew you were,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">and therefore he came to speak with you.</span> 
    <span id="f000210">I told him that you were asleep:</span> 
    <span id="f000211">he seemed to have a foreknowledge of that too,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">and said,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">that therefore he must speak with you.</span> 
    <span id="f000214">What is to be said to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">lady?</span> 
    <span id="f000216">for he seems fortified against all denial,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">and will speak with you,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">whether you will or no.» Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">curious to see who this peremptory messenger might be,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">desired he might be admitted;</span> 
    <span id="f000221">and throwing her veil over her face,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">she said she would once more hear Orsino’s embassy,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">not doubting but that he came from the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">by his importunity.</span> 
    <span id="f000225">Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">entering,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">put on the most manly air she could assume,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">and affecting the fine courtier language of great men’s pages,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">she said to the veiled lady:</span> 
    <span id="f000230">«Most radiant,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">exquisite,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">and matchless beauty,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">I pray you tell me if you are the lady of the house;</span> 
    <span id="f000234">for I should be sorry to cast away my speech upon another;</span> 
    <span id="f000235">for besides that it is excellently well penned,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">I have taken great pains to learn it.» — «Whence come you,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">sir?» said Olivia.</span> 
    <span id="f000238">«I can say little more than I have studied,» replied Viola;</span> 
    <span id="f000239">«and that question is out of my part.» — «Are you a comedian?» said Olivia.</span> 
    <span id="f000240">«No,» replied Viola;</span> 
    <span id="f000241">«and yet I am not that which I play»;</span> 
    <span id="f000242">meaning that she,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">being a woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">feigned herself to be a man.</span> 
    <span id="f000245">And again she asked Olivia if she were the lady of the house.</span> 
    <span id="f000246">Olivia said she was;</span> 
    <span id="f000247">and then Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">having more curiosity to see her rival’s features,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">than haste to deliver her master’s message,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">said:</span> 
    <span id="f000251">«Good madam,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">let me see your face.» With this bold request Olivia was not averse to comply;</span> 
    <span id="f000253">for this haughty beauty,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">whom the duke Orsino had loved so long in vain,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">at first sight conceived a passion for the supposed page,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">the humble Cesario.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000257">When Viola asked to see her face,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">Olivia said:</span> 
    <span id="f000259">«Have you any commission from your lord and master to negotiate with my face?» And then,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">forgetting her determination to go veiled for seven long years,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">she drew aside her veil,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000263">«But I will draw the curtain and show the picture.</span> 
    <span id="f000264">Is it not well done?» Viola replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000265">«It is beauty truly mixed;</span> 
    <span id="f000266">the red and white upon your cheeks is by Nature’s own cunning hand laid on.</span> 
    <span id="f000267">You are the most cruel lady living,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">if you will lead these graces to the grave,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">and leave the world no copy.» — «O,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">sir,» replied Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">«I will not be so cruel.</span> 
    <span id="f000272">The world may have an inventory of my beauty.</span> 
    <span id="f000273">As,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">item,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">two lips,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">indifferent red;</span> 
    <span id="f000277">item,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">two grey eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">with lids to them;</span> 
    <span id="f000280">one neck;</span> 
    <span id="f000281">one chin;</span> 
    <span id="f000282">and so forth.</span> 
    <span id="f000283">Were you sent here to praise me?» Viola replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000284">«I see what you are:</span> 
    <span id="f000285">you are too proud,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">but you are fair.</span> 
    <span id="f000287">My lord and master loves you.</span> 
    <span id="f000288">O such a love could but be recompensed,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">though you were crowned the queen of beauty:</span> 
    <span id="f000290">for Orsino loves you with adoration and with tears,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">with groans that thunder love,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">and sighs of fire.» — «Your lord,» said Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000293">«knows well my mind.</span> 
    <span id="f000294">I cannot love him;</span> 
    <span id="f000295">yet I doubt not he is virtuous;</span> 
    <span id="f000296">I know him to be noble and of high estate,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">of fresh and spotless youth.</span> 
    <span id="f000298">All voices proclaim him learned,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">courteous,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">and valiant;</span> 
    <span id="f000301">yet I cannot love him,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">he might have taken his answer long ago.» — «If I did love you as my master does,» said Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">«I would make me a willow cabin at your gates,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">and call upon your name,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">I would write complaining sonnets on Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">and sing them in the dead of the night;</span> 
    <span id="f000307">your name should sound among the hills,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">and I would make Echo,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">the babbling gossip of the air,</span> 
    <span id="f000310">cry out Olivia.</span> 
    <span id="f000311">O you should not rest between the elements of earth and air,</span> 
    <span id="f000312">but you should pity me.» — «You might do much,» said Olivia:</span> 
    <span id="f000313">«what is your parentage?» Viola replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000314">«Above my fortunes,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">yet my state is well.</span> 
    <span id="f000316">I am a gentleman.» Olivia now reluctantly dismissed Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000318">«Go to your master,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">and tell him,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">I cannot love him.</span> 
    <span id="f000321">Let him send no more,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">unless perchance you come again to tell me how he takes it.» And Viola departed,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">bidding the lady farewell by the name of Fair Cruelty.</span> 
    <span id="f000324">When she was gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">Olivia repeated the words,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">Above my fortunes,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">yet my state is well.</span> 
    <span id="f000328">I am a gentleman.</span> 
    <span id="f000329">And she said aloud:</span> 
    <span id="f000330">«I will be sworn he is;</span> 
    <span id="f000331">his tongue,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">his face,</span> 
    <span id="f000333">his limbs,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">action,</span> 
    <span id="f000335">and spirit,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">plainly show he is a gentleman.» And then she wished Cesario was the duke;</span> 
    <span id="f000337">and perceiving the fast hold he had taken on her affections,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">she blamed herself for her sudden love:</span> 
    <span id="f000339">but the gentle blame which people lay upon their own faults has no deep root;</span> 
    <span id="f000340">and presently the noble lady Olivia so far forgot the inequality between her fortunes and those of this seeming page,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">as well as the maidenly reserve which is the chief ornament of a lady’s character,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">that she resolved to court the love of young Cesario,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">and sent a servant after him with a diamond ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">under the presence that he had left it with her as a present from Orsino.</span> 
    <span id="f000345">She hoped by thus artfully making Cesario a present of the ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">she should give him some intimation of her design;</span> 
    <span id="f000347">and truly it did make Viola suspect;</span> 
    <span id="f000348">for knowing that Orsino had sent no ring by her,</span> 
    <span id="f000349">she began to recollect that Olivia’s looks and manner were expressive of admiration,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">and she presently guessed her master’s mistress had fallen in love with her.</span> 
    <span id="f000351">«Alas,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">«the poor lady might as well love a dream.</span> 
    <span id="f000353">Disguise I see is wicked,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">for it has caused Olivia to breathe as fruitless sighs for me as I do for Orsino.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000355">Viola returned to Orsino’s palace,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">and related to her lord the ill success of the negotiation,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">repeating the command of Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000358">that the duke should trouble her no more.</span> 
    <span id="f000359">Yet still the duke persisted in hoping that the gentle Cesario would in time be able to persuade her to show some pity,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">and therefore he bade him he should go to her again the next day.</span> 
    <span id="f000361">In the meantime,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">to pass away the tedious interval,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">he commanded a song which he loved to be sung;</span> 
    <span id="f000364">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000365">«My good Cesario,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">when I heard that song last night,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">methought it did relieve my passion much.</span> 
    <span id="f000368">Mark it,</span> 
    <span id="f000369">Cesario,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">it is old and plain.</span> 
    <span id="f000371">The spinsters and the knitters when they sit in the sun,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">and the young maids that weave their thread with bone,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">chant this song.</span> 
    <span id="f000374">It is silly,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">yet I love it,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">for it tells of the innocence of love in the old times.»</span></p> 
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000377">Come away, come away, Death</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000378">And in sad cypress let me be laid;</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000379">Fly away, fly away, breath,</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000380">I am slain by a fair cruel maid.</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000381">My shroud of white stuck all with yew, O prepare it!</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000382">My part of death no one so true did share it.</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000383">Not a flower, not a flower sweet</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000384">On my black coffin let there be strewn:</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000385">Not a friend, not a friend greet</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000386">My poor corpse, where my bones shall be thrown</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000387">A thousand thousand sighs to save, lay me O where</span><br/> 
    <span id="f000388">Sad true lover never kind my grave, to weep there!</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000389">Viola did not fail to mark the words of the old song which in such true simplicity described the pangs of unrequited love,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">and she bore testimony in her countenance of feeling what the song expressed.</span> 
    <span id="f000391">Her sad looks were observed by Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">who said to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000393">«My life upon it,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">Cesario,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">though you are so young,</span> 
    <span id="f000396">your eye has looked upon some face that it loves:</span> 
    <span id="f000397">has it not,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">boy?» — «A little,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">with your leave,» replied Viola.</span> 
    <span id="f000400">«And what kind of woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">and of what age is she?» said Orsino.</span> 
    <span id="f000402">« Of your age and of your complexion,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">my lord,» said Viola;</span> 
    <span id="f000404">which made the duke smile to hear this fair young boy loved a woman so much older than himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">and of a man’s dark complexion;</span> 
    <span id="f000406">but Viola secretly meant Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">and not a woman like him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000408">When Viola made her second visit to Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">she found no difficulty in gaining access to her.</span> 
    <span id="f000410">Servants soon discover when their ladies delight to converse with handsome young messengers;</span> 
    <span id="f000411">and the instant Viola arrived,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">the gates were thrown wide open,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">and the duke’s page was shown into Olivia’s apartment with great respect;</span> 
    <span id="f000414">and when Viola told Olivia that she was come once more to plead in her lord’s behalf,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">this lady said:</span> 
    <span id="f000416">«I desired you never to speak of him again;</span> 
    <span id="f000417">but if you would undertake another suit,</span> 
    <span id="f000418">I had rather hear you solicit,</span> 
    <span id="f000419">than music from the spheres.» This was pretty plain speaking,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">but Olivia soon explained herself still more plainly,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">and openly confessed her love;</span> 
    <span id="f000422">and when she saw displeasure with perplexity expressed in Viola’s face,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000424">«O what a deal of scorn looks beautiful in the contempt and anger of his lip!</span> 
    <span id="f000425">Cesario,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">by the roses of the spring,</span> 
    <span id="f000427">by maidhood,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">honour,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">and by truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">I love you so,</span> 
    <span id="f000431">that,</span> 
    <span id="f000432">in spite of your pride,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">I have neither wit nor reason to conceal my passion.» But in vain the lady wooed;</span> 
    <span id="f000434">Viola hastened from her presence,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">threatening never more to come to plead Orsino’s love;</span> 
    <span id="f000436">and all the reply she made to Olivia’s fond solicitation was,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">a declaration of a resolution Never to love any woman.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000438">No sooner had Viola left the lady than a claim was made upon her valour.</span> 
    <span id="f000439">A gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000440">a rejected suitor of Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000441">who had learned how that lady had favoured the duke’s messenger,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">challenged him to fight a duel.</span> 
    <span id="f000443">What should poor Viola do,</span> 
    <span id="f000444">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">though she carried a manlike outside,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">had a true woman’s heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">and feared to look on her own sword?</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000448">When she saw her formidable rival advancing towards her with his sword drawn,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">she began to think of confessing that she was a woman;</span> 
    <span id="f000450">but she was relieved at once from her terror,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">and the shame of such a discovery,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">by a stranger that was passing by,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">who made up to them,</span> 
    <span id="f000454">and as if he had been long known to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000455">and were her dearest friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">said to her opponent:</span> 
    <span id="f000457">«If this young gentleman has done offence,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">I will take the fault on me;</span> 
    <span id="f000459">and if you offend him,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">I will for his sake defy you.» Before Viola had time to thank him for his protection,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">or to inquire the reason of his kind interference,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">her new friend met with an enemy where his bravery was of no use to him;</span> 
    <span id="f000463">for the officers of justice coming up in that instant,</span> 
    <span id="f000464">apprehended the stranger in the duke’s name,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">to answer for an offence he had committed some years before:</span> 
    <span id="f000466">and he said to Viola:</span> 
    <span id="f000467">«This comes with seeking you»:</span> 
    <span id="f000468">and then he asked her for a purse,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000470">«Now my necessity makes me ask for my purse,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">and it grieves me much more for what I cannot do for you,</span> 
    <span id="f000472">than for what befalls myself.</span> 
    <span id="f000473">You stand amazed,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">but be of comfort.» His words did indeed amaze Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">and she protested she knew him not,</span> 
    <span id="f000476">nor had ever received a purse from him;</span> 
    <span id="f000477">but for the kindness he had just shown her,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">she offered him a small sum of money,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">being nearly the whole she possessed.</span> 
    <span id="f000480">And now the stranger spoke severe things,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">charging her with ingratitude and unkindness.</span> 
    <span id="f000482">He said:</span> 
    <span id="f000483">«This youth,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">whom you see here,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">I snatched from the jaws of death,</span> 
    <span id="f000486">and for his sake alone I came to Illyria,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">and have fallen into this danger.» But the officers cared little for hearkening to the complaints of their prisoner,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">and they hurried him off,</span> 
    <span id="f000489">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000490">«What is that to us?» And as he was carried away,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">he called Viola by the name of Sebastian,</span> 
    <span id="f000492">reproaching the supposed Sebastian for disowning his friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">as long as he was within hearing.</span> 
    <span id="f000494">When Viola heard herself called Sebastian,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">though the stranger was taken away too hastily for her to ask an explanation,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">she conjectured that this seeming mystery might arise from her being mistaken for her brother;</span> 
    <span id="f000497">and she began to cherish hopes that it was her brother whose life this man said he had preserved.</span> 
    <span id="f000498">And so indeed it was.</span> 
    <span id="f000499">The stranger,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">whose name was Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">was a sea-captain.</span> 
    <span id="f000502">He had taken Sebastian up into his ship,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">when,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">almost exhausted with fatigue,</span> 
    <span id="f000505">he was floating on the mast to which he had fastened himself in the storm.</span> 
    <span id="f000506">Antonio conceived such a friendship for Sebastian,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">that he resolved to accompany him whithersoever he went;</span> 
    <span id="f000508">and when the youth expressed a curiosity to visit Orsino’s court,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">rather than part from him,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">came to Illyria,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">though he knew,</span> 
    <span id="f000513">if his person should be known there,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">his life would be in danger,</span> 
    <span id="f000515">because in a sea-fight he had once dangerously wounded the duke Orsino’s nephew.</span> 
    <span id="f000516">This was the offence for which he was now made a prisoner.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000517">Antonio and Sebastian had landed together but a few hours before Antonio met Viola.</span> 
    <span id="f000518">He had given his purse to Sebastian,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">desiring him to use it freely if he saw anything he wished to purchase,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">telling him he would wait at the inn,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">while Sebastian went to view the town;</span> 
    <span id="f000522">but Sebastian not returning at the time appointed,</span> 
    <span id="f000523">Antonio had ventured out to look for him,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">and Viola being dressed the same,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">and in face so exactly resembling her brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000526">Antonio drew his sword (as he thought) in defence of the youth he had saved,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">and when Sebastian (as he supposed) disowned him,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">and denied him his own purse,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">no wonder he accused him of ingratitude.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000530">Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000531">when Antonio was gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000532">fearing a second invitation to fight,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">slunk home as fast as she could.</span> 
    <span id="f000534">She had not been long gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000535">when her adversary thought he saw her return;</span> 
    <span id="f000536">but it was her brother Sebastian,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">who happened to arrive at this place,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000539">«Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">sir,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">have I met with you again?</span> 
    <span id="f000542">There’s for you»;</span> 
    <span id="f000543">and struck him a blow.</span> 
    <span id="f000544">Sebastian was no coward;</span> 
    <span id="f000545">he returned the blow with interest,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">and drew his sword.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000547">A lady now put a stop to this duel,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">for Olivia came out of the house,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">and she too mistaking Sebastian for Cesario,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">invited him to come into her house,</span> 
    <span id="f000551">expressing much sorrow at the rude attack he had met with.</span> 
    <span id="f000552">Though Sebastian was as much surprised at the courtesy of this lady as at the rudeness of his unknown foe,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">yet he went very willingly into the house,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">and Olivia was delighted to find Cesario (as she thought him) become more sensible of her attentions;</span> 
    <span id="f000555">for though their features were exactly the same,</span> 
    <span id="f000556">there was none of the contempt and anger to be seen in his face,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">which she had complained of when she told her love to Cesario.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000558">Sebastian did not at all object to the fondness the lady lavished on him.</span> 
    <span id="f000559">He seemed to take it in very good part,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">yet he wondered how it had come to pass,</span> 
    <span id="f000561">and he was rather inclined to think Olivia was not in her right senses;</span> 
    <span id="f000562">but perceiving that she was mistress of a fine house,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">and that she ordered her affairs and seemed to govern her family discreetly,</span> 
    <span id="f000564">and that in all but her sudden love for him she appeared in the full possession of her reason,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">he well approved of the courtship;</span> 
    <span id="f000566">and Olivia finding Cesario in this good humour,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">and fearing he might change his mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000568">proposed that,</span> 
    <span id="f000569">as she had a priest in the house,</span> 
    <span id="f000570">they should be instantly married.</span> 
    <span id="f000571">Sebastian assented to this proposal;</span> 
    <span id="f000572">and when the marriage ceremony was over,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">he left his lady for a short time intending to go and tell his friend Antonio the good fortune that he had met with.</span> 
    <span id="f000574">In the meantime Orsino came to visit Olivia:</span> 
    <span id="f000575">and at the moment he arrived before Olivia’s house,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">the officers of justice brought their prisoner,</span> 
    <span id="f000577">Antonio,</span> 
    <span id="f000578">before the duke.</span> 
    <span id="f000579">Viola was with Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">her master;</span> 
    <span id="f000581">and when Antonio saw Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000582">whom he still imagined to be Sebastian,</span> 
    <span id="f000583">he told the duke in what manner he had rescued this youth from the perils of the sea;</span> 
    <span id="f000584">and after fully relating all the kindness he had really shown to Sebastian,</span> 
    <span id="f000585">he ended his complaint with saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000586">that for three months,</span> 
    <span id="f000587">both day and night,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">this ungrateful youth had been with him.</span> 
    <span id="f000589">But now the lady Olivia coming forth from her house,</span> 
    <span id="f000590">the duke could no longer attend to Antonio’s story;</span> 
    <span id="f000591">and he said:</span> 
    <span id="f000592">«Here comes the countess:</span> 
    <span id="f000593">now Heaven walks on earth!</span> 
    <span id="f000594">but for thee,</span> 
    <span id="f000595">fellow,</span> 
    <span id="f000596">thy words are madness.</span> 
    <span id="f000597">Three months has this youth attended on me»:</span> 
    <span id="f000598">and then he ordered Antonio to be taken aside.</span> 
    <span id="f000599">But Orsino’s heavenly countess soon gave the duke cause to accuse Cesario as much of ingratitude as Antonio had done,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">for all the words he could hear Olivia speak were words of kindness to Cesario:</span> 
    <span id="f000601">and when he found his page had obtained this high place in Olivia’s favour,</span> 
    <span id="f000602">he threatened him with all the terrors of his just revenge;</span> 
    <span id="f000603">and as he was going to depart,</span> 
    <span id="f000604">he called Viola to follow him,</span> 
    <span id="f000605">saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000606">«Come,</span> 
    <span id="f000607">boy,</span> 
    <span id="f000608">with me.</span> 
    <span id="f000609">My thoughts are ripe for mischief.» Though it seemed in his jealous rage he was going to doom Viola to instant death,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">yet her love made her no longer a coward,</span> 
    <span id="f000611">and she said she would most joyfully suffer death to give her master ease.</span> 
    <span id="f000612">But Olivia would not so lose her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000613">and she cried:</span> 
    <span id="f000614">«Where goes my Cesario?’ Viola replied:</span> 
    <span id="f000615">»After him I love more than my life." Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000616">however,</span> 
    <span id="f000617">prevented their departure by loudly proclaiming that Cesario was her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000618">and sent for the priest,</span> 
    <span id="f000619">who declared that not two hours had passed since he had married the lady Olivia to this young man.</span> 
    <span id="f000620">In vain Viola protested she was not married to Olivia;</span> 
    <span id="f000621">the evidence of that lady and the priest made Orsino believe that his page had robbed him of the treasure he prized above his life.</span> 
    <span id="f000622">But thinking that it was past recall,</span> 
    <span id="f000623">he was bidding farewell to his faithless mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000624">and the young dissembler,</span> 
    <span id="f000625">her husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000626">as he called Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000627">warning her never to come in his sight again,</span> 
    <span id="f000628">when (as it seemed to them) a miracle appeared!</span> 
    <span id="f000629">for another Cesario entered,</span> 
    <span id="f000630">and addressed Olivia as his wife.</span> 
    <span id="f000631">This new Cesario was Sebastian,</span> 
    <span id="f000632">the real husband of Olivia;</span> 
    <span id="f000633">and when their wonder had a little ceased at seeing two persons with the same face the same voice,</span> 
    <span id="f000634">and the same habit,</span> 
    <span id="f000635">the brother and sister began to question each other;</span> 
    <span id="f000636">for Viola could scarce be persuaded that her brother was living,</span> 
    <span id="f000637">and Sebastian knew not how to account for the sister he supposed drowned being found in the habit of a young man.</span> 
    <span id="f000638">But Viola presently acknowledged that she was indeed Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000639">and his sister,</span> 
    <span id="f000640">under that disguise.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000641">When all the errors were cleared up which the extreme likeness between this twin brother and sister had occasioned,</span> 
    <span id="f000642">they laughed at the lady Olivia for the pleasant mistake she had made in falling in love with a woman;</span> 
    <span id="f000643">and Olivia showed no dislike to her exchange,</span> 
    <span id="f000644">when she found she had wedded the brother instead of the sister.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000645">The hopes of Orsino were for ever at an end by this marriage of Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000646">and with his hopes,</span> 
    <span id="f000647">all his fruitless love seemed to vanish away,</span> 
    <span id="f000648">and all his thoughts were fixed on the event of his favourite,</span> 
    <span id="f000649">young Cesario,</span> 
    <span id="f000650">being changed into a fair lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000651">He viewed Viola with great attention,</span> 
    <span id="f000652">and he remembered how very handsome he had always thought Cesario was,</span> 
    <span id="f000653">and he concluded she would look very beautiful in a woman’s attire;</span> 
    <span id="f000654">and then he remembered how often she had said she loved him,</span> 
    <span id="f000655">which at the time seemed only the dutiful expressions of a faithful page;</span> 
    <span id="f000656">but now he guessed that something more was meant,</span> 
    <span id="f000657">for many of her pretty sayings,</span> 
    <span id="f000658">which were like riddles to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000659">came now into his mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000660">and he no sooner remembered all these things than he resolved to make Viola his wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000661">and he said to her (he still could not help calling her Cesario and boy):</span> 
    <span id="f000662">«Boy,</span> 
    <span id="f000663">you have said to me a thousand times that you should never love a woman like to me,</span> 
    <span id="f000664">and for the faithful service you have done for me so much beneath your soft and tender breeding,</span> 
    <span id="f000665">and since you have called me master so long,</span> 
    <span id="f000666">you shall now be your master’s mistress,</span> 
    <span id="f000667">and Orsino’s true duchess.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000668">Olivia,</span> 
    <span id="f000669">perceiving Orsino was making over that heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000670">which she had so ungraciously rejected,</span> 
    <span id="f000671">to Viola,</span> 
    <span id="f000672">invited them to enter her house,</span> 
    <span id="f000673">and offered the assistance of the good priest,</span> 
    <span id="f000674">who had married her to Sebastian in the morning,</span> 
    <span id="f000675">to perform the same ceremony in the remaining part of the day for Orsino and Viola.</span> 
    <span id="f000676">Thus the twin brother and sister were both wedded on the same day:</span> 
    <span id="f000677">the storm and shipwreck,</span> 
    <span id="f000678">which had separated them,</span> 
    <span id="f000679">being the means of bringing to pass their high and mighty fortunes.</span> 
    <span id="f000680">Viola was the wife of Orsino,</span> 
    <span id="f000681">the duke of Illyria,</span> 
    <span id="f000682">and Sebastian the husband of the rich and noble countess,</span> 
    <span id="f000683">the lady Olivia.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p016.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track17">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p018.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>