<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p018.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track19">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p020.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Romeo and Juliet</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">The two chief families in Verona were the rich Capulets and the Montagues.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">There had been an old quarrel between these families,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">which was grown to such a height,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">and so deadly was the enmity between them,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">that it extended to the remotest kindred,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">to the followers and retainers of both sides,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">insomuch that a servant of the house of Montague could not meet a servant of the house of Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">nor a Capulet encounter with a Montague by chance,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">but fierce words and sometimes bloodshed ensued;</span> 
    <span id="f000011">and frequent were the brawls from such accidental meetings,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">which disturbed the happy quiet of Verona’s streets.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">Old lord Capulet made a great supper,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">to which many fair ladies and many noble guests were invited.</span> 
    <span id="f000015">All the admired beauties of Verona were present,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">and all comers were made welcome if they were not of the house of Montague.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">At this feast of Capulets,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">Rosaline,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">beloved of Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">son to the old lord Montague,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">was present;</span> 
    <span id="f000022">and though it was dangerous for a Montague to be seen in this assembly,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">yet Benvolio,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">a friend of Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">persuaded the young lord to go to this assembly in the disguise of a mask,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">that he might see his Rosaline,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">and seeing her,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">compare her with some choice beauties of Verona,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">who (he said) would make him think his swan a crow.</span> 
    <span id="f000030">Romeo had small faith in Benvolio’s words;</span> 
    <span id="f000031">nevertheless,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">for the love of Rosaline,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">he was persuaded to go.</span> 
    <span id="f000034">For Romeo was a sincere and passionate lover,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">and one that lost his sleep for love,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">and fled society to be alone,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">thinking on Rosaline,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">who disdained him,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">and never requited his love,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">with the least show of courtesy or affection;</span> 
    <span id="f000041">and Benvolio wished to cure his friend of this love by showing him diversity of ladies and company.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">To this feast of Capulets then young Romeo with Benvolio and their friend Mercutio went masked.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">Old Capulet bid them welcome,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">and told them that ladies who had their toes unplagued with corns would dance with them.</span> 
    <span id="f000045">And the old man was light hearted and merry,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">and said that he had worn a mask when he was young,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">and could have told a whispering tale in a fair lady’s ear.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">And they fell to dancing,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">and Romeo was suddenly struck with the exceeding beauty of a lady who danced there,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">who seemed to him to teach the torches to burn bright,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">and her beauty to show by night like a rich jewel worn by a blackamoor;</span> 
    <span id="f000052">beauty too rich for use,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">too dear for earth!</span> 
    <span id="f000054">like a snowy dove trooping with crows (he said),</span> 
    <span id="f000055">so richly did her beauty and perfections shine above the ladies her companions.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">While he uttered these praises,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">he was overheard by Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">a nephew of lord Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">who knew him by his voice to be Romeo.</span> 
    <span id="f000060">And this Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">being of a fiery and passionate temper,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">could not endure that a Montague should come under cover of a mask,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">to fleer and scorn (as he said) at their solemnities.</span> 
    <span id="f000064">And he stormed and raged exceedingly,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">and would have struck young Romeo dead.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">But his uncle,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">the old lord Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">would not suffer him to do any injury at that time,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">both out of respect to his guests,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">and because Romeo had borne himself like a gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">and all tongues in Verona bragged of him to be a virtuous and well-governed youth.</span> 
    <span id="f000072">Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">forced to be patient against his will,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">restrained himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">but swore that this vile Montague should at another time dearly pay for his intrusion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000076">The dancing being done,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">Romeo watched the place where the lady stood;</span> 
    <span id="f000078">and under favour of his masking habit,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">which might seem to excuse in part the liberty,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">he presumed in the gentlest manner to take her by the hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">calling it a shrine,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">which if he profaned by touching it,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">he was a blushing pilgrim,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">and would kiss it for atonement.</span> 
    <span id="f000085">«Good pilgrim,» answered the lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">«your devotion shows by far too mannerly and too courtly:</span> 
    <span id="f000087">saints have hands,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">which pilgrims may touch,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">but kiss not.» — «Have not saints lips,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and pilgrims too?» said Romeo.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">«Ay,» said the lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">«lips which they must use in prayer.» — «O then,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">my dear saint,» said Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">«hear my prayer,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">and grant it,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">lest I despair.» In such like allusions and loving conceits they were engaged,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">when the lady was called away to her mother.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">And Romeo inquiring who her mother was,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">discovered that the lady whose peerless beauty he was so much struck with,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">was young Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">daughter and heir to the lord Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">the great enemy of the Montagues;</span> 
    <span id="f000103">and that he had unknowingly engaged his heart to his foe.</span> 
    <span id="f000104">This troubled him,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">but it could not dissuade him from loving.</span> 
    <span id="f000106">As little rest had Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">when she found that the gentleman that she had been talking with was Romeo and a Montague,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">for she had been suddenly smit with the same hasty and inconsiderate passion for Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">which he had conceived for her;</span> 
    <span id="f000110">and a prodigious birth of love it seemed to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">that she must love her enemy,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">and that her afflictions should settle there,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">where family considerations should induce her chiefly to hate.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000114">It being midnight,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">Romeo with his companions departed;</span> 
    <span id="f000116">but they soon missed him,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">for,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">unable to stay away from the house where he had left his heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">he leaped the wall of an orchard which was at the back of Juliet’s house.</span> 
    <span id="f000120">Here he had not been long,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">ruminating on his new love,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">when Juliet appeared above at a window,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">through which her exceeding beauty seemed to break like the light of the sun in the east;</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and the moon,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">which shone in the orchard with a faint light,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">appeared to Romeo as if sick and pale with grief at the superior lustre of this new sun.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">And she,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">leaning her cheek upon her hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">he passionately wished himself a glove upon that hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">that he might touch her cheek.</span> 
    <span id="f000131">She all this while thinking herself alone,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">fetched a deep sigh,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">and exclaimed:</span> 
    <span id="f000134">«Ah me!» Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">enraptured to hear her speak,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">said softly,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">and unheard by her:</span> 
    <span id="f000138">«O speak again,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">bright angel,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">for such you appear,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">being over my head,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">like a winged messenger from heaven whom mortals fall back to gaze upon.» She,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">unconscious of being overheard,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">and full of the new passion which that night’s adventure had given birth to,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">called upon her lover by name (whom she supposed absent):</span> 
    <span id="f000146">«O Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">Romeo!» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">«wherefore art thou Romeo?</span> 
    <span id="f000149">Deny thy father,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">and refuse thy name,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">for my sake;</span> 
    <span id="f000152">or if thou wilt not,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">be but my sworn love,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">and I no longer will be a Capulet.» Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">having this encouragement,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">would fain have spoken,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">but he was desirous of hearing more;</span> 
    <span id="f000158">and the lady continued her passionate discourse with herself (as she thought),</span> 
    <span id="f000159">still chiding Romeo for being Romeo and a Montague,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">and wishing him some other name,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">or that he would put away that hated name,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">and for that name which was no part of himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">he should take all herself.</span> 
    <span id="f000164">At this loving word Romeo could no longer refrain,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">but taking up the dialogue as if her words had been addressed to him personally,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">and not merely in fancy,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">he bade her call him Love,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">or by whatever other name she pleased,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">for he was no longer Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">if that name was displeasing to her.</span> 
    <span id="f000171">Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">alarmed to hear a man’s voice in the garden,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">did not at first know who it was,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">that by favour of the night and darkness had thus stumbled upon the discovery of her secret;</span> 
    <span id="f000175">but when he spoke again,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">though her ears had not yet drunk a hundred words of that tongue’s uttering,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">yet so nice is a lover’s hearing,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">that she immediately knew him to be young Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">and she expostulated with him on the danger to which he had exposed himself by climbing the orchard walls,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">for if any of her kinsmen should find him there,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">it would be death to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">being a Montague.</span> 
    <span id="f000183">«Alack,» said Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">«there is more peril in your eye,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">than in twenty of their swords.</span> 
    <span id="f000186">Do you but look kind upon me,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">and I am proof against their enmity.</span> 
    <span id="f000189">Better my life should be ended by their hate,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">than that hated life should be prolonged,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">to live without your love.» — «How came you into this place,» said Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">«and by whose direction?» — «Love directed me,» answered Romeo:</span> 
    <span id="f000193">«I am no pilot,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">yet wert thou as far apart from me,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">as that vast shore which is washed with the farthest sea,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">I should venture for such merchandise.» A crimson blush came over Juliet’s face,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">yet unseen by Romeo by reason of the night,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">when she reflected upon the discovery which she had made,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">yet not meaning to make it,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">of her love to Romeo.</span> 
    <span id="f000201">She would fain have recalled her words,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">but that was impossible:</span> 
    <span id="f000203">fain would she have stood upon form,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">and have kept her lover at a distance,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">as the custom of discreet ladies is,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">to frown and be perverse,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">and give their suitors harsh denials at first;</span> 
    <span id="f000208">to stand off,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">and affect a coyness or indifference,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">where they most love,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">that their lovers may not think them too lightly or too easily won;</span> 
    <span id="f000212">for the difficulty of attainment increases the value of the object.</span> 
    <span id="f000213">But there was no room in her case for denials,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">or puttings off,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">or any of the customary arts of delay and protracted courtship.</span> 
    <span id="f000216">Romeo had heard from her own tongue,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">when she did not dream that he was near her,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">a confession of her love.</span> 
    <span id="f000219">So with an honest frankness,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">which the novelty of her situation excused,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">she confirmed the truth of what he had before heard,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">and addressing him by the name of fair Montague (love can sweeten a sour name),</span> 
    <span id="f000223">she begged him not to impute her easy yielding to levity or an unworthy mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">but that he must lay the fault of it (if it were a fault) upon the accident of the night which had so strangely discovered her thoughts.</span> 
    <span id="f000225">And she added,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">that though her behaviour to him might not be sufficiently prudent,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">measured by the custom of her sex,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">yet that she would prove more true than many whose prudence was dissembling,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">and their modesty artificial cunning.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000230">Romeo was beginning to call the heavens to witness,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">that nothing was farther from his thoughts than to impute a shadow of dishonour to such an honoured lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">when she stopped him,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">begging him not to swear;</span> 
    <span id="f000234">for although she joyed in him,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">yet she had no joy of that night’s contract:</span> 
    <span id="f000236">it was too rash,</span> 
    <span id="f000237">too unadvised,</span> 
    <span id="f000238">too sudden.</span> 
    <span id="f000239">But he being urgent with her to exchange a vow of love with him that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">she said that she already had given him hers before he requested it;</span> 
    <span id="f000241">meaning,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">when he overheard her confession;</span> 
    <span id="f000243">but she would retract what she then bestowed,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">for the pleasure of giving it again,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">for her bounty was as infinite as the sea,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">and her love as deep.</span> 
    <span id="f000247">From this loving conference she was called away by her nurse,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">who slept with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">and thought it time for her to be in bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">for it was near to daybreak;</span> 
    <span id="f000251">but hastily returning,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">she said three or four words more to Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">the purport of which was,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">that if his love was indeed honourable,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">and his purpose marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000256">she would send a messenger to him to-morrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">to appoint a time for their marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">when she would lay all her fortunes at his feet,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">and follow him as her lord through the world.</span> 
    <span id="f000260">While they were settling this point,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">Juliet was repeatedly called for by her nurse,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">and went in and returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">and went and returned again,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">for she seemed as jealous of Romeo going from her,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">as a young girl of her bird,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">which she will let hop a little from her hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000267">and pluck it back with a silken thread;</span> 
    <span id="f000268">and Romeo was as loath to part as she;</span> 
    <span id="f000269">for the sweetest music to lovers is the sound of each other’s tongues at night.</span> 
    <span id="f000270">But at last they parted,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">wishing mutually sweet sleep and rest for that night.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000272">The day was breaking when they parted,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">and Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">who was too full of thoughts of his mistress and that blessed meeting to allow him to sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">instead of going home,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">bent his course to a monastery hard by,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">to find friar Lawrence.</span> 
    <span id="f000278">The good friar was already up at his devotions,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">but seeing young Romeo abroad so early,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">he conjectured rightly that he had not been abed that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">but that some distemper of youthful affection had kept him waking.</span> 
    <span id="f000282">He was right in imputing the cause of Romeo’s wakefulness to love,</span> 
    <span id="f000283">but he made a wrong guess at the object,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">for he thought that his love for Rosaline had kept him waking.</span> 
    <span id="f000285">But when Romeo revealed his new passion for Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">and requested the assistance of the friar to marry them that day,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">the holy man lifted up his eyes and hands in a sort of wonder at the sudden change in Romeo’s affections,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">for he had been privy to all Romeo’s love for Rosaline,</span> 
    <span id="f000289">and his many complaints of her disdain:</span> 
    <span id="f000290">and he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">that young men’s love lay not truly in their hearts,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">but in their eyes.</span> 
    <span id="f000293">But Romeo replying,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">that he himself had often chidden him for doting on Rosaline,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">who could not love him again,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">whereas Juliet both loved and was beloved by him,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">the friar assented in some measure to his reasons;</span> 
    <span id="f000298">and thinking that a matrimonial alliance between young Juliet and Romeo might happily be the means of making up the long breach between the Capulets and the Montagues;</span> 
    <span id="f000299">which no one more lamented than this good friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000300">who was a friend to both the families and had often interposed his mediation to make up the quarrel without effect;</span> 
    <span id="f000301">partly moved by policy,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">and partly by his fondness for young Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">to whom he could deny nothing,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">the old man consented to join their hands in marriage.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000305">Now was Romeo blessed indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000306">and Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000307">who knew his intent from a messenger which she had despatched according to promise,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">did not fail to be early at the cell of friar Lawrence,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">where their hands were joined in holy marriage;</span> 
    <span id="f000310">the good friar praying the heavens to smile upon that act,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">and in the union of this young Montague and young Capulet to bury the old strife and long dissensions of their families.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000312">The ceremony being over,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">Juliet hastened home,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">where she stayed impatient for the coming of night,</span> 
    <span id="f000315">at which time Romeo promised to come and meet her in the orchard,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">where they had met the night before;</span> 
    <span id="f000317">and the time between seemed as tedious to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000318">as the night before some great festival seems to an impatient child,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">that has got new finery which it may not put on till the morning.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000320">That same day,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">about noon,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">Romeo’s friends,</span> 
    <span id="f000323">Benvolio and Mercutio,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">walking through the streets of Verona,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">were met by a party of the Capulets with the impetuous Tybalt at their head.</span> 
    <span id="f000326">This was the same angry Tybalt who would have fought with Romeo at old lord Capulet’s feast.</span> 
    <span id="f000327">He,</span> 
    <span id="f000328">seeing Mercutio,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">accused him bluntly of associating with Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">a Montague.</span> 
    <span id="f000331">Mercutio,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">who had as much fire and youthful blood in him as Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000333">replied to this accusation with some sharpness;</span> 
    <span id="f000334">and in spite of all Benvolio could say to moderate their wrath,</span> 
    <span id="f000335">a quarrel was beginning,</span> 
    <span id="f000336">when Romeo himself passing that way,</span> 
    <span id="f000337">the fierce Tybalt turned from Mercutio to Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">and gave him the disgraceful appellation of villain.</span> 
    <span id="f000339">Romeo wished to avoid a quarrel with Tybalt above all men,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">because he was the kinsman of Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">and much beloved by her;</span> 
    <span id="f000342">besides,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">this young Montague had never thoroughly entered into the family quarrel,</span> 
    <span id="f000344">being by nature wise and gentle,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">and the name of a Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">which was his dear lady’s name,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">was now rather a charm to allay resentment,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">than a watchword to excite fury.</span> 
    <span id="f000349">So he tried to reason with Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">whom he saluted mildly by the name of good Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">as if he,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">though a Montague,</span> 
    <span id="f000353">had some secret pleasure in uttering that name:</span> 
    <span id="f000354">but Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000355">who hated all Montagues as he hated hell,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">would hear no reason,</span> 
    <span id="f000357">but drew his weapon;</span> 
    <span id="f000358">and Mercutio,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">who knew not of Romeo’s secret motive for desiring peace with Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000360">but looked upon his present forbearance as a sort of calm dishonourable submission,</span> 
    <span id="f000361">with many disdainful words provoked Tybalt to the prosecution of his first quarrel with him;</span> 
    <span id="f000362">and Tybalt and Mercutio fought,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">till Mercutio fell,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">receiving his death’s wound while Romeo and Benvolio were vainly endeavouring to part the combatants.</span> 
    <span id="f000365">Mercutio being dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">Romeo kept his temper no longer,</span> 
    <span id="f000367">but returned the scornful appellation of villain which Tybalt had given him;</span> 
    <span id="f000368">and they fought till Tybalt was slain by Romeo.</span> 
    <span id="f000369">This deadly broil falling out in the midst of Verona at noonday,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">the news of it quickly brought a crowd of citizens to the spot,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">and among them the old lords Capulet and Montague,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">with their wives;</span> 
    <span id="f000373">and soon after arrived the prince himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">who being related to Mercutio,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">whom Tybalt had slain,</span> 
    <span id="f000376">and having had the peace of his government often disturbed by these brawls of Montagues and Capulets,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">came determined to put the law in strictest force against those who should be found to be offenders.</span> 
    <span id="f000378">Benvolio,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">who had been eyewitness to the fray,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">was commanded by the prince to relate the origin of it,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">which he did,</span> 
    <span id="f000382">keeping as near the truth as he could without injury to Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">softening and excusing the part which his friends took in it.</span> 
    <span id="f000384">Lady Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000385">whose extreme grief for the loss of her kinsman Tybalt made her keep no bounds in her revenge,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">exhorted the prince to do strict justice upon his murderer,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">and to pay no attention to Benvolio’s representation,</span> 
    <span id="f000388">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000389">being Romeo’s friend and a Montague,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">spoke partially.</span> 
    <span id="f000391">Thus she pleaded against her new son-in-law,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">but she knew not yet that he was her son-in-law and Juliet’s husband.</span> 
    <span id="f000393">On the other hand was to be seen Lady Montague pleading for her child’s life,</span> 
    <span id="f000394">and arguing with some justice that Romeo had done nothing worthy of punishment in taking the life of Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">which was already forfeited to the law by his having slain Mercutio.</span> 
    <span id="f000396">The prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">unmoved by the passionate exclamations of these women,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">on a careful examination of the facts,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">pronounced his sentence,</span> 
    <span id="f000400">and by that sentence Romeo was banished from Verona.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000401">Heavy news to young Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000402">who had been but a few hours a bride,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">and now by this decree seemed everlastingly divorced!</span> 
    <span id="f000404">When the tidings reached her,</span> 
    <span id="f000405">she at first gave way to rage against Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">who had slain her dear cousin:</span> 
    <span id="f000407">she called him a beautiful tyrant,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">a fiend angelical,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">a ravenous dove,</span> 
    <span id="f000410">a lamb with a wolf’s nature,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">a serpent-heart hid with a flowering face,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">and other like contradictory names,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">which denoted the struggles in her mind between her love and her resentment:</span> 
    <span id="f000414">but in the end love got the mastery,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">and the tears which she shed for grief that Romeo had slain her cousin,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">turned to drops of joy that her husband lived whom Tybalt would have slain.</span> 
    <span id="f000417">Then came fresh tears,</span> 
    <span id="f000418">and they were altogether of grief for Romeo’s banishment.</span> 
    <span id="f000419">That word was more terrible to her than the death of many Tybalts.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000420">Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">after the fray,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">had taken refuge in friar Lawrence’s cell,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">where he was first made acquainted with the prince’s sentence,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">which seemed to him far more terrible than death.</span> 
    <span id="f000425">To him it appeared there was no world out of Verona’s walls,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">no living out of the sight of Juliet.</span> 
    <span id="f000427">Heaven was there where Juliet lived,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">and all beyond was purgatory,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">torture,</span> 
    <span id="f000430">hell.</span> 
    <span id="f000431">The good friar would have applied the consolation of philosophy to his griefs:</span> 
    <span id="f000432">but this frantic young man would hear of none,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">but like a madman he tore his hair,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">and threw himself all along upon the ground,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">as he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000436">to take the measure of his grave.</span> 
    <span id="f000437">From this unseemly state he was roused by a message from his dear lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000438">which a little revived him;</span> 
    <span id="f000439">and then the friar took the advantage to expostulate with him on the unmanly weakness which he had shown.</span> 
    <span id="f000440">He had slain Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000441">but would he also slay himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">slay his dear lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000443">who lived but in his life?</span> 
    <span id="f000444">The noble form of man,</span> 
    <span id="f000445">he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">was but a shape of wax,</span> 
    <span id="f000447">when it wanted the courage which should keep it firm.</span> 
    <span id="f000448">The law had been lenient to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000449">that instead of death,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">which he had incurred,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">had pronounced by the prince’s mouth only banishment.</span> 
    <span id="f000452">He had slain Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">but Tybalt would have slain him:</span> 
    <span id="f000454">there was a sort of happiness in that.</span> 
    <span id="f000455">Juliet was alive,</span> 
    <span id="f000456">and (beyond all hope) had become his dear wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000457">therein he was most happy.</span> 
    <span id="f000458">All these blessings,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">as the friar made them out to be,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">did Romeo put from him like a sullen misbehaved wench.</span> 
    <span id="f000461">And the friar bade him beware,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">for such as despaired,</span> 
    <span id="f000463">(he said) died miserable.</span> 
    <span id="f000464">Then when Romeo was a little calmed,</span> 
    <span id="f000465">he counselled him that he should go that night and secretly take his leave of Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">and thence proceed straightways to Mantua,</span> 
    <span id="f000467">at which place he should sojourn,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">till the friar found fit occasion to publish his marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000469">which might be a joyful means of reconciling their families;</span> 
    <span id="f000470">and then he did not doubt but the prince would be moved to pardon him,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">and he would return with twenty times more joy than he went forth with grief.</span> 
    <span id="f000472">Romeo was convinced by these wise counsels of the friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">and took his leave to go and seek his lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">proposing to stay with her that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">and by daybreak pursue his journey alone to Mantua;</span> 
    <span id="f000476">to which place the good friar promised to send him letters from time to time,</span> 
    <span id="f000477">acquainting him with the state of affairs at home.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000478">That night Romeo passed with his dear wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">gaining secret admission to her chamber,</span> 
    <span id="f000480">from the orchard in which he had heard her confession of love the night before.</span> 
    <span id="f000481">That had been a night of unmixed joy and rapture;</span> 
    <span id="f000482">but the pleasures of this night,</span> 
    <span id="f000483">and the delight which these lovers took in each other’s society,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">were sadly allayed with the prospect of parting,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">and the fatal adventures of the past day.</span> 
    <span id="f000486">The unwelcome daybreak seemed to come too soon,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">and when Juliet heard the morning song of the lark,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">she would have persuaded herself that it was the nightingale,</span> 
    <span id="f000489">which sings by night,</span> 
    <span id="f000490">but it was too truly the lark which sang,</span> 
    <span id="f000491">and a discordant and unpleasing note it seemed to her;</span> 
    <span id="f000492">and the streaks of day in the east too certainly pointed out that it was time for these lovers to part.</span> 
    <span id="f000493">Romeo took his leave of his dear wife with a heavy heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000494">promising to write to her from Mantua every hour in the day;</span> 
    <span id="f000495">and when he had descended from her chamber-window,</span> 
    <span id="f000496">as he stood below her on the ground,</span> 
    <span id="f000497">in that sad foreboding state of mind in which she was,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">he appeared to her eyes as one dead in the bottom of a tomb.</span> 
    <span id="f000499">Romeo’s mind misgave him in like manner:</span> 
    <span id="f000500">but now he was forced hastily to depart,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">for it was death for him to be found within the walls of Verona after daybreak.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000502">This was but the beginning of the tragedy of this pair of star-crossed lovers.</span> 
    <span id="f000503">Romeo had not been gone many days,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">before the old lord Capulet proposed a match for Juliet.</span> 
    <span id="f000505">The husband he had chosen for her,</span> 
    <span id="f000506">not dreaming that she was married already,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">was count Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000508">a gallant,</span> 
    <span id="f000509">young,</span> 
    <span id="f000510">and noble gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">no unworthy suitor to the young Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">if she had never seen Romeo.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000513">The terrified Juliet was in a sad perplexity at her father’s offer.</span> 
    <span id="f000514">She pleaded her youth unsuitable to marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000515">the recent death of Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000516">which had left her spirits too weak to meet a husband with any face of joy,</span> 
    <span id="f000517">and how indecorous it would show for the family of the Capulets to be celebrating a nuptial feast,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">when his funeral solemnities were hardly over:</span> 
    <span id="f000519">she pleaded every reason against the match,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">but the true one,</span> 
    <span id="f000521">namely,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">that she was married already.</span> 
    <span id="f000523">But lord Capulet was deaf to all her excuses,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">and in a peremptory manner ordered her to get ready,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">for by the following Thursday she should be married to Paris:</span> 
    <span id="f000526">and having found her a husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">rich,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">young,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">and noble,</span> 
    <span id="f000530">such as the proudest maid in Verona might joyfully accept,</span> 
    <span id="f000531">he could not bear that out of an affected coyness,</span> 
    <span id="f000532">as he construed her denial,</span> 
    <span id="f000533">she should oppose obstacles to her own good fortune.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000534">In this extremity Juliet applied to the friendly friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000535">always her counsellor in distress,</span> 
    <span id="f000536">and he asking her if she had resolution to undertake a desperate remedy,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">and she answering that she would go into the grave alive rather than marry Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">her own dear husband living;</span> 
    <span id="f000539">he directed her to go home,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">and appear merry,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">and give her consent to marry Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">according to her father’s desire,</span> 
    <span id="f000543">and on the next night,</span> 
    <span id="f000544">which was the night before the marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">to drink off the contents of a phial which he then gave her,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">the effect of which would be that for two-and-forty hours after drinking it she should appear cold and lifeless;</span> 
    <span id="f000547">and when the bridegroom came to fetch her in the morning,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">he would find her to appearance dead;</span> 
    <span id="f000549">that then she would be borne,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">as the manner in that country was,</span> 
    <span id="f000551">uncovered on a bier,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">to be buried in the family vault;</span> 
    <span id="f000553">that if she could put off womanish fear,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">and consent to this terrible trial,</span> 
    <span id="f000555">in forty-two hours after swallowing the liquid (such was its certain operation) she would be sure to awake,</span> 
    <span id="f000556">as from a dream;</span> 
    <span id="f000557">and before she should awake,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">he would let her husband know their drift,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">and he should come in the night,</span> 
    <span id="f000560">and bear her thence to Mantua.</span> 
    <span id="f000561">Love,</span> 
    <span id="f000562">and the dread of marrying Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">gave young Juliet strength to undertake this horrible adventure;</span> 
    <span id="f000564">and she took the phial of the friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">promising to observe his directions.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000566">Going from the monastery,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">she met the young count Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000568">and modestly dissembling,</span> 
    <span id="f000569">promised to become his bride.</span> 
    <span id="f000570">This was joyful news to the lord Capulet and his wife.</span> 
    <span id="f000571">It seemed to put youth into the old man;</span> 
    <span id="f000572">and Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">who had displeased him exceedingly,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">by her refusal of the count,</span> 
    <span id="f000575">was his darling again,</span> 
    <span id="f000576">now she promised to be obedient.</span> 
    <span id="f000577">All things in the house were in a bustle against the approaching nuptials.</span> 
    <span id="f000578">No cost was spared to prepare such festival rejoicings as Verona had never before witnessed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000579">On the Wednesday night Juliet drank off the potion.</span> 
    <span id="f000580">She had many misgivings lest the friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000581">to avoid the blame which might be imputed to him for marrying her to Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000582">had given her poison;</span> 
    <span id="f000583">but then he was always known for a holy man:</span> 
    <span id="f000584">then lest she should awake before the time that Romeo was to come for her;</span> 
    <span id="f000585">whether the terror of the place,</span> 
    <span id="f000586">a vault of dead Capulets’ bones,</span> 
    <span id="f000587">and where Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">all bloody,</span> 
    <span id="f000589">lay festering in his shroud,</span> 
    <span id="f000590">would not be enough to drive her distracted:</span> 
    <span id="f000591">again she thought of all the stories she had heard of spirits haunting the places where their bodies were bestowed.</span> 
    <span id="f000592">But then her love for Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000593">and her aversion for Paris returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000594">and she desperately swallowed the draught and became insensible.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000595">When young Paris came early in the morning with music to awaken his bride,</span> 
    <span id="f000596">instead of a living Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000597">her chamber presented the dreary spectacle of a lifeless corset What death to his hopes!</span> 
    <span id="f000598">What confusion then reigned through the whole house!</span> 
    <span id="f000599">Poor Paris lamenting his bride,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">whom most detestable death had beguiled him of,</span> 
    <span id="f000601">had divorced from him even before their hands were joined.</span> 
    <span id="f000602">But still more piteous it was to hear the mournings of the old lord and lady Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000603">who having but this one,</span> 
    <span id="f000604">one poor loving child to rejoice and solace in,</span> 
    <span id="f000605">cruel death had snatched her from their sight,</span> 
    <span id="f000606">just as these careful parents were on the point of seeing her advanced (as they thought) by a promising and advantageous match.</span> 
    <span id="f000607">Now all things that were ordained for the festival were turned from their properties to do the office of a black funeral.</span> 
    <span id="f000608">The wedding cheer served for a sad burial feast,</span> 
    <span id="f000609">the bridal hymns were changed for sullen dirges,</span> 
    <span id="f000610">the sprightly instruments to melancholy bells,</span> 
    <span id="f000611">and the flowers that should have been strewed in the bride’s path,</span> 
    <span id="f000612">now served but to strew her corset Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000613">instead of a priest to marry her,</span> 
    <span id="f000614">a priest was needed to bury her;</span> 
    <span id="f000615">and she was borne to church indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000616">not to augment the cheerful hopes of the living,</span> 
    <span id="f000617">but to swell the dreary numbers of the dead.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000618">Bad news,</span> 
    <span id="f000619">which always travels faster than good,</span> 
    <span id="f000620">now brought the dismal story of his Juliet’s death to Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000621">at Mantua,</span> 
    <span id="f000622">before the messenger could arrive,</span> 
    <span id="f000623">who was sent from friar Lawrence to apprise him that these were mock funerals only,</span> 
    <span id="f000624">and but the shadow and representation of death,</span> 
    <span id="f000625">and that his dear lady lay in the tomb but for a short while,</span> 
    <span id="f000626">expecting when Romeo would come to release her from that dreary mansion.</span> 
    <span id="f000627">Just before,</span> 
    <span id="f000628">Romeo had been unusually joyful and light-hearted.</span> 
    <span id="f000629">He had dreamed in the night that he was dead (a strange dream,</span> 
    <span id="f000630">that gave a dead man leave to think),</span> 
    <span id="f000631">and that his lady came and found him dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000632">and breathed such life with kisses in his lips,</span> 
    <span id="f000633">that he revived,</span> 
    <span id="f000634">and was an emperor!</span> 
    <span id="f000635">And now that a messenger came from Verona,</span> 
    <span id="f000636">he thought surely it was to confirm some good news which his dreams had presaged.</span> 
    <span id="f000637">But when the contrary to this flattering vision appeared,</span> 
    <span id="f000638">and that it was his lady who was dead in truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000639">whom he could not revive by any kisses,</span> 
    <span id="f000640">he ordered horses to be got ready,</span> 
    <span id="f000641">for he determined that night to visit Verona,</span> 
    <span id="f000642">and to see his lady in her tomb.</span> 
    <span id="f000643">And as mischief is swift to enter into the thoughts of desperate men,</span> 
    <span id="f000644">he called to mind a poor apothecary,</span> 
    <span id="f000645">whose shop in Mantua he had lately passed,</span> 
    <span id="f000646">and from the beggarly appearance of the man,</span> 
    <span id="f000647">who seemed famished,</span> 
    <span id="f000648">and the wretched show in his show of empty boxes ranged on dirty shelves,</span> 
    <span id="f000649">and other tokens of extreme wretchedness,</span> 
    <span id="f000650">he had said at the time (perhaps having some misgivings that his own disastrous life might haply meet with a conclusion so desperate),</span> 
    <span id="f000651">«If a man were to need poison,</span> 
    <span id="f000652">which by the law of Mantua it is death to sell,</span> 
    <span id="f000653">here lives a poor wretch who would sell it him.» These words of his now came into his mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000654">and he sought out the apothecary,</span> 
    <span id="f000655">who after some pretended scruples,</span> 
    <span id="f000656">Romeo offering him gold,</span> 
    <span id="f000657">which his poverty could not resist,</span> 
    <span id="f000658">sold him a poison,</span> 
    <span id="f000659">which,</span> 
    <span id="f000660">if he swallowed,</span> 
    <span id="f000661">he told him,</span> 
    <span id="f000662">if he had the strength of twenty men,</span> 
    <span id="f000663">would quickly despatch him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000664">With this poison he set out for Verona,</span> 
    <span id="f000665">to have a sight of his dear lady in her tomb,</span> 
    <span id="f000666">meaning,</span> 
    <span id="f000667">when he had satisfied his sight,</span> 
    <span id="f000668">to swallow the poison,</span> 
    <span id="f000669">and be buried by her side.</span> 
    <span id="f000670">He reached Verona at midnight,</span> 
    <span id="f000671">and found the churchyard,</span> 
    <span id="f000672">in the midst of which was situated the ancient tomb of the Capulets.</span> 
    <span id="f000673">He had provided a light,</span> 
    <span id="f000674">and a spade,</span> 
    <span id="f000675">and wrenching iron,</span> 
    <span id="f000676">and was proceeding to break open the monument,</span> 
    <span id="f000677">when he was interrupted by a voice,</span> 
    <span id="f000678">which by the name of vile Montague,</span> 
    <span id="f000679">bade him desist from his unlawful business.</span> 
    <span id="f000680">It was the young count Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000681">who had come to the tomb of Juliet at that unseasonable time of night,</span> 
    <span id="f000682">to strew flowers and to weep over the grave of her that should have been his bride.</span> 
    <span id="f000683">He knew not what an interest Romeo had in the dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000684">but knowing him to be a Montague,</span> 
    <span id="f000685">and (as he supposed) a sworn foe to all the Capulets,</span> 
    <span id="f000686">he judged that he was come by night to do some villanous shame to the dead bodies;</span> 
    <span id="f000687">therefore in an angry tone he bade him desist;</span> 
    <span id="f000688">and as a criminal,</span> 
    <span id="f000689">condemned by the laws of Verona to die if he were found within the walls of the city,</span> 
    <span id="f000690">he would have apprehended him.</span> 
    <span id="f000691">Romeo urged Paris to leave him,</span> 
    <span id="f000692">and warned him by the fate of Tybalt,</span> 
    <span id="f000693">who lay buried there,</span> 
    <span id="f000694">not to provoke his anger,</span> 
    <span id="f000695">or draw down another sin upon his head,</span> 
    <span id="f000696">by forcing him to kill him.</span> 
    <span id="f000697">But the count in scorn refused his warning,</span> 
    <span id="f000698">and laid hands on him as a felon,</span> 
    <span id="f000699">which Romeo resisting,</span> 
    <span id="f000700">they fought,</span> 
    <span id="f000701">and Paris fell.</span> 
    <span id="f000702">When Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000703">by the help of a light,</span> 
    <span id="f000704">came to see who it was that he had slain,</span> 
    <span id="f000705">that it was Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000706">who (he learned in his way from Mantua) should have married Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000707">he took the dead youth by the hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000708">as one whom misfortune had made a companion,</span> 
    <span id="f000709">and said that he would bury him in a triumphal grave,</span> 
    <span id="f000710">meaning in Juliet’s grave,</span> 
    <span id="f000711">which he now opened:</span> 
    <span id="f000712">and there lay his lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000713">as one whom death had no power upon to change a feature or complexion,</span> 
    <span id="f000714">in her matchless beauty;</span> 
    <span id="f000715">or as if Death were amorous,</span> 
    <span id="f000716">and the lean abhorred monster kept her there for his delight;</span> 
    <span id="f000717">for she lay yet fresh and blooming,</span> 
    <span id="f000718">as she had fallen to sleep when she swallowed that benumbing potion;</span> 
    <span id="f000719">and near her lay Tybalt in his bloody shroud,</span> 
    <span id="f000720">whom Romeo seeing,</span> 
    <span id="f000721">begged pardon of his lifeless corse,</span> 
    <span id="f000722">and for Juliet’s sake called him cousin,</span> 
    <span id="f000723">and said that he was about to do him a favour by putting his enemy to death.</span> 
    <span id="f000724">Here Romeo took his last leave of his lady’s lips,</span> 
    <span id="f000725">kissing them;</span> 
    <span id="f000726">and here he shook the burden of his cross stars from his weary body,</span> 
    <span id="f000727">swallowing that poison which the apothecary had sold him,</span> 
    <span id="f000728">whose operation was fatal and real,</span> 
    <span id="f000729">not like that dissembling potion which Juliet had swallowed,</span> 
    <span id="f000730">the effect of which was now nearly expiring,</span> 
    <span id="f000731">and she about to awake to complain that Romeo had not kept his time,</span> 
    <span id="f000732">or that he had come too soon.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000733">For now the hour was arrived at which the friar had promised that she should awake;</span> 
    <span id="f000734">and he,</span> 
    <span id="f000735">having learned that his letters which he had sent to Mantua,</span> 
    <span id="f000736">by some unlucky detention of the messenger,</span> 
    <span id="f000737">had never reached Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000738">came himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000739">provided with the pickaxe and lantern,</span> 
    <span id="f000740">to deliver the lady from her confinement;</span> 
    <span id="f000741">but he was surprised to find a light already burning in the Capulets’ monument,</span> 
    <span id="f000742">and to see swords and blood near it,</span> 
    <span id="f000743">and Romeo and Paris lying breathless by the monument.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000744">Before he could entertain a conjecture,</span> 
    <span id="f000745">to imagine how these fatal accidents had fallen out,</span> 
    <span id="f000746">Juliet awoke out of her trance,</span> 
    <span id="f000747">and seeing the friar near her,</span> 
    <span id="f000748">she remembered the place where she was,</span> 
    <span id="f000749">and the occasion of her being there,</span> 
    <span id="f000750">and asked for Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000751">but the friar,</span> 
    <span id="f000752">hearing a noise,</span> 
    <span id="f000753">bade her come out of that place of death,</span> 
    <span id="f000754">and of unnatural sleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000755">for a greater power than they could contradict had thwarted their intents;</span> 
    <span id="f000756">and being frightened by the noise of people coming,</span> 
    <span id="f000757">he fled:</span> 
    <span id="f000758">but when Juliet saw the cup closed in her true love’s hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000759">she guessed that poison had been the cause of his end,</span> 
    <span id="f000760">and she would have swallowed the dregs if any had been left,</span> 
    <span id="f000761">and she kissed his still warm lips to try if any poison yet did hang upon them,</span> 
    <span id="f000762">then hearing a nearer noise of people coming,</span> 
    <span id="f000763">she quickly unsheathed a dagger which she wore,</span> 
    <span id="f000764">and stabbing herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000765">died by her true Romeo’s side.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000766">The watch by this time had come up to the place.</span> 
    <span id="f000767">A page belonging to count Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000768">who had witnessed the fight between his master and Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000769">had given the alarm,</span> 
    <span id="f000770">which had spread among the citizens,</span> 
    <span id="f000771">who went up and down the streets of Verona confusedly exclaiming,</span> 
    <span id="f000772">A Paris!</span> 
    <span id="f000773">a Romeo!</span> 
    <span id="f000774">a Juliet!</span> 
    <span id="f000775">as the rumour had imperfectly reached them,</span> 
    <span id="f000776">till the uproar brought lord Montague and lord Capulet out of their beds,</span> 
    <span id="f000777">with the prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000778">to inquire into the causes of the disturbance.</span> 
    <span id="f000779">The friar had been apprehended by some of the watch,</span> 
    <span id="f000780">coming from the churchyard,</span> 
    <span id="f000781">trembling,</span> 
    <span id="f000782">sighing,</span> 
    <span id="f000783">and weeping,</span> 
    <span id="f000784">in a suspicious manner.</span> 
    <span id="f000785">A great multitude being assembled at the Capulets’ monument,</span> 
    <span id="f000786">the friar was demanded by the prince to deliver what he knew of these strange and disastrous accidents.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000787">And there,</span> 
    <span id="f000788">in the presence of the old lords Montague and Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000789">he faithfully related the story of their children’s fatal love,</span> 
    <span id="f000790">the part he took in promoting their marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000791">in the hope in that union to end the long quarrels between their families:</span> 
    <span id="f000792">how Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000793">there dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000794">was husband to Juliet;</span> 
    <span id="f000795">and Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000796">there dead,</span> 
    <span id="f000797">was Romeo’s faithful wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000798">how before he could kind a ht opportunity to divulge their marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000799">another match was projected for Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000800">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000801">to avoid the crime of a second marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000802">swallowed the sleeping draught (as he advised),</span> 
    <span id="f000803">and all thought her dead;</span> 
    <span id="f000804">how meantime he wrote to Romeo,</span> 
    <span id="f000805">to come and take her thence when the force of the potion should cease,</span> 
    <span id="f000806">and by what unfortunate miscarriage of the messenger the letters never reached Romeo:</span> 
    <span id="f000807">further than this the friar could not follow the story,</span> 
    <span id="f000808">nor knew more than that coming himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000809">to deliver Juliet from that place of death,</span> 
    <span id="f000810">he found the count Paris and Romeo slain.</span> 
    <span id="f000811">The remainder of the transactions was supplied by the narration of the page who had seen Paris and Romeo fight,</span> 
    <span id="f000812">and by the servant who came with Romeo from Verona,</span> 
    <span id="f000813">to whom this faithful lover had given letters to be delivered to his father in the event of his death,</span> 
    <span id="f000814">which made good the friar’s words,</span> 
    <span id="f000815">confessing his marriage with Juliet,</span> 
    <span id="f000816">imploring the forgiveness of his parents,</span> 
    <span id="f000817">acknowledging the buying of the poison of the poor apothecary,</span> 
    <span id="f000818">and his intent in coming to the monument,</span> 
    <span id="f000819">to die,</span> 
    <span id="f000820">and lie with Juliet.</span> 
    <span id="f000821">All these circumstances agreed together to clear the friar from any hand he could be supposed to have in these complicated slaughters,</span> 
    <span id="f000822">further than as the unintended consequences of his own well meant,</span> 
    <span id="f000823">yet too artificial and subtle contrivances.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000824">And the prince,</span> 
    <span id="f000825">turning to these old lords,</span> 
    <span id="f000826">Montague and Capulet,</span> 
    <span id="f000827">rebuked them for their brutal and irrational enmities,</span> 
    <span id="f000828">and showed them what a scourge Heaven had laid upon such offences,</span> 
    <span id="f000829">that it had found means even through the love of their children to punish their unnatural hate.</span> 
    <span id="f000830">And these old rivals,</span> 
    <span id="f000831">no longer enemies,</span> 
    <span id="f000832">agreed to bury their long strife in their children’s graves;</span> 
    <span id="f000833">and lord Capulet requested lord Montague to give him his hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000834">calling him by the name of brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000835">as if in acknowledgment of the union of their families,</span> 
    <span id="f000836">by the marriage of the young Capulet and Montague;</span> 
    <span id="f000837">and saying that lord Montague’s hand (in token of reconcilement) was all he demanded for his daughter’s jointure:</span> 
    <span id="f000838">but lord Montague said he would give him more,</span> 
    <span id="f000839">for he would raise her a statue of pure gold,</span> 
    <span id="f000840">that while Verona kept its name,</span> 
    <span id="f000841">no figure should be so esteemed for its richness and workmanship as that of the true and faithful Juliet.</span> 
    <span id="f000842">And lord Capulet in return said that he would raise another statue to Romeo.</span> 
    <span id="f000843">So did these poor old lords,</span> 
    <span id="f000844">when it was too late,</span> 
    <span id="f000845">strive to outgo each other in mutual courtesies:</span> 
    <span id="f000846">while so deadly had been their rage and enmity in past times,</span> 
    <span id="f000847">that nothing but the fearful overthrow of their children (poor sacrifices to their quarrels and dissensions) could remove the rooted hates and jealousies of the noble families.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p018.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track19">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p020.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>