<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p020.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track21">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p022.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Othello</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Brabantio,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">the rich senator of Venice,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">had a fair daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">the gentle Desdemona.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">She was sought to by divers suitors,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">both on account of her many virtuous qualities,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">and for her rich expectations.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">But among the suitors of her own clime and complexion,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">she saw none whom she could affect:</span> 
    <span id="f000011">for this noble lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">who regarded the mind more than the features of men,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">with a singularity rather to be admired than imitated,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">had chosen for the object of her affections,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">a Moor,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">a black,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">whom her father loved,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">and often invited to his house.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000019">Neither is Desdemona to be altogether condemned for the unsuitableness of the person whom she selected for her lover.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">Bating that Othello was black,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">the noble Moor wanted nothing which might recommend him to the affections of the greatest lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">He was a soldier,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">and a brave one;</span> 
    <span id="f000024">and by his conduct in bloody wars against the Turks,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">had risen to the rank of general in the Venetian service,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">and was esteemed and trusted by the state.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000027">He had been a traveller,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">and Desdemona (as is the manner of ladies) loved to hear him tell the story of his adventures,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">which he would run through from his earliest recollection;</span> 
    <span id="f000030">the battles,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">sieges,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">and encounters,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">which he had passed through;</span> 
    <span id="f000034">the perils he had been exposed to by land and by water;</span> 
    <span id="f000035">his hair-breadth escapes,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">when he had entered a breach,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">or marched up to the mouth of a cannon;</span> 
    <span id="f000038">and how he had been taken prisoner by the insolent enemy,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">and sold to slavery;</span> 
    <span id="f000040">how he demeaned himself in that state,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">and how he escaped:</span> 
    <span id="f000042">all these accounts,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">added to the narration of the strange things he had seen in foreign countries.</span> 
    <span id="f000044">the vast wilderness and romantic caverns,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">the quarries,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">the rocks and mountains,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">whose heads are in the clouds;</span> 
    <span id="f000048">of the savage nations,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">the cannibals who are man-eaters,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">and a race of people in Africa whose heads do grow beneath their shoulders:</span> 
    <span id="f000051">these travellers’ stories would so enchain the attention of Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">that if she were called off at any time by household affairs,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">she would despatch with all haste that business,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">and return,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">and with a greedy ear devour Othello’s discourse.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">And once he took advantage of a pliant hour,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">and drew from her a prayer,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">that he would tell her the whole story of his life at large,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">of which she had heard so much,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">but only by parts:</span> 
    <span id="f000061">to which he consented,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">and beguiled her of many a tear,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">when he spoke of some distressful stroke which his youth had suffered.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000064">His story being done,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">she gave him for his pains a world of sighs:</span> 
    <span id="f000066">she swore a pretty oath,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">that it was all passing strange,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and pitiful,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">wondrous pitiful:</span> 
    <span id="f000070">she wished (she said) she had not heard it,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">yet she wished that heaven had made her such a man;</span> 
    <span id="f000072">and then she thanked him,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">and told him,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">if he had a friend who loved her,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">he had only to teach him how to tell his story,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">and that would woo her.</span> 
    <span id="f000077">Upon this hint,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">delivered not with more frankness than modesty,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">accompanied with certain bewitching prettiness,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and blushes,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">which Othello could not but understand,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">he spoke more openly of his love,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">and in this golden opportunity gained the consent of the generous lady Desdemona privately to marry him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000084">Neither Othello’s colour nor his fortune were such that it could be hoped Brabantio would accept him for a son-in-law.</span> 
    <span id="f000085">He had left his daughter free;</span> 
    <span id="f000086">but he did expect that,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">as the manner of noble Venetian ladies was,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">she would choose ere long a husband of senatorial rank or expectations;</span> 
    <span id="f000089">but in this he was deceived;</span> 
    <span id="f000090">Desdemona loved the Moor,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">though he was black,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">and devoted her heart and fortunes to his valiant parts and qualities;</span> 
    <span id="f000093">so was her heart subdued to an implicit devotion to the man she had selected for a husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">that his very colour,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">which to all but this discerning lady would have proved an insurmountable objection,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">was by her esteemed above all the white skins and clear complexions of the young Venetian nobility,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">her suitors.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000098">Their marriage,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">which,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">though privately carried,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">could not long be kept a secret,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">came to the ears of the old man,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">Brabantio,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">who appeared in a solemn council of the senate,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">as an accuser of the Moor Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">who by spells and witchcraft (he maintained) had seduced the affections of the fair Desdemona to marry him,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">without the consent of her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">and against the obligations of hospitality.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000109">At this juncture of time it happened that the state of Venice had immediate need of the services of Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">news having arrived that the Turks with mighty preparation had fitted out a fleet,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">which was bending its course to the island of Cyprus,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">with intent to regain that strong post from the Venetians,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">who then held it;</span> 
    <span id="f000114">in this emergency the state turned its eyes upon Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">who alone was deemed adequate to conduct the defence of Cyprus against the Turks.</span> 
    <span id="f000116">So that Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">now summoned before the senate,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">stood in their presence at once as a candidate for a great state employment,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">and as a culprit,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">charged with offences which by the laws of Venice were made capital.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">The age and senatorial character of old Brabantio,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">commanded a most patient hearing from that grave assembly;</span> 
    <span id="f000123">but the incensed father conducted his accusation with so much intemperance,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">producing likelihoods and allegations for proofs,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">that,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">when Othello was called upon for his defence,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">he had only to relate a plain tale of the course of his love;</span> 
    <span id="f000128">which he did with such an artless eloquence,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">recounting the whole story of his wooing,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">as we have related it above,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">and delivered his speech with so noble a plainness (the evidence of truth),</span> 
    <span id="f000132">that the duke,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">who sat as chief judge,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">could not help confessing that a tale so told would have won his daughter too:</span> 
    <span id="f000135">and the spells and conjurations which Othello had used in his courtship,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">plainly appeared to have been no more than the honest arts of men in love;</span> 
    <span id="f000137">and the only witchcraft which he had used,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">the faculty of telling a soft tale to win a lady’s ear.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">This statement of Othello was confirmed by the testimony of the lady Desdemona herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">who appeared in court,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">and professing a duty to her father for life and education,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">challenged leave of him to profess a yet higher duty to her lord and husband,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">even so much as her mother had shown in preferring him (Brabantio) above her father.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000144">The old senator,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">unable to maintain his plea,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">called the Moor to him with many expressions of sorrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">as an act of necessity,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">bestowed upon him his daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">whom,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">if he had been free to withhold her (he told him),</span> 
    <span id="f000152">he would with all his heart have kept from him;</span> 
    <span id="f000153">adding,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">that he was glad at soul that he had no other child,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">for this behaviour of Desdemona would have taught him to be a tyrant,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">and hang clogs on them for her desertion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000157">This difficulty being got over.</span> 
    <span id="f000158">Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">to whom custom had rendered the hardships of a military life as natural as food and rest are to other men,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">readily undertook the management of the wars in Cyprus:</span> 
    <span id="f000161">and Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">preferring the honour of her lord (though with danger) before the indulgence of those idle delights in which new-married people usually waste their time,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">cheerfully consented to his going.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000164">No sooner were Othello and his lady landed in Cyprus,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">than news arrived,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">that a desperate tempest had dispersed the Turkish fleet,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">and thus the island was secure from any immediate apprehension of an attack.</span> 
    <span id="f000168">But the war,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">which Othello was to suffer,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">was now beginning;</span> 
    <span id="f000171">and the enemies,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">which malice stirred up against his innocent lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">proved in their nature more deadly than strangers or infidels.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000174">Among all the general’s friends no one possessed the confidence of Othello more entirely than Cassio.</span> 
    <span id="f000175">Michael Cassio was a young soldier,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">a Florentine,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">gay,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">amorous,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">and of pleasing address,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">favourite qualities with women;</span> 
    <span id="f000181">he was handsome and eloquent,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">and exactly such a person as might alarm the jealousy of a man advanced in years (as Othello in some measure was),</span> 
    <span id="f000183">who had married a young and beautiful wife;</span> 
    <span id="f000184">but Othello was as free from jealousy as he was noble,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">and as incapable of suspecting as of doing a base action.</span> 
    <span id="f000186">He had employed this Cassio in his love affair with Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">and Cassio had been a sort of go-between in his suit:</span> 
    <span id="f000188">for Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">fearing that himself had not those soft parts of conversation which please ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">and finding these qualities in his friend,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">would often depute Cassio to go (as he phrased it) a courting for him:</span> 
    <span id="f000192">such innocent simplicity being rather an honour than a blemish to the character of the valiant Moor.</span> 
    <span id="f000193">So that no wonder,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">if next to Othello himself (but at far distance,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">as beseems a virtuous wife) the gentle Desdemona loved and trusted Cassio.</span> 
    <span id="f000196">Nor had the marriage of this couple made any difference in their behaviour to Michael Cassio.</span> 
    <span id="f000197">He frequented their house,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">and his free and rattling talk was no unpleasing variety to Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">who was himself of a more serious temper:</span> 
    <span id="f000200">for such tempers are observed often to delight in their contraries,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">as a relief from the oppressive excess of their own:</span> 
    <span id="f000202">and Desdemona and Cassio would talk and laugh together,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">as in the days when he went a courting for his friend.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000204">Othello had lately promoted Cassio to be the lieutenant,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">a place of trust,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">and nearest to the general’s person.</span> 
    <span id="f000207">This promotion gave great offence to Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">an older officer who thought he had a better claim than Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">and would often ridicule Cassio as a fellow fit only for the company of ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">and one that knew no more of the art of war or how to set an army in array for battle,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">than a girl.</span> 
    <span id="f000212">Iago hated Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">and he hated Othello.</span> 
    <span id="f000214">as well for favouring Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">as for an unjust suspicion,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">which he had lightly taken up against Othello that the Moor was too fond of Iago’s wife Emilia.</span> 
    <span id="f000217">From these imaginary provocations,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">the plotting mind of Iago conceived a horrid scheme of revenge,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">which should involve both Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">the Moor,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">and Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">in one common ruin.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000223">Iago was artful,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">and had studied human nature deeply,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">and he knew that of all the torments which afflict the mind of man (and far beyond bodily torture),</span> 
    <span id="f000226">the pains of jealousy were the most intolerable,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">and had the sorest sting.</span> 
    <span id="f000228">If he could succeed in making Othello jealous of Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">he thought it would be an exquisite plot of revenge,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">and might end in the death of Cassio or Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">or both;</span> 
    <span id="f000232">he cared not.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000233">The arrival of the general and his lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">in Cyprus,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">meeting with the news of the dispersion of the enemy’s fleet,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">made a sort of holiday in the island.</span> 
    <span id="f000237">Everybody gave themselves up to feasting and making merry.</span> 
    <span id="f000238">Wine flowed in abundance,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">and cups went round to the health of the black Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">and his lady the fair Desdemona.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000241">Cassio had the direction of the guard that night,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">with a charge from Othello to keep the soldier from excess in drinking,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">that no brawl might arise,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">to fright the inhabitants,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">or disgust them with the newlanded forces.</span> 
    <span id="f000246">That night Iago began his deep-laid plans of mischief:</span> 
    <span id="f000247">under colour of loyalty and love to the general,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">he enticed Cassio to make rather too free with the bottle (a great fault in an officer upon guard).</span> 
    <span id="f000249">Cassio for a time resisted,</span> 
    <span id="f000250">but he could not long hold out against the honest freedom which Iago knew how to put on,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">but kept swallowing glass after glass (as Iago still plied him with drink and encouraging songs),</span> 
    <span id="f000252">and Cassio’s tongue ran over in praise of the lady Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">whom he again and again toasted,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">affirming that she was a most exquisite lady:</span> 
    <span id="f000255">until at last the enemy which he put into his mouth stole away his brains;</span> 
    <span id="f000256">and upon some provocation given him by a fellow whom Iago had set on,</span> 
    <span id="f000257">swords were drawn,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">and Montano,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">a worthy officer,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">who interfered to appease the dispute,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">was wounded in the scuffle.</span> 
    <span id="f000262">The riot now began to be general,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">and Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">who had set on foot the mischief,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">was foremost in spreading the alarm,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">causing the castle-bell to be rung (as if some dangerous mutiny instead of a slight drunken quarrel had arisen):</span> 
    <span id="f000267">the alarm-bell ringing awakened Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">dressing in a hurry,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">and coming to the scene of action,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">questioned Cassio of the cause.</span> 
    <span id="f000272">Cassio was now come to himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">the effect of the wine having a little gone off,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">but was too much ashamed to reply;</span> 
    <span id="f000275">and Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">pretending a great reluctance to accuse Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">but,</span> 
    <span id="f000278">as it were,</span> 
    <span id="f000279">forced into it by Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">who insisted to know the truth,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">gave an account of the whole matter (leaving out his own share in it,</span> 
    <span id="f000282">which Cassio was too far gone to remember) in such a manner,</span> 
    <span id="f000283">as while he seemed to make Cassio’s offence less,</span> 
    <span id="f000284">did indeed make it appear greater than it was.</span> 
    <span id="f000285">The result was,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">that Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">who was a strict observer of discipline,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">was compelled to take away Cassio’s place of lieutenant from him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000289">Thus did Iago’s first artifice succeed completely;</span> 
    <span id="f000290">he had now undermined his hated rival,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">and thrust him out of his place:</span> 
    <span id="f000292">but a further use was hereafter to be made of the adventure of this disastrous night.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000293">Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000294">whom this misfortune had entirely sobered,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">now lamented to his seeming friend Iago that he should have been such a fool as to transform himself into a beast.</span> 
    <span id="f000296">He was undone,</span> 
    <span id="f000297">for how could he ask the general for his place again?</span> 
    <span id="f000298">he would tell him he was a drunkard.</span> 
    <span id="f000299">He despised himself.</span> 
    <span id="f000300">Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">affecting to make light of it,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">said,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">that he,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">or any man living,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">might be drunk upon occasion;</span> 
    <span id="f000306">it remained now to make the best of a bad bargain;</span> 
    <span id="f000307">the general’s wife was now the general,</span> 
    <span id="f000308">and could do anything with Othello;</span> 
    <span id="f000309">that he were best to apply to the lady Desdemona to mediate for him with her lord;</span> 
    <span id="f000310">that she was of a frank,</span> 
    <span id="f000311">obliging disposition,</span> 
    <span id="f000312">and would readily undertake a good office of this sort,</span> 
    <span id="f000313">and set Cassio right again in the general’s favour;</span> 
    <span id="f000314">and then this crack in their love would be made stronger than ever.</span> 
    <span id="f000315">A good advice of Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000316">if it had not been given for wicked purposes,</span> 
    <span id="f000317">which will after appear.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000318">Cassio did as Iago advised him,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">and made application to the lady Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000320">who was easy to be won over in any honest suit;</span> 
    <span id="f000321">and she promised Cassio that she should be his solicitor with her lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000322">and rather die than give up his cause.</span> 
    <span id="f000323">This she immediately set about in so earnest and pretty a manner,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">that Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">who was mortally offended with Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000326">could not put her off.</span> 
    <span id="f000327">When he pleaded delay,</span> 
    <span id="f000328">and that it was too soon to pardon such an offender,</span> 
    <span id="f000329">she would not be beat back,</span> 
    <span id="f000330">but insisted that it should be the next night,</span> 
    <span id="f000331">or the morning after,</span> 
    <span id="f000332">or the next morning to that at farthest.</span> 
    <span id="f000333">Then she showed how penitent and humbled poor Cassio was,</span> 
    <span id="f000334">and that his offence did not deserve so sharp a check.</span> 
    <span id="f000335">And when Othello still hung back:</span> 
    <span id="f000336">«What!</span> 
    <span id="f000337">my lord,» said she,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">«that I should have so much to do to plead for Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">Michael Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000340">that came a courting for you,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">and oftentimes,</span> 
    <span id="f000342">when I have spoken in dispraise of you,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">has taken your part!</span> 
    <span id="f000344">I count this but a little thing to ask of you.</span> 
    <span id="f000345">When I mean to try your love indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">I shall ask a weighty matter.» Othello could deny nothing to such a pleader,</span> 
    <span id="f000347">and only requesting that Desdemona would leave the time to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000348">promised to receive Michael Cassio again in favour.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000349">It happened that Othello and Iago had entered into the room where Desdemona was,</span> 
    <span id="f000350">just as Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">who had been imploring her intercession,</span> 
    <span id="f000352">was departing at the opposite door:</span> 
    <span id="f000353">and Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000354">who was full of art,</span> 
    <span id="f000355">said in a low voice,</span> 
    <span id="f000356">as if to himself:</span> 
    <span id="f000357">«I like not that.» Othello took no great notice of what he said;</span> 
    <span id="f000358">indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000359">the conference which immediately took place with his lady put it out of his head;</span> 
    <span id="f000360">but he remembered it afterwards.</span> 
    <span id="f000361">For when Desdemona was gone,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000363">as if for mere satisfaction of his thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000364">questioned Othello whether Michael Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">when Othello was courting his lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000366">knew of his love.</span> 
    <span id="f000367">To this the general answering in the affirmative,</span> 
    <span id="f000368">and adding,</span> 
    <span id="f000369">that he had gone between them very often during the courtship,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">Iago knitted his brow,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">as if he had got fresh light on some terrible matter,</span> 
    <span id="f000372">and cried:</span> 
    <span id="f000373">«Indeed!» This brought into Othello’s mind the words which Iago had let fall upon entering the room,</span> 
    <span id="f000374">and seeing Cassio with Desdemona;</span> 
    <span id="f000375">and he began to think there was some meaning in all this:</span> 
    <span id="f000376">for he deemed Iago to be a just man,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">and full of love and honesty,</span> 
    <span id="f000378">and what in a false knave would be tricks,</span> 
    <span id="f000379">in him seemed to be the natural workings of an honest mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000380">big with something too great for utterance:</span> 
    <span id="f000381">and Othello prayed Iago to speak what he knew,</span> 
    <span id="f000382">and to give his worst thoughts words.</span> 
    <span id="f000383">«And what,» said Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000384">«if some thoughts very vile should have intruded into my breast,</span> 
    <span id="f000385">as where is the palace into which foul things do not enter?» Then Iago went on to say,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">what a pity it were,</span> 
    <span id="f000387">if any trouble should arise to Othello out of his imperfect observations;</span> 
    <span id="f000388">that it would not be for Othello’s peace to know his thoughts;</span> 
    <span id="f000389">that people’s good names were not to be taken away for slight suspicions;</span> 
    <span id="f000390">and when Othello’s curiosity was raised almost to distraction with these hints and scattered words,</span> 
    <span id="f000391">Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000392">as if in earnest care for Othello’s peace of mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000393">besought him to beware of jealousy:</span> 
    <span id="f000394">with such art did this villain raise suspicions in the unguarded Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">by the very caution which he pretended to give him against suspicion.</span> 
    <span id="f000396">«I know,» said Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">«that my wife is fair,</span> 
    <span id="f000398">loves company and feasting,</span> 
    <span id="f000399">is free of speech,</span> 
    <span id="f000400">sings,</span> 
    <span id="f000401">plays,</span> 
    <span id="f000402">and dances well:</span> 
    <span id="f000403">but where virtue is,</span> 
    <span id="f000404">these qualities are virtuous.</span> 
    <span id="f000405">I must have proof before I think her dishonest.» Then Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">as if glad that Othello was slow to believe ill of his lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">frankly declared that he had no proof,</span> 
    <span id="f000408">but begged Othello to observe her behaviour well,</span> 
    <span id="f000409">when Cassio was by;</span> 
    <span id="f000410">not to be jealous nor too secure neither,</span> 
    <span id="f000411">for that he (Iago) knew the dispositions of the Italian ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">his countrywomen,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">better than Othello could do;</span> 
    <span id="f000414">and that in Venice the wives let heaven see many pranks they dared not show their husbands.</span> 
    <span id="f000415">Then he artfully insinuated that Desdemona deceived her father in marrying with Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000416">and carried it so closely,</span> 
    <span id="f000417">that the poor old man thought that witchcraft had been used.</span> 
    <span id="f000418">Othello was much moved with this argument,</span> 
    <span id="f000419">which brought the matter home to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000420">for if she had deceived her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000421">why might she not deceive her husband?</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000422">Iago begged pardon for having moved him;</span> 
    <span id="f000423">but Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000424">assuming an indifference,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">while he was really shaken with inward grief at Iago’s words,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">begged him to go on,</span> 
    <span id="f000427">which Iago did with many apologies,</span> 
    <span id="f000428">as if unwilling to produce anything against Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000429">whom he called his friend:</span> 
    <span id="f000430">he then came strongly to the point,</span> 
    <span id="f000431">and reminded Othello how Desdemona had refused many suitable matches of her own clime and complexion,</span> 
    <span id="f000432">and had married him,</span> 
    <span id="f000433">a Moor,</span> 
    <span id="f000434">which showed unnatural in her,</span> 
    <span id="f000435">and proved her to have a headstrong will;</span> 
    <span id="f000436">and when her better judgment returned,</span> 
    <span id="f000437">how probable it was she should fall upon comparing Othello with the fine forms and clear white complexions of the young Italians her countrymen.</span> 
    <span id="f000438">He concluded with advising Othello to put off his reconcilement with Cassio a little longer,</span> 
    <span id="f000439">and in the meanwhile to note with what earnestness Desdemona should intercede in his behalf;</span> 
    <span id="f000440">for that much would be seen in that.</span> 
    <span id="f000441">So mischievously did this artful villain lay his plots to turn the gentle qualities of this innocent lady into her destruction,</span> 
    <span id="f000442">and make a net for her out of her own goodness to entrap her:</span> 
    <span id="f000443">first setting Cassio on to entreat her mediation,</span> 
    <span id="f000444">and then out of that very mediation contriving stratagems for her ruin.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000445">The conference ended with Iago’s begging Othello to account his wife innocent,</span> 
    <span id="f000446">until he had more decisive proof;</span> 
    <span id="f000447">and Othello promised to be patient;</span> 
    <span id="f000448">but from that moment the deceived Othello never tasted content of mind.</span> 
    <span id="f000449">Poppy,</span> 
    <span id="f000450">nor the juice of mandragora,</span> 
    <span id="f000451">nor all the sleeping potions in the world,</span> 
    <span id="f000452">could ever again restore to him that sweet rest,</span> 
    <span id="f000453">which he had enjoyed but yesterday.</span> 
    <span id="f000454">His occupation sickened upon him.</span> 
    <span id="f000455">He no longer took delight in arms.</span> 
    <span id="f000456">His heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000457">that used to be roused at the sight of troops,</span> 
    <span id="f000458">and banners,</span> 
    <span id="f000459">and battle-array,</span> 
    <span id="f000460">and would stir and leap at the sound of a drum,</span> 
    <span id="f000461">or a trumpet,</span> 
    <span id="f000462">or a neighing war-horse,</span> 
    <span id="f000463">seemed to have lost all that pride and ambition which are a soldier’s virtue;</span> 
    <span id="f000464">and his military ardour and all his old joys forsook him.</span> 
    <span id="f000465">Sometimes he thought his wife honest,</span> 
    <span id="f000466">and at times he thought her not so;</span> 
    <span id="f000467">sometimes he thought Iago just,</span> 
    <span id="f000468">and at times he thought him not so;</span> 
    <span id="f000469">then he would wish that he had never known of it;</span> 
    <span id="f000470">he was not the worse for her loving Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000471">so long as he knew it not:</span> 
    <span id="f000472">torn to pieces with these distracting thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000473">he once laid hold on Iago’s throat,</span> 
    <span id="f000474">and demanded proof of Desdemona’s guilt,</span> 
    <span id="f000475">or threatened instant death for his having belied her.</span> 
    <span id="f000476">Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000477">feigning indignation that his honesty should be taken for a vice,</span> 
    <span id="f000478">asked Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000479">if he had not sometimes seen a handkerchief spotted with strawberries in his wife’s hand.</span> 
    <span id="f000480">Othello answered,</span> 
    <span id="f000481">that he had given her such a one,</span> 
    <span id="f000482">and that it was his first gift.</span> 
    <span id="f000483">«That same handkerchief,» said Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000484">«did I see Michael Cassio this day wipe his face with.» «If it be as you say,» said Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000485">«I will not rest till a wide revenge swallow them up:</span> 
    <span id="f000486">and first,</span> 
    <span id="f000487">for a token of your fidelity,</span> 
    <span id="f000488">I expect that Cassio shall be put to death within three days;</span> 
    <span id="f000489">and for that fair devil (meaning his lady),</span> 
    <span id="f000490">I will withdraw and devise some swift means of death for her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000491">Trifles light as air are to the jealous proofs as strong as holy writ.</span> 
    <span id="f000492">A handkerchief of his wife’s seen in Cassio’s hand,</span> 
    <span id="f000493">was motive enough to the deluded Othello to pass sentence of death upon them both without once inquiring how Cassio came by it.</span> 
    <span id="f000494">Desdemona had never given such a present to Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000495">nor would this constant lady have wronged her lord with doing so naughty a thing as giving his presents to another man;</span> 
    <span id="f000496">both Cassio and Desdemona were innocent of any offence against Othello:</span> 
    <span id="f000497">but the wicked Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000498">whose spirits never slept in contrivance of villany,</span> 
    <span id="f000499">had made his wife (a good,</span> 
    <span id="f000500">but a weak woman) steal this handkerchief from Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000501">under presence of getting the work copied,</span> 
    <span id="f000502">but in reality to drop it in Cassio’s way,</span> 
    <span id="f000503">where he might find it,</span> 
    <span id="f000504">and give a handle to Iago’s suggestion that it was Desdemona’s present.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000505">Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000506">soon after meeting his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000507">pretended that he had a headache (as he might indeed with truth),</span> 
    <span id="f000508">and desired her to lend him her handkerchief to hold to his temples.</span> 
    <span id="f000509">She did so.</span> 
    <span id="f000510">« Not this,» said Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000511">«but that handkerchief I gave you.» Desdemona had it not about her (for indeed it was stolen,</span> 
    <span id="f000512">as we have related).</span> 
    <span id="f000513">«How?» said Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000514">«this is a fault indeed.</span> 
    <span id="f000515">That handkerchief an Egyptian woman gave to my mother;</span> 
    <span id="f000516">the woman was a witch and could read people’s thoughts:</span> 
    <span id="f000517">she told my mother,</span> 
    <span id="f000518">while she kept it,</span> 
    <span id="f000519">it would make her amiable,</span> 
    <span id="f000520">and my father would love her;</span> 
    <span id="f000521">but,</span> 
    <span id="f000522">if she lost it,</span> 
    <span id="f000523">or gave it away,</span> 
    <span id="f000524">my father’s fancy would turn,</span> 
    <span id="f000525">and he would loathe her as much as he had loved her.</span> 
    <span id="f000526">She dying gave it to me,</span> 
    <span id="f000527">and bade me,</span> 
    <span id="f000528">if I ever married,</span> 
    <span id="f000529">to give it to my wife.</span> 
    <span id="f000530">I did so;</span> 
    <span id="f000531">take heed of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000532">Make it a darling as precious as your eye.» «It is possible?» said the frighted lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000533">«Tis true,» continued Othello «it is a magical handkerchief;</span> 
    <span id="f000534">a sibyl that had lived in the world two hundred years,</span> 
    <span id="f000535">in a fit of prophetic fury worked it;</span> 
    <span id="f000536">the silkworms that furnished the silk were hallowed,</span> 
    <span id="f000537">and it was dyed in a mummy of maidens’ hearts conserved.» Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000538">hearing the wondrous virtues of the handkerchief,</span> 
    <span id="f000539">was ready to die with fear,</span> 
    <span id="f000540">for she plainly perceived she had lost it,</span> 
    <span id="f000541">and with it,</span> 
    <span id="f000542">she feared,</span> 
    <span id="f000543">the affections of her husband.</span> 
    <span id="f000544">Then Othello started,</span> 
    <span id="f000545">and looked as if he were going to do some rash thing,</span> 
    <span id="f000546">and still he demanded the handkerchief,</span> 
    <span id="f000547">which when she could not produce,</span> 
    <span id="f000548">she tried to divert her husband from too serious thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000549">and cheerfully told him she saw all his talk about the handkerchief was only to put her off from her suit about Michael Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000550">whom she went on to praise (as Iago had foretold),</span> 
    <span id="f000551">till Othello in perfect distraction burst out of the room,</span> 
    <span id="f000552">and then Desdemona,</span> 
    <span id="f000553">though unwillingly,</span> 
    <span id="f000554">began to suspect that her lord was jealous.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000555">What cause she could have ministered to him she knew not,</span> 
    <span id="f000556">and then she accused herself for accusing the noble Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000557">and thought to be sure that some untoward news from Venice,</span> 
    <span id="f000558">or some state troubles had puddled his spirits,</span> 
    <span id="f000559">and made his temper not so sweet as formerly.</span> 
    <span id="f000560">And she said:</span> 
    <span id="f000561">«Men are not gods,</span> 
    <span id="f000562">and we must not look for that observance from them when they are married,</span> 
    <span id="f000563">which they show us on the bridal day.» And she beshrewed herself for so unkindly judging of his unkindness.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000564">Again Othello and Desdemona met,</span> 
    <span id="f000565">and he accused her more plainly of being unfaithful,</span> 
    <span id="f000566">and of loving another man,</span> 
    <span id="f000567">but he did not name whom:</span> 
    <span id="f000568">and Othello wept,</span> 
    <span id="f000569">and Desdemona said:</span> 
    <span id="f000570">«Alas!</span> 
    <span id="f000571">the heavy day!</span> 
    <span id="f000572">why do you weep?» And Othello told her,</span> 
    <span id="f000573">he could have borne all sorts of evils with fortitude — poverty,</span> 
    <span id="f000574">and disease,</span> 
    <span id="f000575">and disgrace;</span> 
    <span id="f000576">but her infidelity had broken his heart:</span> 
    <span id="f000577">and he called her a weed,</span> 
    <span id="f000578">that looked so fair,</span> 
    <span id="f000579">and smelled so sweet,</span> 
    <span id="f000580">that the sense ached at it;</span> 
    <span id="f000581">and wished she had never been born.</span> 
    <span id="f000582">And when he had left her,</span> 
    <span id="f000583">this innocent lady was so stupefied with wonder at her lord’s untrue suspicion of her,</span> 
    <span id="f000584">that a weight-like sleep came over her,</span> 
    <span id="f000585">and she only desired her attendant to make her bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000586">and to lay her wedding-sheets upon it,</span> 
    <span id="f000587">saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000588">that when people teach their babes,</span> 
    <span id="f000589">they do it by gentle means and easy tasks,</span> 
    <span id="f000590">and Othello might have chid her so;</span> 
    <span id="f000591">for in good faith she was but a child when she was chidden.</span> 
    <span id="f000592">And this was all the complaint which this gentle lady made.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000593">Desdemona being retired to bed expecting her lord would follow her,</span> 
    <span id="f000594">soon fell into a slumber,</span> 
    <span id="f000595">the effect of her troubled spirits,</span> 
    <span id="f000596">when Othello entered the chamber,</span> 
    <span id="f000597">full of the black purpose which he had meditated of putting his lady to death.</span> 
    <span id="f000598">But when he saw her asleep,</span> 
    <span id="f000599">he thought he would not shed her blood,</span> 
    <span id="f000600">nor scar that white skin of hers,</span> 
    <span id="f000601">more white than alabaster.</span> 
    <span id="f000602">But he was resolved she should die;</span> 
    <span id="f000603">else (as he said) she would live to betray more men,</span> 
    <span id="f000604">as she had done him.</span> 
    <span id="f000605">Then he kissed her for the last time (as he said),</span> 
    <span id="f000606">and that kiss was so sweet,</span> 
    <span id="f000607">that he must needs kiss her again:</span> 
    <span id="f000608">and he wept,</span> 
    <span id="f000609">but he said they were cruel tears.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000610">Desdemona was awakened with his kisses,</span> 
    <span id="f000611">and she looked upon Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000612">and she saw him gnaw his under lip,</span> 
    <span id="f000613">and roll his eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000614">and she knew he was always fatal when he looked so:</span> 
    <span id="f000615">and he bade her prepare for death,</span> 
    <span id="f000616">and to say her prayers,</span> 
    <span id="f000617">for he would not kill her soul.</span> 
    <span id="f000618">And this innocent wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000619">as she lay at his mercy,</span> 
    <span id="f000620">begged for compassion,</span> 
    <span id="f000621">and to know her fault,</span> 
    <span id="f000622">and then he named Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000623">and the handkerchief which (he said) she had given him;</span> 
    <span id="f000624">and as the guiltless lady was proceeding to clear herself he suddenly would hear no more,</span> 
    <span id="f000625">but covering her up in the bed-clothes,</span> 
    <span id="f000626">stifled her till she died.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000627">In this instant of time was brought into the house Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000628">wounded and bleeding,</span> 
    <span id="f000629">whom Iago had set one of his creatures on to assassinate;</span> 
    <span id="f000630">but the fellow not succeeding in his attempt to kill Cassio (whom he wounded,</span> 
    <span id="f000631">but not mortally),</span> 
    <span id="f000632">and being himself killed by Iago to prevent discovery,</span> 
    <span id="f000633">in his pockets were found certain letters,</span> 
    <span id="f000634">which made the guilt of Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000635">and the innocence of Cassio,</span> 
    <span id="f000636">clear beyond all doubt;</span> 
    <span id="f000637">and Cassio now came to beg pardon of Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000638">and to ask wherein he had offended him,</span> 
    <span id="f000639">that he had employed Iago to murder him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000640">This discovery was as thunderstroke to Othello,</span> 
    <span id="f000641">who now plainly saw that he was no better than a murderer,</span> 
    <span id="f000642">and that his wife (poor innocent lady) had been ever faithful to him;</span> 
    <span id="f000643">the extreme anguish of which discovery making life insupportable,</span> 
    <span id="f000644">he fell upon his sword,</span> 
    <span id="f000645">and throwing himself upon the body of his dear injured lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000646">expired.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000647">These rash acts raised much passion of horror and amazement in the bystanders,</span> 
    <span id="f000648">for Othello had borne a fair reputation,</span> 
    <span id="f000649">and till he was wrought upon by the arts of a villain,</span> 
    <span id="f000650">which his own noble nature never gave him leave to suspect,</span> 
    <span id="f000651">he was a loving and a doting husband.</span> 
    <span id="f000652">He had loved not wisely,</span> 
    <span id="f000653">but too well;</span> 
    <span id="f000654">and his manly eyes (when he learned his mistake),</span> 
    <span id="f000655">though not used to weep on every small occasion,</span> 
    <span id="f000656">dropped tears as fast as the Arabian trees their gum.</span> 
    <span id="f000657">And when he was dead all his former merits and his valiant acts were remembered.</span> 
    <span id="f000658">Nothing now remained for his successor but to put the utmost censure of the law in force against Iago,</span> 
    <span id="f000659">who was executed with strict tortures;</span> 
    <span id="f000660">and to send word to the state of Venice of the lamentable death of their renowned general.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p020.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track21">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p022.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>