<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Berenice</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edgar Allan Poe</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000007">Dicebant mihi sodales,</span>
   <span id="f000008">si sepulchrum amicae visitarem,</span>
   <span id="f000009">curas<br /></span>
   <span id="f000010">meas aliquantulum forelevatas.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">– <em>Ebn Zaiat</em>.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000012">Misery is manifold.</span>
   <span id="f000013">The wretchedness of earth is multiform.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Overreaching the wide horizon as the rainbow,</span>
   <span id="f000015">its hues are as various as the hues of that arch – as distinct too,</span>
   <span id="f000016">yet as intimately blended.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Overreaching the wide horizon as the rainbow!</span>
   <span id="f000018">How is it that from beauty I have derived a type of unloveliness?</span>
   <span id="f000019">– from the covenant of peace,</span>
   <span id="f000020">a simile of sorrow?</span>
   <span id="f000021">But as,</span>
   <span id="f000022">in ethics,</span>
   <span id="f000023">evil is a consequence of good,</span>
   <span id="f000024">so,</span>
   <span id="f000025">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000026">out of joy is sorrow born.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Either the memory of past bliss is the anguish of to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000028">or the agonies which <em>are</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000029">have their origin in the ecstasies which <em>might have been</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">My baptismal name is Egaeus;</span>
   <span id="f000031">that of my family I will not mention.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Yet there are no towers in the land more time-honored than my gloomy,</span>
   <span id="f000033">gray,</span>
   <span id="f000034">hereditary halls.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Our line has been called a race of visionaries;</span>
   <span id="f000036">and in many striking particulars – in the character of the family mansion – in the frescos of the chief saloon – in the tapestries of the dormitories – in the chiselling of some buttresses in the armory – but more especially in the gallery of antique paintings – in the fashion of the library chamber – and,</span>
   <span id="f000037">lastly,</span>
   <span id="f000038">in the very peculiar nature of the library’s contents – there is more than sufficient evidence to warrant the belief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">The recollections of my earliest years are connected with that chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and with its volumes – of which latter I will say no more.</span>
   <span id="f000041">Here died my mother.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Herein was I born.</span>
   <span id="f000043">But it is mere idleness to say that I had not lived before – that the soul has no previous existence.</span>
   <span id="f000044">You deny it?</span>
   <span id="f000045">– let us not argue the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Convinced myself,</span>
   <span id="f000047">I seek not to convince.</span>
   <span id="f000048">There is,</span>
   <span id="f000049">however,</span>
   <span id="f000050">a remembrance of aerial forms – of spiritual and meaning eyes – of sounds,</span>
   <span id="f000051">musical yet sad – a remembrance which will not be excluded;</span>
   <span id="f000052">a memory like a shadow – vague,</span>
   <span id="f000053">variable,</span>
   <span id="f000054">indefinite,</span>
   <span id="f000055">unsteady;</span>
   <span id="f000056">and like a shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000057">too,</span>
   <span id="f000058">in the impossibility of my getting rid of it while the sunlight of my reason shall exist.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">In that chamber was I born.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Thus awaking from the long night of what seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000061">but was not,</span>
   <span id="f000062">nonentity,</span>
   <span id="f000063">at once into the very regions of fairy land – into a palace of imagination – into the wild dominions of monastic thought and erudition – it is not singular that I gazed around me with a startled and ardent eye – that I loitered away my boyhood in books,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and dissipated my youth in reverie;</span>
   <span id="f000065">but it <em>is</em> singular that as years rolled away,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and the noon of manhood found me still in the mansion of my fathers – it <em>is</em> wonderful what stagnation there fell upon the springs of my life – wonderful how total an inversion took place in the character of my commonest thought.</span>
   <span id="f000067">The realities of the world affected me as visions,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and as visions only,</span>
   <span id="f000069">while the wild ideas of the land of dreams became,</span>
   <span id="f000070">in turn,</span>
   <span id="f000071">not the material of my every-day existence,</span>
   <span id="f000072">but in very deed that existence utterly and solely in itself.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000073">Berenice and I were cousins,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and we grew up together in my paternal halls.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Yet differently we grew – I,</span>
   <span id="f000076">ill of health,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and buried in gloom – she,</span>
   <span id="f000078">agile,</span>
   <span id="f000079">graceful,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and overflowing with energy;</span>
   <span id="f000081">hers,</span>
   <span id="f000082">the ramble on the hill-side – mine the studies of the cloister;</span>
   <span id="f000083">I,</span>
   <span id="f000084">living within my own heart,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and addicted,</span>
   <span id="f000086">body and soul,</span>
   <span id="f000087">to the most intense and painful meditation – she,</span>
   <span id="f000088">roaming carelessly through life,</span>
   <span id="f000089">with no thought of the shadows in her path,</span>
   <span id="f000090">or the silent flight of the raven-winged hours.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Berenice!</span>
   <span id="f000092">– I call upon her name – Berenice!</span>
   <span id="f000093">– and from the gray ruins of memory a thousand tumultuous recollections are startled at the sound!</span>
   <span id="f000094">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000095">vividly is her image before me now,</span>
   <span id="f000096">as in the early days of her light-heartedness and joy!</span>
   <span id="f000097">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000098">gorgeous yet fantastic beauty!</span>
   <span id="f000099">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000100">sylph amid the shrubberies of Arnheim!</span>
   <span id="f000101">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000102">Naiad among its fountains!</span>
   <span id="f000103">And then – then all is mystery and terror,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and a tale which should not be told.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Disease – a fatal disease,</span>
   <span id="f000106">fell like the simoon upon her frame;</span>
   <span id="f000107">and,</span>
   <span id="f000108">even while I gazed upon her,</span>
   <span id="f000109">the spirit of change swept over her,</span>
   <span id="f000110">pervading her mind,</span>
   <span id="f000111">her habits,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and her character,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and,</span>
   <span id="f000114">in a manner the most subtle and terrible,</span>
   <span id="f000115">disturbing even the identity of her person!</span>
   <span id="f000116">Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000117">the destroyer came and went!</span>
   <span id="f000118">– and the victim – where is she?</span>
   <span id="f000119">I knew her not – or knew her no longer as Berenice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">Among the numerous train of maladies superinduced by that fatal and primary one which effected a revolution of so horrible a kind in the moral and physical being of my cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000121">may be mentioned as the most distressing and obstinate in its nature,</span>
   <span id="f000122">a species of epilepsy not unfrequently terminating in <em>trance</em> itself – trance very nearly resembling positive dissolution,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and from which her manner of recovery was in most instances,</span>
   <span id="f000124">startlingly abrupt.</span>
   <span id="f000125">In the mean time my own disease – for I have been told that I should call it by no other appellation – my own disease,</span>
   <span id="f000126">then,</span>
   <span id="f000127">grew rapidly upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and assumed finally a monomaniac character of a novel and extraordinary form – hourly and momently gaining vigor – and at length obtaining over me the most incomprehensible ascendancy.</span>
   <span id="f000129">This monomania,</span>
   <span id="f000130">if I must so term it,</span>
   <span id="f000131">consisted in a morbid irritability of those properties of the mind in metaphysical science termed the <em>attentive</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000132">It is more than probable that I am not understood;</span>
   <span id="f000133">but I fear,</span>
   <span id="f000134">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000135">that it is in no manner possible to convey to the mind of the merely general reader,</span>
   <span id="f000136">an adequate idea of that nervous <em>intensity of interest</em> with which,</span>
   <span id="f000137">in my case,</span>
   <span id="f000138">the powers of meditation</span>
   <span id="f000139">(not to speak technically)</span>
   <span id="f000140">busied and buried themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000141">in the contemplation of even the most ordinary objects of the universe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">To muse for long unwearied hours,</span>
   <span id="f000143">with my attention riveted to some frivolous device on the margin,</span>
   <span id="f000144">or in the typography of a book;</span>
   <span id="f000145">to become absorbed,</span>
   <span id="f000146">for the better part of a summer’s day,</span>
   <span id="f000147">in a quaint shadow falling aslant upon the tapestry or upon the floor;</span>
   <span id="f000148">to lose myself,</span>
   <span id="f000149">for an entire night,</span>
   <span id="f000150">in watching the steady flame of a lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000151">or the embers of a fire;</span>
   <span id="f000152">to dream away whole days over the perfume of a flower;</span>
   <span id="f000153">to repeat,</span>
   <span id="f000154">monotonously,</span>
   <span id="f000155">some common word,</span>
   <span id="f000156">until the sound,</span>
   <span id="f000157">by dint of frequent repetition,</span>
   <span id="f000158">ceased to convey any idea whatever to the mind;</span>
   <span id="f000159">to lose all sense of motion or physical existence,</span>
   <span id="f000160">by means of absolute bodily quiescence long and obstinately persevered in:</span>
   <span id="f000161">such were a few of the most common and least pernicious vagaries induced by a condition of the mental faculties,</span>
   <span id="f000162">not,</span>
   <span id="f000163">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000164">altogether unparalleled,</span>
   <span id="f000165">but certainly bidding defiance to anything like analysis or explanation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">Yet let me not be misapprehended.</span>
   <span id="f000167">The undue,</span>
   <span id="f000168">earnest,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and morbid attention thus excited by objects in their own nature frivolous,</span>
   <span id="f000170">must not be confounded in character with that ruminating propensity common to all mankind,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and more especially indulged in by persons of ardent imagination.</span>
   <span id="f000172">It was not even,</span>
   <span id="f000173">as might be at first supposed,</span>
   <span id="f000174">an extreme condition,</span>
   <span id="f000175">or exaggeration of such propensity,</span>
   <span id="f000176">but primarily and essentially distinct and different.</span>
   <span id="f000177">In the one instance,</span>
   <span id="f000178">the dreamer,</span>
   <span id="f000179">or enthusiast,</span>
   <span id="f000180">being interested by an object usually <em>not</em> frivolous,</span>
   <span id="f000181">imperceptibly loses sight of this object in a wilderness of deductions and suggestions issuing therefrom,</span>
   <span id="f000182">until,</span>
   <span id="f000183">at the conclusion of a day dream <em>often replete with luxury</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000184">he finds the <em>incitamentum</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000185">or first cause of his musings,</span>
   <span id="f000186">entirely vanished and forgotten.</span>
   <span id="f000187">In my case,</span>
   <span id="f000188">the primary object was <em>invariably frivolous</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000189">although assuming,</span>
   <span id="f000190">through the medium of my distempered vision,</span>
   <span id="f000191">a refracted and unreal importance.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Few deductions,</span>
   <span id="f000193">if any,</span>
   <span id="f000194">were made;</span>
   <span id="f000195">and those few pertinaciously returning in upon the original object as a centre.</span>
   <span id="f000196">The meditations were <em>never</em> pleasurable;</span>
   <span id="f000197">and,</span>
   <span id="f000198">at the termination of the reverie,</span>
   <span id="f000199">the first cause,</span>
   <span id="f000200">so far from being out of sight,</span>
   <span id="f000201">had attained that supernaturally exaggerated interest which was the prevailing feature of the disease.</span>
   <span id="f000202">In a word,</span>
   <span id="f000203">the powers of mind more particularly exercised were,</span>
   <span id="f000204">with me,</span>
   <span id="f000205">as I have said before,</span>
   <span id="f000206">the <em>attentive</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and are,</span>
   <span id="f000208">with the day-dreamer,</span>
   <span id="f000209">the <em>speculative</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">My books,</span>
   <span id="f000211">at this epoch,</span>
   <span id="f000212">if they did not actually serve to irritate the disorder,</span>
   <span id="f000213">partook,</span>
   <span id="f000214">it will be perceived,</span>
   <span id="f000215">largely,</span>
   <span id="f000216">in their imaginative and inconsequential nature,</span>
   <span id="f000217">of the characteristic qualities of the disorder itself.</span>
   <span id="f000218">I well remember,</span>
   <span id="f000219">among others,</span>
   <span id="f000220">the treatise of the noble Italian,</span>
   <span id="f000221">Coelius Secundus Curio,</span>
   <span id="f000222">“<em>De Amplitudine Beati Regni Dei;</em>” St.&#160;Austin’s great work,</span>
   <span id="f000223">the “City of God;” and Tertullian’s “<em>De Carne Christi</em>,” in which the paradoxical sentence “<em>Mortuus est Dei filius; </em></span>
   <span id="f000224"><em>credible est quia ineptum est: </em></span>
   <span id="f000225"><em>et sepultus resurrexit; </em></span>
   <span id="f000226"><em>certum est quia impossibile est,</em>” occupied my undivided time,</span>
   <span id="f000227">for many weeks of laborious and fruitless investigation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">Thus it will appear that,</span>
   <span id="f000229">shaken from its balance only by trivial things,</span>
   <span id="f000230">my reason bore resemblance to that ocean-crag spoken of by Ptolemy Hephestion,</span>
   <span id="f000231">which steadily resisting the attacks of human violence,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and the fiercer fury of the waters and the winds,</span>
   <span id="f000233">trembled only to the touch of the flower called Asphodel.</span>
   <span id="f000234">And although,</span>
   <span id="f000235">to a careless thinker,</span>
   <span id="f000236">it might appear a matter beyond doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000237">that the alteration produced by her unhappy malady,</span>
   <span id="f000238">in the <em>moral</em> condition of Berenice,</span>
   <span id="f000239">would afford me many objects for the exercise of that intense and abnormal meditation whose nature I have been at some trouble in explaining,</span>
   <span id="f000240">yet such was not in any degree the case.</span>
   <span id="f000241">In the lucid intervals of my infirmity,</span>
   <span id="f000242">her calamity,</span>
   <span id="f000243">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000244">gave me pain,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and,</span>
   <span id="f000246">taking deeply to heart that total wreck of her fair and gentle life,</span>
   <span id="f000247">I did not fail to ponder,</span>
   <span id="f000248">frequently and bitterly,</span>
   <span id="f000249">upon the wonder-working means by which so strange a revolution had been so suddenly brought to pass.</span>
   <span id="f000250">But these reflections partook not of the idiosyncrasy of my disease,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and were such as would have occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000252">under similar circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000253">to the ordinary mass of mankind.</span>
   <span id="f000254">True to its own character,</span>
   <span id="f000255">my disorder revelled in the less important but more startling changes wrought in the <em>physical</em> frame of Berenice – in the singular and most appalling distortion of her personal identity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">During the brightest days of her unparalleled beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000257">most surely I had never loved her.</span>
   <span id="f000258">In the strange anomaly of my existence,</span>
   <span id="f000259">feelings with me,</span>
   <span id="f000260"><em>had never been</em> of the heart,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and my passions <em>always were</em> of the mind.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Through the gray of the early morning – among the trellised shadows of the forest at noonday – and in the silence of my library at night – she had flitted by my eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and I had seen her – not as the living and breathing Berenice,</span>
   <span id="f000264">but as the Berenice of a dream;</span>
   <span id="f000265">not as a being of the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000266">earthy,</span>
   <span id="f000267">but as the abstraction of such a being;</span>
   <span id="f000268">not as a thing to admire,</span>
   <span id="f000269">but to analyze;</span>
   <span id="f000270">not as an object of love,</span>
   <span id="f000271">but as the theme of the most abstruse although desultory speculation.</span>
   <span id="f000272">And <em>now</em> – now I shuddered in her presence,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and grew pale at her approach;</span>
   <span id="f000274">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000275">bitterly lamenting her fallen and desolate condition,</span>
   <span id="f000276">I called to mind that she had loved me long,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and,</span>
   <span id="f000278">in an evil moment,</span>
   <span id="f000279">I spoke to her of marriage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">And at length the period of our nuptials was approaching,</span>
   <span id="f000281">when,</span>
   <span id="f000282">upon an afternoon in the winter of the year – one of those unseasonably warm,</span>
   <span id="f000283">calm,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and misty days which are the nurse of the beautiful Halcyon,</span>
   <span id="f000285">– I sat,</span>
   <span id="f000286">(and sat,</span>
   <span id="f000287">as I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000288">alone,)</span>
   <span id="f000289">in the inner apartment of the library.</span>
   <span id="f000290">But,</span>
   <span id="f000291">uplifting my eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000292">I saw that Berenice stood before me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">Was it my own excited imagination – or the misty influence of the atmosphere – or the uncertain twilight of the chamber – or the gray draperies which fell around her figure – that caused in it so vacillating and indistinct an outline?</span>
   <span id="f000294">I could not tell.</span>
   <span id="f000295">She spoke no word;</span>
   <span id="f000296">and I – not for worlds could I have uttered a syllable.</span>
   <span id="f000297">An icy chill ran through my frame;</span>
   <span id="f000298">a sense of insufferable anxiety oppressed me;</span>
   <span id="f000299">a consuming curiosity pervaded my soul;</span>
   <span id="f000300">and sinking back upon the chair,</span>
   <span id="f000301">I remained for some time breathless and motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000302">with my eyes riveted upon her person.</span>
   <span id="f000303">Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000304">its emaciation was excessive,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and not one vestige of the former being lurked in any single line of the contour.</span>
   <span id="f000306">My burning glances at length fell upon the face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">The forehead was high,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and very pale,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and singularly placid;</span>
   <span id="f000310">and the once jetty hair fell partially over it,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and overshadowed the hollow temples with innumerable ringlets,</span>
   <span id="f000312">now of a vivid yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and jarring discordantly,</span>
   <span id="f000314">in their fantastic character,</span>
   <span id="f000315">with the reigning melancholy of the countenance.</span>
   <span id="f000316">The eyes were lifeless,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and lustreless,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and seemingly pupilless,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and I shrank involuntarily from their glassy stare to the contemplation of the thin and shrunken lips.</span>
   <span id="f000320">They parted;</span>
   <span id="f000321">and in a smile of peculiar meaning,</span>
   <span id="f000322"><em>the teeth</em> of the changed Berenice disclosed themselves slowly to my view.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Would to God that I had never beheld them,</span>
   <span id="f000324">or that,</span>
   <span id="f000325">having done so,</span>
   <span id="f000326">I had died!</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000327">The shutting of a door disturbed me,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and,</span>
   <span id="f000329">looking up,</span>
   <span id="f000330">I found that my cousin had departed from the chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000331">But from the disordered chamber of my brain,</span>
   <span id="f000332">had not,</span>
   <span id="f000333">alas!</span>
   <span id="f000334">departed,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and would not be driven away,</span>
   <span id="f000336">the white and ghastly <em>spectrum</em> of the teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Not a speck on their surface – not a shade on their enamel – not an indenture in their edges – but what that period of her smile had sufficed to brand in upon my memory.</span>
   <span id="f000338">I saw them <em>now</em> even more unequivocally than I beheld them <em>then</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000339">The teeth!</span>
   <span id="f000340">– the teeth!</span>
   <span id="f000341">– they were here,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and visibly and palpably before me;</span>
   <span id="f000345">long,</span>
   <span id="f000346">narrow,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and excessively white,</span>
   <span id="f000348">with the pale lips writhing about them,</span>
   <span id="f000349">as in the very moment of their first terrible development.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Then came the full fury of my <em>monomania</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and I struggled in vain against its strange and irresistible influence.</span>
   <span id="f000352">In the multiplied objects of the external world I had no thoughts but for the teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000353">For these I longed with a phrenzied desire.</span>
   <span id="f000354">All other matters and all different interests became absorbed in their single contemplation.</span>
   <span id="f000355">They – they alone were present to the mental eye,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and they,</span>
   <span id="f000357">in their sole individuality,</span>
   <span id="f000358">became the essence of my mental life.</span>
   <span id="f000359">I held them in every light.</span>
   <span id="f000360">I turned them in every attitude.</span>
   <span id="f000361">I surveyed their characteristics.</span>
   <span id="f000362">I dwelt upon their peculiarities.</span>
   <span id="f000363">I pondered upon their conformation.</span>
   <span id="f000364">I mused upon the alteration in their nature.</span>
   <span id="f000365">I shuddered as I assigned to them in imagination a sensitive and sentient power,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and even when unassisted by the lips,</span>
   <span id="f000367">a capability of moral expression.</span>
   <span id="f000368">Of Mademoiselle Salle it has been well said,</span>
   <span id="f000369">“<em>Que tous ses pas etaient des sentiments</em>,” and of Berenice I more seriously believed <em>que toutes ses dents etaient des idees</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000370"><em>Des idees!</em> – ah here was the idiotic thought that destroyed me!</span>
   <span id="f000371"><em>Des idees!</em> – ah <em>therefore</em> it was that I coveted them so madly!</span>
   <span id="f000372">I felt that their possession could alone ever restore me to peace,</span>
   <span id="f000373">in giving me back to reason.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">And the evening closed in upon me thus – and then the darkness came,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and tarried,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and went – and the day again dawned – and the mists of a second night were now gathering around – and still I sat motionless in that solitary room – and still I sat buried in meditation – and still the <em>phantasma</em> of the teeth maintained its terrible ascendancy,</span>
   <span id="f000377">as,</span>
   <span id="f000378">with the most vivid hideous distinctness,</span>
   <span id="f000379">it floated about amid the changing lights and shadows of the chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000380">At length there broke in upon my dreams a cry as of horror and dismay;</span>
   <span id="f000381">and thereunto,</span>
   <span id="f000382">after a pause,</span>
   <span id="f000383">succeeded the sound of troubled voices,</span>
   <span id="f000384">intermingled with many low moanings of sorrow or of pain.</span>
   <span id="f000385">I arose from my seat,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and throwing open one of the doors of the library,</span>
   <span id="f000387">saw standing out in the ante-chamber a servant maiden,</span>
   <span id="f000388">all in tears,</span>
   <span id="f000389">who told me that Berenice was – no more!</span>
   <span id="f000390">She had been seized with epilepsy in the early morning,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and now,</span>
   <span id="f000392">at the closing in of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000393">the grave was ready for its tenant,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and all the preparations for the burial were completed.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000395">I found myself sitting in the library,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and again sitting there alone.</span>
   <span id="f000397">It seemed that I had newly awakened from a confused and exciting dream.</span>
   <span id="f000398">I knew that it was now midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and I was well aware,</span>
   <span id="f000400">that since the setting of the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000401">Berenice had been interred.</span>
   <span id="f000402">But of that dreary period which intervened I had no positive,</span>
   <span id="f000403">at least no definite comprehension.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Yet its memory was replete with horror – horror more horrible from being vague,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and terror more terrible from ambiguity.</span>
   <span id="f000406">It was a fearful page in the record my existence,</span>
   <span id="f000407">written all over with dim,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and hideous,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and unintelligible recollections.</span>
   <span id="f000410">I strived to decypher them,</span>
   <span id="f000411">but in vain;</span>
   <span id="f000412">while ever and anon,</span>
   <span id="f000413">like the spirit of a departed sound,</span>
   <span id="f000414">the shrill and piercing shriek of a female voice seemed to be ringing in my ears.</span>
   <span id="f000415">I had done a deed – what was it?</span>
   <span id="f000416">I asked myself the question aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and the whispering echoes of the chamber answered me,</span>
   <span id="f000418">– “<em>what was it?</em>”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">On the table beside me burned a lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and near it lay a little box.</span>
   <span id="f000421">It was of no remarkable character,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and I had seen it frequently before,</span>
   <span id="f000423">for it was the property of the family physician;</span>
   <span id="f000424">but how came it <em>there</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000425">upon my table,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and why did I shudder in regarding it?</span>
   <span id="f000427">These things were in no manner to be accounted for,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and my eyes at length dropped to the open pages of a book,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and to a sentence underscored therein.</span>
   <span id="f000430">The words were the singular but simple ones of the poet Ebn Zaiat:</span>
   <span id="f000431">– “<em>Dicebant mihi sodales si sepulchrum amicae visitarem, </em></span>
   <span id="f000432"><em>curas meas aliquantulum fore levatas</em>.” Why then,</span>
   <span id="f000433">as I perused them,</span>
   <span id="f000434">did the hairs of my head erect themselves on end,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and the blood of my body become congealed within my veins?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">There came a light tap at the library door – and,</span>
   <span id="f000437">pale as the tenant of a tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000438">a menial entered upon tiptoe.</span>
   <span id="f000439">His looks were wild with terror,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and he spoke to me in a voice tremulous,</span>
   <span id="f000441">husky,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and very low.</span>
   <span id="f000443">What said he?</span>
   <span id="f000444">– some broken sentences I heard.</span>
   <span id="f000445">He told of a wild cry disturbing the silence of the night – of the gathering together of the household – of a search in the direction of the sound;</span>
   <span id="f000446">and then his tones grew thrillingly distinct as he whispered me of a violated grave – of a disfigured body enshrouded,</span>
   <span id="f000447">yet still breathing – still palpitating – <em>still alive</em>!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">He pointed to garments;</span>
   <span id="f000449">– they were muddy and clotted with gore.</span>
   <span id="f000450">I spoke not,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and he took me gently by the hand:</span>
   <span id="f000452">it was indented with the impress of human nails.</span>
   <span id="f000453">He directed my attention to some object against the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000454">I looked at it for some minutes:</span>
   <span id="f000455">it was a spade.</span>
   <span id="f000456">With a shriek I bounded to the table,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and grasped the box that lay upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000458">But I could not force it open;</span>
   <span id="f000459">and in my tremor,</span>
   <span id="f000460">it slipped from my hands,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and fell heavily,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and burst into pieces;</span>
   <span id="f000463">and from it,</span>
   <span id="f000464">with a rattling sound,</span>
   <span id="f000465">there rolled out some instruments of dental surgery,</span>
   <span id="f000466">intermingled with thirty-two small,</span>
   <span id="f000467">white and ivory-looking substances that were scattered to and fro about the floor.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

