<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />William Coon</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Duplicity of Hargraves</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />O. Henry</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">When Major Pendleton Talbot,</span>
   <span id="f000008">of Mobile,</span>
   <span id="f000009">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and his daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000011">Miss Lydia Talbot,</span>
   <span id="f000012">came to Washington to reside,</span>
   <span id="f000013">they selected for a boarding place a house that stood fifty yards back from one of the quietest avenues.</span>
   <span id="f000014">It was an old-fashioned brick building,</span>
   <span id="f000015">with a portico upheld by tall white pillars.</span>
   <span id="f000016">The yard was shaded by stately locusts and elms,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and a catalpa tree in season rained its pink and white blossoms upon the grass.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Rows of high box bushes lined the fence and walks.</span>
   <span id="f000019">It was the Southern style and aspect of the place that pleased the eyes of the Talbots.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">In this pleasant private boarding house they engaged rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000021">including a study for Major Talbot,</span>
   <span id="f000022">who was adding the finishing chapters to his book,</span>
   <span id="f000023"><em>Anecdotes and Reminiscences of the Alabama Army, </em></span>
   <span id="f000024"><em>Bench, </em></span>
   <span id="f000025"><em>and Bar</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">Major Talbot was of the old,</span>
   <span id="f000027">old South.</span>
   <span id="f000028">The present day had little interest or excellence in his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000029">His mind lived in that period before the Civil War when the Talbots owned thousands of acres of fine cotton land and the slaves to till them;</span>
   <span id="f000030">when the family mansion was the scene of princely hospitality,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and drew its guests from the aristocracy of the South.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Out of that period he had brought all its old pride and scruples of honor,</span>
   <span id="f000033">an antiquated and punctilious politeness,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and</span>
   <span id="f000035">(you would think)</span>
   <span id="f000036">its wardrobe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">Such clothes were surely never made within fifty years.</span>
   <span id="f000038">The Major was tall,</span>
   <span id="f000039">but whenever he made that wonderful,</span>
   <span id="f000040">archaic genuflexion he called a bow,</span>
   <span id="f000041">the corners of his frock coat swept the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000042">That garment was a surprise even to Washington,</span>
   <span id="f000043">which has long ago ceased to shy at the frocks and broad-brimmed hats of Southern Congressmen.</span>
   <span id="f000044">One of the boarders christened it a “Father Hubbard,” and it certainly was high in the waist and full in the skirt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">But the Major,</span>
   <span id="f000046">with all his queer clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000047">his immense area of plaited,</span>
   <span id="f000048">raveling shirt bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and the little black string tie with the bow always slipping on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000050">both was smiled at and liked in Mrs.&#160;Vardeman’s select boarding house.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Some of the young department clerks would often “string him,” as they called it,</span>
   <span id="f000052">getting him started upon the subject dearest to him – the traditions and history of his beloved Southland.</span>
   <span id="f000053">During his talks he would quote freely from the <em>Anecdotes and Reminiscences</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000054">But they were very careful not to let him see their designs,</span>
   <span id="f000055">for in spite of his sixty-eight years he could make the boldest of them uncomfortable under the steady regard of his piercing gray eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">Miss Lydia was a plump,</span>
   <span id="f000057">little old maid of thirty-five,</span>
   <span id="f000058">with smoothly drawn,</span>
   <span id="f000059">tightly twisted hair that made her look still older.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Old-fashioned,</span>
   <span id="f000061">too,</span>
   <span id="f000062">she was;</span>
   <span id="f000063">but antebellum glory did not radiate from her as it did from the Major.</span>
   <span id="f000064">She possessed a thrifty common sense,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and it was she who handled the finances of the family,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and met all comers when there were bills to pay.</span>
   <span id="f000067">The Major regarded board bills and wash bills as contemptible nuisances.</span>
   <span id="f000068">They kept coming in so persistently and so often.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000070">the Major wanted to know,</span>
   <span id="f000071">could they not be filed and paid in a lump sum at some convenient period – say when the <em>Anecdotes and Reminiscences</em> had been published and paid for?</span>
   <span id="f000072">Miss Lydia would calmly go on with her sewing and say,</span>
   <span id="f000073">“We’ll pay as we go as long as the money lasts,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and then perhaps they’ll have to lump it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">Most of Mrs.&#160;Vardeman’s boarders were away during the day,</span>
   <span id="f000076">being nearly all department clerks and business men;</span>
   <span id="f000077">but there was one of them who was about the house a great deal from morning to night.</span>
   <span id="f000078">This was a young man named Henry Hopkins Hargraves – every one in the house addressed him by his full name – who was engaged at one of the popular vaudeville theaters.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Vaudeville has risen to such a respectable plane in the last few years,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and Mr.&#160;Hargraves was such a modest and well-mannered person,</span>
   <span id="f000081">that Mrs.&#160;Vardeman could find no objection to enrolling him upon her list of boarders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">At the theater Hargraves was known as an all-round dialect comedian,</span>
   <span id="f000083">having a large repertoire of German,</span>
   <span id="f000084">Irish,</span>
   <span id="f000085">Swede,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and black-face specialties.</span>
   <span id="f000087">But Mr.&#160;Hargraves was ambitious,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and often spoke of his great desire to succeed in legitimate comedy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">This young man appeared to conceive a strong fancy for Major Talbot.</span>
   <span id="f000090">Whenever that gentleman would begin his Southern reminiscences,</span>
   <span id="f000091">or repeat some of the liveliest of the anecdotes,</span>
   <span id="f000092">Hargraves could always be found,</span>
   <span id="f000093">the most attentive among his listeners.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">For a time the Major showed an inclination to discourage the advances of the “play actor,” as he privately termed him;</span>
   <span id="f000095">but soon the young man’s agreeable manner and indubitable appreciation of the old gentleman’s stories completely won him over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">It was not long before the two were like old chums.</span>
   <span id="f000097">The Major set apart each afternoon to read to him the manuscript of his book.</span>
   <span id="f000098">During the anecdotes Hargraves never failed to laugh at exactly the right point.</span>
   <span id="f000099">The Major was moved to declare to Miss Lydia one day that young Hargraves possessed remarkable perception and a gratifying respect for the old regime.</span>
   <span id="f000100">And when it came to talking of those old days – if Major Talbot liked to talk,</span>
   <span id="f000101">Mr.&#160;Hargraves was entranced to listen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">Like almost all old people who talk of the past,</span>
   <span id="f000103">the Major loved to linger over details.</span>
   <span id="f000104">In describing the splendid,</span>
   <span id="f000105">almost royal,</span>
   <span id="f000106">days of the old planters,</span>
   <span id="f000107">he would hesitate until he had recalled the name of the negro who held his horse,</span>
   <span id="f000108">or the exact date of certain minor happenings,</span>
   <span id="f000109">or the number of bales of cotton raised in such a year;</span>
   <span id="f000110">but Hargraves never grew impatient or lost interest.</span>
   <span id="f000111">On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000112">he would advance questions on a variety of subjects connected with the life of that time,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and he never failed to extract ready replies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">The fox hunts,</span>
   <span id="f000115">the ’possum suppers,</span>
   <span id="f000116">the hoe-downs and jubilees in the negro quarters,</span>
   <span id="f000117">the banquets in the plantation-house hall,</span>
   <span id="f000118">when invitations went for fifty miles around;</span>
   <span id="f000119">the occasional feuds with the neighboring gentry;</span>
   <span id="f000120">the Major’s duel with Rathbone Culbertson about Kitty Chalmers,</span>
   <span id="f000121">who afterward married a Thwaite of South Carolina;</span>
   <span id="f000122">and private yacht races for fabulous sums on Mobile Bay;</span>
   <span id="f000123">the quaint beliefs,</span>
   <span id="f000124">improvident habits,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and loyal virtues of the old slaves – all these were subjects that held both the Major and Hargraves absorbed for hours at a time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">Sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000127">at night,</span>
   <span id="f000128">when the young man would be coming upstairs to his room after his turn at the theater was over,</span>
   <span id="f000129">the Major would appear at the door of his study and beckon archly to him.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Going in,</span>
   <span id="f000131">Hargraves would find a little table set with a decanter,</span>
   <span id="f000132">sugar bowl,</span>
   <span id="f000133">fruit,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and a big bunch of fresh green mint.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“It occurred to me,” the Major would begin – he was always ceremonious – “that perhaps you might have found your duties at the – at your place of occupation – sufficiently arduous to enable you,</span>
   <span id="f000136">Mr.&#160;Hargraves,</span>
   <span id="f000137">to appreciate what the poet might well have had in his mind when he wrote,</span>
   <span id="f000138">’tired Nature’s sweet restorer’ – one of our Southern juleps.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">It was a fascination to Hargraves to watch him make it.</span>
   <span id="f000140">He took rank among artists when he began,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and he never varied the process.</span>
   <span id="f000142">With what delicacy he bruised the mint;</span>
   <span id="f000143">with what exquisite nicety he estimated the ingredients;</span>
   <span id="f000144">with what solicitous care he capped the compound with the scarlet fruit glowing against the dark green fringe!</span>
   <span id="f000145">And then the hospitality and grace with which he offered it,</span>
   <span id="f000146">after the selected oat straws had been plunged into its tinkling depths!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">After about four months in Washington,</span>
   <span id="f000148">Miss Lydia discovered one morning that they were almost without money.</span>
   <span id="f000149">The <em>Anecdotes and Reminiscences</em> was completed,</span>
   <span id="f000150">but publishers had not jumped at the collected gems of Alabama sense and wit.</span>
   <span id="f000151">The rental of a small house which they still owned in Mobile was two months in arrears.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Their board money for the month would be due in three days.</span>
   <span id="f000153">Miss Lydia called her father to a consultation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“No money?” said he with a surprised look.</span>
   <span id="f000155">“It is quite annoying to be called on so frequently for these petty sums,</span>
   <span id="f000156">Really,</span>
   <span id="f000157">I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">The Major searched his pockets.</span>
   <span id="f000159">He found only a two-dollar bill,</span>
   <span id="f000160">which he returned to his vest pocket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“I must attend to this at once,</span>
   <span id="f000162">Lydia,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000163">“Kindly get me my umbrella and I will go downtown immediately.</span>
   <span id="f000164">The congressman from our district,</span>
   <span id="f000165">General Fulghum,</span>
   <span id="f000166">assured me some days ago that he would use his influence to get my book published at an early date.</span>
   <span id="f000167">I will go to his hotel at once and see what arrangement has been made.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">With a sad little smile Miss Lydia watched him button his “Father Hubbard” and depart,</span>
   <span id="f000169">pausing at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000170">as he always did,</span>
   <span id="f000171">to bow profoundly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">That evening,</span>
   <span id="f000173">at dark,</span>
   <span id="f000174">he returned.</span>
   <span id="f000175">It seemed that Congressman Fulghum had seen the publisher who had the Major’s manuscript for reading.</span>
   <span id="f000176">That person had said that if the anecdotes,</span>
   <span id="f000177">etc.,</span>
   <span id="f000178">were carefully pruned down about one-half,</span>
   <span id="f000179">in order to eliminate the sectional and class prejudice with which the book was dyed from end to end,</span>
   <span id="f000180">he might consider its publication.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">The Major was in a white heat of anger,</span>
   <span id="f000182">but regained his equanimity,</span>
   <span id="f000183">according to his code of manners,</span>
   <span id="f000184">as soon as he was in Miss Lydia’s presence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“We must have money,” said Miss Lydia,</span>
   <span id="f000186">with a little wrinkle above her nose.</span>
   <span id="f000187">“Give me the two dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and I will telegraph to Uncle Ralph for some to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">The Major drew a small envelope from his upper vest pocket and tossed it on the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“Perhaps it was injudicious,” he said mildly,</span>
   <span id="f000191">“but the sum was so merely nominal that I bought tickets to the theater to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000192">It’s a new war drama,</span>
   <span id="f000193">Lydia.</span>
   <span id="f000194">I thought you would be pleased to witness its first production in Washington.</span>
   <span id="f000195">I am told that the South has very fair treatment in the play.</span>
   <span id="f000196">I confess I should like to see the performance myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">Miss Lydia threw up her hands in silent despair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000199">as the tickets were bought,</span>
   <span id="f000200">they might as well be used.</span>
   <span id="f000201">So that evening,</span>
   <span id="f000202">as they sat in the theater listening to the lively overture,</span>
   <span id="f000203">even Miss Lydia was minded to relegate their troubles,</span>
   <span id="f000204">for the hour,</span>
   <span id="f000205">to second place.</span>
   <span id="f000206">The Major,</span>
   <span id="f000207">in spotless linen,</span>
   <span id="f000208">with his extraordinary coat showing only where it was closely buttoned,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and his white hair smoothly roached,</span>
   <span id="f000210">looked really fine and distinguished.</span>
   <span id="f000211">The curtain went up on the first act of <em>A Magnolia Flower</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000212">revealing a typical Southern plantation scene.</span>
   <span id="f000213">Major Talbot betrayed some interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000215">see!” exclaimed Miss Lydia,</span>
   <span id="f000216">nudging his arm,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and pointing to her program.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">The Major put on his glasses and read the line in the cast of characters that her fingers indicated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">Col.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Webster Calhoun …</span>
   <span id="f000221">Mr.&#160;Hopkins Hargraves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“It’s our Mr.&#160;Hargraves,” said Miss Lydia.</span>
   <span id="f000223">“It must be his first appearance in what he calls ’the legitimate.’ I’m so glad for him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">Not until the second act did Col.</span>
   <span id="f000225">Webster Calhoun appear upon the stage.</span>
   <span id="f000226">When he made his entry Major Talbot gave an audible sniff,</span>
   <span id="f000227">glared at him,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and seemed to freeze solid.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Miss Lydia uttered a little,</span>
   <span id="f000230">ambiguous squeak and crumpled her program in her hand.</span>
   <span id="f000231">For Colonel Calhoun was made up as nearly resembling Major Talbot as one pea does another.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The long,</span>
   <span id="f000233">thin white hair,</span>
   <span id="f000234">curly at the ends,</span>
   <span id="f000235">the aristocratic beak of a nose,</span>
   <span id="f000236">the crumpled,</span>
   <span id="f000237">wide,</span>
   <span id="f000238">raveling shirt front,</span>
   <span id="f000239">the string tie,</span>
   <span id="f000240">with the bow nearly under one ear,</span>
   <span id="f000241">were almost exactly duplicated.</span>
   <span id="f000242">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000243">to clinch the imitation,</span>
   <span id="f000244">he wore the twin to the Major’s supposed to be unparalleled coat.</span>
   <span id="f000245">High-collared,</span>
   <span id="f000246">baggy,</span>
   <span id="f000247">empire-waisted,</span>
   <span id="f000248">ample-skirted,</span>
   <span id="f000249">hanging a foot lower in front than behind,</span>
   <span id="f000250">the garment could have been designed from no other pattern.</span>
   <span id="f000251">From then on,</span>
   <span id="f000252">the Major and Miss Lydia sat bewitched,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and saw the counterfeit presentment of a haughty Talbot “dragged,” as the Major afterward expressed it,</span>
   <span id="f000254">“through the slanderous mire of a corrupt stage.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">Mr.&#160;Hargraves had used his opportunities well.</span>
   <span id="f000256">He had caught the Major’s little idiosyncrasies of speech,</span>
   <span id="f000257">accent,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and intonation and his pompous courtliness to perfection – exaggerating all to the purpose of the stage.</span>
   <span id="f000259">When he performed that marvelous bow that the Major fondly imagined to be the pink of all salutations,</span>
   <span id="f000260">the audience sent forth a sudden round of hearty applause.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">Miss Lydia sat immovable,</span>
   <span id="f000262">not daring to glance toward her father.</span>
   <span id="f000263">Sometimes her hand next to him would be laid against her cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000264">as if to conceal the smile which,</span>
   <span id="f000265">in spite of her disapproval,</span>
   <span id="f000266">she could not entirely suppress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">The culmination of Hargraves audacious imitation took place in the third act.</span>
   <span id="f000268">The scene is where Colonel Calhoun entertains a few of the neighboring planters in his “den.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">Standing at a table in the center of the stage,</span>
   <span id="f000270">with his friends grouped about him,</span>
   <span id="f000271">he delivers that inimitable,</span>
   <span id="f000272">rambling character monologue so famous in <em>A Magnolia Flower</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000273">at the same time that he deftly makes juleps for the party.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">Major Talbot,</span>
   <span id="f000275">sitting quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000276">but white with indignation,</span>
   <span id="f000277">heard his best stories retold,</span>
   <span id="f000278">his pet theories and hobbies advanced and expanded,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and the dream of the <em>Anecdotes and Reminiscences</em> served,</span>
   <span id="f000280">exaggerated and garbled.</span>
   <span id="f000281">His favorite narrative – that of his duel with Rathbone Culbertson – was not omitted,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and it was delivered with more fire,</span>
   <span id="f000283">egotism,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and gusto than the Major himself put into it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">The monologue concluded with a quaint,</span>
   <span id="f000286">delicious,</span>
   <span id="f000287">witty little lecture on the art of concocting a julep,</span>
   <span id="f000288">illustrated by the act.</span>
   <span id="f000289">Here Major Talbot’s delicate but showy science was reproduced to a hair’s breadth – from his dainty handling of the fragrant weed – “the one-thousandth part of a grain too much pressure,</span>
   <span id="f000290">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and you extract the bitterness,</span>
   <span id="f000292">instead of the aroma,</span>
   <span id="f000293">of this heaven-bestowed plant” – to his solicitous selection of the oaten straws.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">At the close of the scene the audience raised a tumultuous roar of appreciation.</span>
   <span id="f000295">The portrayal of the type was so exact,</span>
   <span id="f000296">so sure and thorough,</span>
   <span id="f000297">that the leading characters in the play were forgotten.</span>
   <span id="f000298">After repeated calls,</span>
   <span id="f000299">Hargraves came before the curtain and bowed,</span>
   <span id="f000300">his rather boyish face bright and flushed with the knowledge of success.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">At last Miss Lydia turned and looked at the Major.</span>
   <span id="f000302">His thin nostrils were working like the gills of a fish.</span>
   <span id="f000303">He laid both shaking hands upon the arms of his chair to rise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“We will go,</span>
   <span id="f000305">Lydia,” he said chokingly.</span>
   <span id="f000306">“This is an abominable – desecration.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">Before he could rise,</span>
   <span id="f000308">she pulled him back into his seat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“We will stay it out,” she declared.</span>
   <span id="f000310">“Do you want to advertise the copy by exhibiting the original coat?” So they remained to the end.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">Hargraves’s success must have kept him up late that night,</span>
   <span id="f000312">for neither at the breakfast nor at the dinner table did he appear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">About three in the afternoon he tapped at the door of Major Talbot’s study.</span>
   <span id="f000314">The Major opened it,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and Hargraves walked in with his hands full of the morning papers – too full of his triumph to notice anything unusual in the Major’s demeanor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“I put it all over ’em last night,</span>
   <span id="f000317">Major,” he began exultantly.</span>
   <span id="f000318">"I had my inning,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and,</span>
   <span id="f000320">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000321">scored.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Here’s what <em>The Post</em> says:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">’His conception and portrayal of the old-time Southern colonel,</span>
   <span id="f000324">with his absurd grandiloquence,</span>
   <span id="f000325">his eccentric garb,</span>
   <span id="f000326">his quaint idioms and phrases,</span>
   <span id="f000327">his motheaten pride of family,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and his really kind heart,</span>
   <span id="f000329">fastidious sense of honor,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and lovable simplicity,</span>
   <span id="f000331">is the best delineation of a character role on the boards to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000332">The coat worn by Colonel Calhoun is itself nothing less than an evolution of genius.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Mr.&#160;Hargraves has captured his public.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“How does that sound,</span>
   <span id="f000335">Major,</span>
   <span id="f000336">for a first-nighter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“I had the honor” – the Major’s voice sounded ominously frigid – “of witnessing your very remarkable performance,</span>
   <span id="f000338">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000339">last night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">Hargraves looked disconcerted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">“You were there?</span>
   <span id="f000342">I didn’t know you ever – I didn’t know you cared for the theater.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000344">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000345">Major Talbot,” he exclaimed frankly,</span>
   <span id="f000346">“don’t you be offended.</span>
   <span id="f000347">I admit I did get a lot of pointers from you that helped out wonderfully in the part.</span>
   <span id="f000348">But it’s a type,</span>
   <span id="f000349">you know – not individual.</span>
   <span id="f000350">The way the audience caught on shows that.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Half the patrons of that theater are Southerners.</span>
   <span id="f000352">They recognized it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">“Mr.&#160;Hargraves,” said the Major,</span>
   <span id="f000354">who had remained standing,</span>
   <span id="f000355">“you have put upon me an unpardonable insult.</span>
   <span id="f000356">You have burlesqued my person,</span>
   <span id="f000357">grossly betrayed my confidence,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and misused my hospitality.</span>
   <span id="f000359">If I thought you possessed the faintest conception of what is the sign manual of a gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000360">or what is due one,</span>
   <span id="f000361">I would call you out,</span>
   <span id="f000362">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000363">old as I am.</span>
   <span id="f000364">I will ask you to leave the room,</span>
   <span id="f000365">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">The actor appeared to be slightly bewildered,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and seemed hardly to take in the full meaning of the old gentleman’s words.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“I am truly sorry you took offense,” he said regretfully.</span>
   <span id="f000369">“Up here we don’t look at things just as you people do.</span>
   <span id="f000370">I know men who would buy out half the house to have their personality put on the stage so the public would recognize it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“They are not from Alabama,</span>
   <span id="f000372">sir,” said the Major haughtily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">Perhaps not.</span>
   <span id="f000374">I have a pretty good memory,</span>
   <span id="f000375">Major;</span>
   <span id="f000376">let me quote a few lines from your book.</span>
   <span id="f000377">In response to a toast at a banquet given in – Milledgeville,</span>
   <span id="f000378">I believe – you uttered,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and intend to have printed,</span>
   <span id="f000380">these words:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">’The Northern man is utterly without sentiment or warmth except in so far as the feelings may be turned to his own commercial profit.</span>
   <span id="f000382">He will suffer without resentment any imputation cast upon the honor of himself or his loved ones that does not bear with it the consequence of pecuniary loss.</span>
   <span id="f000383">In his charity,</span>
   <span id="f000384">he gives with a liberal hand;</span>
   <span id="f000385">but it must be heralded with the trumpet and chronicled in brass.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">“Do you think that picture is fairer than the one you saw of Colonel Calhoun last night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“The description,” said the Major,</span>
   <span id="f000388">frowning,</span>
   <span id="f000389">“is – not without grounds.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Some exag – latitude must be allowed in public speaking.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“And in public acting,” replied Hargraves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“That is not the point,” persisted the Major,</span>
   <span id="f000393">unrelenting.</span>
   <span id="f000394">“It was a personal caricature.</span>
   <span id="f000395">I positively decline to overlook it,</span>
   <span id="f000396">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“Major Talbot,” said Hargraves,</span>
   <span id="f000398">with a winning smile,</span>
   <span id="f000399">“I wish you would understand me.</span>
   <span id="f000400">I want you to know that I never dreamed of insulting you.</span>
   <span id="f000401">In my profession,</span>
   <span id="f000402">all life belongs to me.</span>
   <span id="f000403">I take what I want,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and what I can,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and return it over the footlights.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000407">if you will,</span>
   <span id="f000408">let’s let it go at that.</span>
   <span id="f000409">I came in to see you about something else.</span>
   <span id="f000410">We’ve been pretty good friends for some months,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and I’m going to take the risk of offending you again.</span>
   <span id="f000412">I know you are hard up for money – never mind how I found out,</span>
   <span id="f000413">a boarding house is no place to keep such matters secret – and I want you to let me help you out of the pinch.</span>
   <span id="f000414">I’ve been there often enough myself.</span>
   <span id="f000415">I’ve been getting a fair salary all the season,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and I’ve saved some money.</span>
   <span id="f000417">You’re welcome to a couple hundred – or even more – until you get – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“Stop!” commanded the Major,</span>
   <span id="f000419">with his arm outstretched.</span>
   <span id="f000420">“It seems that my book didn’t lie,</span>
   <span id="f000421">after all.</span>
   <span id="f000422">You think your money salve will heal all the hurts of honor.</span>
   <span id="f000423">Under no circumstances would I accept a loan from a casual acquaintance;</span>
   <span id="f000424">and as to you,</span>
   <span id="f000425">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000426">I would starve before I would consider your insulting offer of a financial adjustment of the circumstances we have discussed.</span>
   <span id="f000427">I beg to repeat my request relative to your quitting the apartment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">Hargraves took his departure without another word.</span>
   <span id="f000429">He also left the house the same day,</span>
   <span id="f000430">moving,</span>
   <span id="f000431">as Mrs.&#160;Vardeman explained at the supper table,</span>
   <span id="f000432">nearer the vicinity of the downtown theater,</span>
   <span id="f000433">where <em>A Magnolia Flower</em> was booked for a week’s run.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">Critical was the situation with Major Talbot and Miss Lydia.</span>
   <span id="f000435">There was no one in Washington to whom the Major’s scruples allowed him to apply for a loan.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Miss Lydia wrote a letter to Uncle Ralph,</span>
   <span id="f000437">but it was doubtful whether that relative’s constricted affairs would permit him to furnish help.</span>
   <span id="f000438">The Major was forced to make an apologetic address to Mrs.&#160;Vardeman regarding the delayed payment for board,</span>
   <span id="f000439">referring to “delinquent rentals” and “delayed remittances” in a rather confused strain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">Deliverance came from an entirely unexpected source.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">Late one afternoon the door maid came up and announced an old colored man who wanted to see Major Talbot.</span>
   <span id="f000442">The Major asked that he be sent up to his study.</span>
   <span id="f000443">Soon an old darkey appeared in the doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000444">with his hat in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000445">bowing,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and scraping with one clumsy foot.</span>
   <span id="f000447">He was quite decently dressed in a baggy suit of black.</span>
   <span id="f000448">His big,</span>
   <span id="f000449">coarse shoes shone with a metallic luster suggestive of stove polish.</span>
   <span id="f000450">His bushy wool was gray – almost white.</span>
   <span id="f000451">After middle life,</span>
   <span id="f000452">it is difficult to estimate the age of a negro.</span>
   <span id="f000453">This one might have seen as many years as had Major Talbot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“I be bound you don’t know me,</span>
   <span id="f000455">Mars’ Pendleton,” were his first words.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">The Major rose and came forward at the old,</span>
   <span id="f000457">familiar style of address.</span>
   <span id="f000458">It was one of the old plantation darkeys without a doubt;</span>
   <span id="f000459">but they had been widely scattered,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and he could not recall the voice or face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“I don’t believe I do,” he said kindly – “unless you will assist my memory.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">“Don’t you ’member Cindy’s Mose,</span>
   <span id="f000463">Mars’ Pendleton,</span>
   <span id="f000464">what ’migrated ’mediately after de war?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“Wait a moment,” said the Major,</span>
   <span id="f000466">rubbing his forehead with the tips of his fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000467">He loved to recall everything connected with those beloved days.</span>
   <span id="f000468">“Cindy’s Mose,” he reflected.</span>
   <span id="f000469">“You worked among the horses – breaking the colts.</span>
   <span id="f000470">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000471">I remember now.</span>
   <span id="f000472">After the surrender,</span>
   <span id="f000473">you took the name of – don’t prompt me – Mitchell,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and went to the West – to Nebraska.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“Yassir,</span>
   <span id="f000476">yassir,” – the old man’s face stretched with a delighted grin – “dat’s him,</span>
   <span id="f000477">dat’s it.</span>
   <span id="f000478">Newbraska.</span>
   <span id="f000479">Dat’s me – Mose Mitchell.</span>
   <span id="f000480">Old Uncle Mose Mitchell,</span>
   <span id="f000481">dey calls me now.</span>
   <span id="f000482">Old mars’,</span>
   <span id="f000483">your pa,</span>
   <span id="f000484">gimme a pah of dem mule colts when I lef’ fur to staht me goin’ with.</span>
   <span id="f000485">You ’member dem colts,</span>
   <span id="f000486">Mars’ Pendleton?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“I don’t seem to recall the colts,” said the Major.</span>
   <span id="f000488">“You know.</span>
   <span id="f000489">I was married the first year of the war and living at the old Follinsbee place.</span>
   <span id="f000490">But sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000491">sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000492">Uncle Mose.</span>
   <span id="f000493">I’m glad to see you.</span>
   <span id="f000494">I hope you have prospered.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">Uncle Mose took a chair and laid his hat carefully on the floor beside it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">Yessir;</span>
   <span id="f000497">of late I done mouty famous.</span>
   <span id="f000498">When I first got to Newbraska,</span>
   <span id="f000499">dey folks come all roun’ me to see dem mule colts.</span>
   <span id="f000500">Dey ain’t see no mules like dem in Newbraska.</span>
   <span id="f000501">I sold dem mules for three hundred dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000502">Yessir – three hundred.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">“Den I open a blacksmith shop,</span>
   <span id="f000504">suh,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and made some money and bought some lan’.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Me and my old ’oman done raised up seb’m chillun,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and all doin’ well ’cept two of ’em what died.</span>
   <span id="f000508">Fo’ year ago a railroad come along and staht a town slam ag’inst my lan’,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and,</span>
   <span id="f000510">suh,</span>
   <span id="f000511">Mars’ Pendleton,</span>
   <span id="f000512">Uncle Mose am worth leb’m thousand dollars in money,</span>
   <span id="f000513">property,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and lan’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">“I’m glad to hear it,” said the Major heartily.</span>
   <span id="f000516">“Glad to hear it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">“And dat little baby of yo’n,</span>
   <span id="f000518">Mars’ Pendleton – one what you name Miss Lyddy – I be bound dat little tad done growed up tell nobody wouldn’t know her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">The Major stepped to the door and called:</span>
   <span id="f000520">“Lydie,</span>
   <span id="f000521">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000522">will you come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">Miss Lydia,</span>
   <span id="f000524">looking quite grown up and a little worried,</span>
   <span id="f000525">came in from her room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“Dar,</span>
   <span id="f000527">now!</span>
   <span id="f000528">What’d I tell you?</span>
   <span id="f000529">I knowed dat baby done be plum growed up.</span>
   <span id="f000530">You don’t ’member Uncle Mose,</span>
   <span id="f000531">child?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“This is Aunt Cindy’s Mose,</span>
   <span id="f000533">Lydia,” explained the Major.</span>
   <span id="f000534">“He left Sunnymead for the West when you were two years old.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“Well,” said Miss Lydia,</span>
   <span id="f000536">“I can hardly be expected to remember you,</span>
   <span id="f000537">Uncle Mose,</span>
   <span id="f000538">at that age.</span>
   <span id="f000539">And,</span>
   <span id="f000540">as you say,</span>
   <span id="f000541">I’m ’plum growed up,’ and was a blessed long time ago.</span>
   <span id="f000542">But I’m glad to see you,</span>
   <span id="f000543">even if I can’t remember you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">And she was.</span>
   <span id="f000545">And so was the Major.</span>
   <span id="f000546">Something alive and tangible had come to link them with the happy past.</span>
   <span id="f000547">The three sat and talked over the olden times,</span>
   <span id="f000548">the Major and Uncle Mose correcting or prompting each other as they reviewed the plantation scenes and days.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">The Major inquired what the old man was doing so far from his home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">“Uncle Mose am a delicate,” he explained,</span>
   <span id="f000551">“to de grand Baptis’ convention in dis city.</span>
   <span id="f000552">I never preached none,</span>
   <span id="f000553">but bein’ a residin’ elder in de church,</span>
   <span id="f000554">and able fur to pay my own expenses,</span>
   <span id="f000555">dey sent me along.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">“And how did you know we were in Washington?” inquired Miss Lydia.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">Dey’s a cullud man works in de hotel whar I stops,</span>
   <span id="f000558">what comes from Mobile.</span>
   <span id="f000559">He told me he seen Mars’ Pendleton comin’ outen dish here house one mawnin’.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">“What I come fur,” continued Uncle Mose,</span>
   <span id="f000561">reaching into his pocket – "besides de sight of home folks – was to pay Mars’ Pendleton what I owes him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">“Yessir – three hundred dollars.” He handed the Major a roll of bills.</span>
   <span id="f000563">“When I lef’ old mars’ says:</span>
   <span id="f000564">’Take dem mule colts,</span>
   <span id="f000565">Mose,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and,</span>
   <span id="f000567">if it be so you gits able,</span>
   <span id="f000568">pay fur ’em.’ Yessir – dem was his words.</span>
   <span id="f000569">De war had done lef’ old mars’ po’ hisself.</span>
   <span id="f000570">Old mars’ bein’ long ago dead,</span>
   <span id="f000571">de debt descends to Mars’ Pendleton.</span>
   <span id="f000572">Three hundred dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000573">Uncle Mose is plenty able to pay now.</span>
   <span id="f000574">When dat railroad buy my lan’ I laid off to pay fur dem mules.</span>
   <span id="f000575">Count de money,</span>
   <span id="f000576">Mars’ Pendleton.</span>
   <span id="f000577">Dat’s what I sold dem mules fur.</span>
   <span id="f000578">Yessir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">Tears were in Major Talbot’s eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000580">He took Uncle Mose’s hand and laid his other upon his shoulder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">“Dear,</span>
   <span id="f000582">faithful,</span>
   <span id="f000583">old servitor,” he said in an unsteady voice,</span>
   <span id="f000584">“I don’t mind saying to you that ’Mars’ Pendleton spent his last dollar in the world a week ago.</span>
   <span id="f000585">We will accept this money,</span>
   <span id="f000586">Uncle Mose,</span>
   <span id="f000587">since,</span>
   <span id="f000588">in a way,</span>
   <span id="f000589">it is a sort of payment,</span>
   <span id="f000590">as well as a token of the loyalty and devotion of the old regime.</span>
   <span id="f000591">Lydia,</span>
   <span id="f000592">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000593">take the money.</span>
   <span id="f000594">You are better fitted than I to manage its expenditure.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">“Take it,</span>
   <span id="f000596">honey,” said Uncle Mose.</span>
   <span id="f000597">“Hit belongs to you.</span>
   <span id="f000598">Hit’s Talbot money.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">After Uncle Mose had gone,</span>
   <span id="f000600">Miss Lydia had a good cry – for joy;</span>
   <span id="f000601">and the Major turned his face to a corner,</span>
   <span id="f000602">and smoked his clay pipe volcanically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">The succeeding days saw the Talbots restored to peace and ease.</span>
   <span id="f000604">Miss Lydia’s face lost its worried look.</span>
   <span id="f000605">The major appeared in a new frock coat,</span>
   <span id="f000606">in which he looked like a wax figure personifying the memory of his golden age.</span>
   <span id="f000607">Another publisher who read the manuscript of the <em>Anecdotes and Reminiscences</em> thought that,</span>
   <span id="f000608">with a little retouching and toning down of the high lights,</span>
   <span id="f000609">he could make a really bright and salable volume of it.</span>
   <span id="f000610">Altogether,</span>
   <span id="f000611">the situation was comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000612">and not without the touch of hope that is often sweeter than arrived blessings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">One day,</span>
   <span id="f000614">about a week after their piece of good luck,</span>
   <span id="f000615">a maid brought a letter for Miss Lydia to her room.</span>
   <span id="f000616">The postmark showed that it was from New York.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Not knowing any one there,</span>
   <span id="f000618">Miss Lydia,</span>
   <span id="f000619">in a mild flutter of wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000620">sat down by her table and opened the letter with her scissors.</span>
   <span id="f000621">This was what she read:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000622">DEAR MISS TALBOT:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">I thought you might be glad to learn of my good fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000624">I have received and accepted an offer of two hundred dollars per week by a New York stock company to play Colonel Calhoun in <em>A Magnolia Flower</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">There is something else I wanted you to know.</span>
   <span id="f000626">I guess you’d better not tell Major Talbot.</span>
   <span id="f000627">I was anxious to make him some amends for the great help he was to me in studying the part,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and for the bad humor he was in about it.</span>
   <span id="f000629">He refused to let me,</span>
   <span id="f000630">so I did it anyhow.</span>
   <span id="f000631">I could easily spare the three hundred.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000632">Sincerely yours,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000633">H.</span>
   <span id="f000634">HOPKINS HARGRAVES.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">P.S.</span>
   <span id="f000636">How did I play Uncle Mose?</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000637">Major Talbot,</span>
   <span id="f000638">passing through the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000639">saw Miss Lydia’s door open and stopped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">“Any mail for us this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000641">Lydia,</span>
   <span id="f000642">dear?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">Miss Lydia slid the letter beneath a fold of her dress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">“<em>The Mobile Chronicle</em> came,” she said promptly.</span>
   <span id="f000645">“It’s on the table in your study.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

