<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>mb</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Flappers and Philosophers</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Head and Shoulders</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">In 1915 Horace Tarbox was thirteen years old.</span>
   <span id="f000009">In that year he took the examinations for entrance to Princeton University and received the Grade A – excellent – in Cæsar,</span>
   <span id="f000010">Cicero,</span>
   <span id="f000011">Vergil,</span>
   <span id="f000012">Xenophon,</span>
   <span id="f000013">Homer,</span>
   <span id="f000014">Algebra,</span>
   <span id="f000015">Plane Geometry,</span>
   <span id="f000016">Solid Geometry,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and Chemistry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">Two years later while George M.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Cohan was composing “Over There,” Horace was leading the sophomore class by several lengths and digging out theses on “The Syllogism as an Obsolete Scholastic Form,” and during the battle of Château-Thierry he was sitting at his desk deciding whether or not to wait until his seventeenth birthday before beginning his series of essays on “The Pragmatic Bias of the New Realists.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">After a while some newsboy told him that the war was over,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and he was glad,</span>
   <span id="f000022">because it meant that Peat Brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000023">publishers,</span>
   <span id="f000024">would get out their new edition of “Spinoza’s Improvement of the Understanding.” Wars were all very well in their way,</span>
   <span id="f000025">made young men self-reliant or something but Horace felt that he could never forgive the President for allowing a brass band to play under his window the night of the false armistice,</span>
   <span id="f000026">causing him to leave three important sentences out of his thesis on “German Idealism.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">The next year he went up to Yale to take his degree as Master of Arts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">He was seventeen then,</span>
   <span id="f000029">tall and slender,</span>
   <span id="f000030">with near-sighted gray eyes and an air of keeping himself utterly detached from the mere words he let drop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“I never feel as though I’m talking to him,” expostulated Professor Dillinger to a sympathetic colleague.</span>
   <span id="f000032">“He makes me feel as though I were talking to his representative.</span>
   <span id="f000033">I always expect him to say:</span>
   <span id="f000034">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000035">I’ll ask myself and find out.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000037">just as nonchalantly as though Horace Tarbox had been Mr.&#160;Beef the butcher or Mr.&#160;Hat the haberdasher,</span>
   <span id="f000038">life reached in,</span>
   <span id="f000039">seized him,</span>
   <span id="f000040">handled him,</span>
   <span id="f000041">stretched him,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and unrolled him like a piece of Irish lace on a Saturday-afternoon bargain-counter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">To move in the literary fashion I should say that this was all because when way back in colonial days the hardy pioneers had come to a bald place in Connecticut and asked of each other,</span>
   <span id="f000044">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000045">what shall we build here?” the hardiest one among ’em had answered:</span>
   <span id="f000046">“Let’s build a town where theatrical managers can try out musical comedies!” How afterward they founded Yale College there,</span>
   <span id="f000047">to try the musical comedies on,</span>
   <span id="f000048">is a story every one knows.</span>
   <span id="f000049">At any rate one December,</span>
   <span id="f000050">“Home James” opened at the Shubert,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and all the students encored Marcia Meadow,</span>
   <span id="f000052">who sang a song about the Blundering Blimp in the first act and did a shaky,</span>
   <span id="f000053">shivery,</span>
   <span id="f000054">celebrated dance in the last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">Marcia was nineteen.</span>
   <span id="f000056">She didn’t have wings,</span>
   <span id="f000057">but audiences agreed generally that she didn’t need them.</span>
   <span id="f000058">She was a blonde by natural pigment,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and she wore no paint on the streets at high noon.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Outside of that she was no better than most women.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">It was Charlie Moon who promised her five thousand Pall Malls if she would pay a call on Horace Tarbox,</span>
   <span id="f000062">prodigy extraordinary.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Charlie was a senior in Sheffield,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and he and Horace were first cousins.</span>
   <span id="f000065">They liked and pitied each other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">Horace had been particularly busy that night.</span>
   <span id="f000067">The failure of the Frenchman Laurier to appreciate the significance of the new realists was preying on his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000068">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000069">his only reaction to a low,</span>
   <span id="f000070">clear-cut rap at his study was to make him speculate as to whether any rap would have actual existence without an ear there to hear it.</span>
   <span id="f000071">He fancied he was verging more and more toward pragmatism.</span>
   <span id="f000072">But at that moment,</span>
   <span id="f000073">though he did not know it,</span>
   <span id="f000074">he was verging with astounding rapidity toward something quite different.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">The rap sounded – three seconds leaked by – the rap sounded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“Come in,” muttered Horace automatically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">He heard the door open and then close,</span>
   <span id="f000078">but,</span>
   <span id="f000079">bent over his book in the big armchair before the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000080">he did not look up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“Leave it on the bed in the other room,” he said absently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">“Leave what on the bed in the other room?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">Marcia Meadow had to talk her songs,</span>
   <span id="f000084">but her speaking voice was like byplay on a harp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“The laundry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“I can’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">Horace stirred impatiently in his chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“Why can’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000090">because I haven’t got it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">“Hm!” he replied testily.</span>
   <span id="f000092">“Suppose you go back and get it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">Across the fire from Horace was another easychair.</span>
   <span id="f000094">He was accustomed to change to it in the course of an evening by way of exercise and variety.</span>
   <span id="f000095">One chair he called Berkeley,</span>
   <span id="f000096">the other he called Hume.</span>
   <span id="f000097">He suddenly heard a sound as of a rustling,</span>
   <span id="f000098">diaphanous form sinking into Hume.</span>
   <span id="f000099">He glanced up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“Well,” said Marcia with the sweet smile she used in Act Two</span>
   <span id="f000101">(“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000102">so the Duke liked my dancing!”)</span>
   <span id="f000103">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000104">Omar Khayyam,</span>
   <span id="f000105">here I am beside you singing in the wilderness.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">Horace stared at her dazedly.</span>
   <span id="f000107">The momentary suspicion came to him that she existed there only as a phantom of his imagination.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Women didn’t come into men’s rooms and sink into men’s Humes.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Women brought laundry and took your seat in the street-car and married you later on when you were old enough to know fetters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">This woman had clearly materialized out of Hume.</span>
   <span id="f000111">The very froth of her brown gauzy dress was art emanation from Hume’s leather arm there!</span>
   <span id="f000112">If he looked long enough he would see Hume right through her and then he would be alone again in the room.</span>
   <span id="f000113">He passed his fist across his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000114">He really must take up those trapeze exercises again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“For Pete’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000116">don’t look so critical!” objected the emanation pleasantly.</span>
   <span id="f000117">“I feel as if you were going to wish me away with that patent dome of yours.</span>
   <span id="f000118">And then there wouldn’t be anything left of me except my shadow in your eyes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">Horace coughed.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Coughing was one of his two gestures.</span>
   <span id="f000121">When he talked you forgot he had a body at all.</span>
   <span id="f000122">It was like hearing a phonograph record by a singer who had been dead a long time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“What do you want?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“I want them letters,” whined Marcia melodramatically – “them letters of mine you bought from my grandsire in 1881.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">Horace considered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“I haven’t got your letters,” he said evenly.</span>
   <span id="f000127">“I am only seventeen years old.</span>
   <span id="f000128">My father was not born until March 3,</span>
   <span id="f000129">1879.</span>
   <span id="f000130">You evidently have me confused with some one else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“You’re only seventeen?” repeated March suspiciously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">“Only seventeen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“I knew a girl,” said Marcia reminiscently,</span>
   <span id="f000134">“who went on the ten-twenty-thirty when she was sixteen.</span>
   <span id="f000135">She was so stuck on herself that she could never say ’sixteen’ without putting the ’only’ before it.</span>
   <span id="f000136">We got to calling her ’Only Jessie.’ And she’s just where she was when she started – only worse.</span>
   <span id="f000137">’Only’ is a bad habit,</span>
   <span id="f000138">Omar – it sounds like an alibi.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“My name is not Omar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“I know,” agreed Marcia,</span>
   <span id="f000141">nodding – “your name’s Horace.</span>
   <span id="f000142">I just call you Omar because you remind me of a smoked cigarette.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“And I haven’t your letters.</span>
   <span id="f000144">I doubt if I’ve ever met your grandfather.</span>
   <span id="f000145">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000146">I think it very improbable that you yourself were alive in 1881.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">Marcia stared at him in wonder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“Me – 1881?</span>
   <span id="f000149">Why sure!</span>
   <span id="f000150">I was second-line stuff when the Florodora Sextette was still in the convent.</span>
   <span id="f000151">I was the original nurse to Mrs.&#160;Sol Smith’s Juliette.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000153">Omar,</span>
   <span id="f000154">I was a canteen singer during the War of 1812.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">Horace’s mind made a sudden successful leap,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and he grinned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Did Charlie Moon put you up to this?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">Marcia regarded him inscrutably.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“Who’s Charlie Moon?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“Small – wide nostrils – big ears.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">She grew several inches and sniffed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">I’m not in the habit of noticing my friends’ nostrils.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“Then it was Charlie?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">Marcia bit her lip – and then yawned.</span>
   <span id="f000165">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000166">let’s change the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000167">Omar.</span>
   <span id="f000168">I’ll pull a snore in this chair in a minute.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“Yes,” replied Horace gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000170">“Hume has often been considered soporific – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“Who’s your friend – and will he die?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">Then of a sudden Horace Tarbox rose slenderly and began to pace the room with his hands in his pockets.</span>
   <span id="f000173">This was his other gesture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“I don’t care for this,” he said as if he were talking to himself – “at all.</span>
   <span id="f000175">Not that I mind your being here – I don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000176">You’re quite a pretty little thing,</span>
   <span id="f000177">but I don’t like Charlie Moon’s sending you up here.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Am I a laboratory experiment on which the janitors as well as the chemists can make experiments?</span>
   <span id="f000179">Is my intellectual development humorous in any way?</span>
   <span id="f000180">Do I look like the pictures of the little Boston boy in the comic magazines?</span>
   <span id="f000181">Has that callow ass,</span>
   <span id="f000182">Moon,</span>
   <span id="f000183">with his eternal tales about his week in Paris,</span>
   <span id="f000184">any right to – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“No,” interrupted Marcia emphatically.</span>
   <span id="f000186">“And you’re a sweet boy.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Come here and kiss me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">Horace stopped quickly in front of her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“Why do you want me to kiss you?” he asked intently,</span>
   <span id="f000190">“Do you just go round kissing people?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000192">yes,” admitted Marcia,</span>
   <span id="f000193">unruffled.</span>
   <span id="f000194">“’At’s all life is.</span>
   <span id="f000195">Just going round kissing people.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Well,” replied Horace emphatically,</span>
   <span id="f000197">“I must say your ideas are horribly garbled!</span>
   <span id="f000198">In the first place life isn’t just that,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and in the second place.</span>
   <span id="f000200">I won’t kiss you.</span>
   <span id="f000201">It might get to be a habit and I can’t get rid of habits.</span>
   <span id="f000202">This year I’ve got in the habit of lolling in bed until seven-thirty – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">Marcia nodded understandingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“Do you ever have any fun?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“What do you mean by fun?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“See here,” said Marcia sternly,</span>
   <span id="f000207">“I like you,</span>
   <span id="f000208">Omar,</span>
   <span id="f000209">but I wish you’d talk as if you had a line on what you were saying.</span>
   <span id="f000210">You sound as if you were gargling a lot of words in your mouth and lost a bet every time you spilled a few.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I asked you if you ever had any fun.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">Horace shook his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“Later,</span>
   <span id="f000214">perhaps,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000215">“You see I’m a plan.</span>
   <span id="f000216">I’m an experiment.</span>
   <span id="f000217">I don’t say that I don’t get tired of it sometimes – I do.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Yet – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000219">I can’t explain!</span>
   <span id="f000220">But what you and Charlie Moon call fun wouldn’t be fun to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">“Please explain.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">Horace stared at her,</span>
   <span id="f000223">started to speak and then,</span>
   <span id="f000224">changing his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000225">resumed his walk.</span>
   <span id="f000226">After an unsuccessful attempt to determine whether or not he was looking at her Marcia smiled at him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“Please explain.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">Horace turned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“If I do,</span>
   <span id="f000230">will you promise to tell Charlie Moon that I wasn’t in?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">“Uh-uh.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000233">then.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Here’s my history:</span>
   <span id="f000235">I was a ’why’ child.</span>
   <span id="f000236">I wanted to see the wheels go round.</span>
   <span id="f000237">My father was a young economics professor at Princeton.</span>
   <span id="f000238">He brought me up on the system of answering every question I asked him to the best of his ability.</span>
   <span id="f000239">My response to that gave him the idea of making an experiment in precocity.</span>
   <span id="f000240">To aid in the massacre I had ear trouble – seven operations between the age of nine and twelve.</span>
   <span id="f000241">Of course this kept me apart from other boys and made me ripe for forcing.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000243">while my generation was laboring through Uncle Remus I was honestly enjoying Catullus in the original.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“I passed off my college examinations when I was thirteen because I couldn’t help it.</span>
   <span id="f000245">My chief associates were professors,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and I took a tremendous pride in knowing that I had a fine intelligence,</span>
   <span id="f000247">for though I was unusually gifted I was not abnormal in other ways.</span>
   <span id="f000248">When I was sixteen I got tired of being a freak;</span>
   <span id="f000249">I decided that some one had made a bad mistake.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Still as I’d gone that far I concluded to finish it up by taking my degree of Master of Arts.</span>
   <span id="f000251">My chief interest in life is the study of modern philosophy.</span>
   <span id="f000252">I am a realist of the School of Anton Laurier – with Bergsonian trimmings – and I’ll be eighteen years old in two months.</span>
   <span id="f000253">That’s all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“Whew!” exclaimed Marcia.</span>
   <span id="f000255">“That’s enough!</span>
   <span id="f000256">You do a neat job with the parts of speech.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">“Satisfied?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000259">you haven’t kissed me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“It’s not in my programme,” demurred Horace.</span>
   <span id="f000261">“Understand that I don’t pretend to be above physical things.</span>
   <span id="f000262">They have their place,</span>
   <span id="f000263">but – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000265">don’t be so darned reasonable!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“I can’t help it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“I hate these slot-machine people.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“I assure you I – ” began Horace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Oh shut up!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">“My own rationality – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“I didn’t say anything about your nationality.</span>
   <span id="f000272">You’re Amuricun,</span>
   <span id="f000273">ar’n’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000276">that’s O.K.</span>
   <span id="f000277">with me.</span>
   <span id="f000278">I got a notion I want to see you do something that isn’t in your highbrow programme.</span>
   <span id="f000279">I want to see if a what-ch-call-em with Brazilian trimmings – that thing you said you were – can be a little human.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">Horace shook his head again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“I won’t kiss you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“My life is blighted,” muttered Marcia tragically.</span>
   <span id="f000283">“I’m a beaten woman.</span>
   <span id="f000284">I’ll go through life without ever having a kiss with Brazilian trimmings.” She sighed.</span>
   <span id="f000285">“Anyways,</span>
   <span id="f000286">Omar,</span>
   <span id="f000287">will you come and see my show?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“What show?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“I’m a wicked actress from ’Home James’!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“Light opera?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“Yes – at a stretch.</span>
   <span id="f000292">One of the characters is a Brazilian rice-planter.</span>
   <span id="f000293">That might interest you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“I saw ’The Bohemian Girl’ once,” reflected Horace aloud.</span>
   <span id="f000295">“I enjoyed it – to some extent – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“Then you’ll come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000298">I’m – I’m – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000300">I know – you’ve got to run down to Brazil for the week-end.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000302">I’d be delighted to come – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">Marcia clapped her hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“Goodyforyou!</span>
   <span id="f000305">I’ll mail you a ticket – Thursday night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000307">I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Good!</span>
   <span id="f000309">Thursday night it is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">She stood up and walking close to him laid both hands on his shoulders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“I like you,</span>
   <span id="f000312">Omar.</span>
   <span id="f000313">I’m sorry I tried to kid you.</span>
   <span id="f000314">I thought you’d be sort of frozen,</span>
   <span id="f000315">but you’re a nice boy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">He eyed her sardonically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“I’m several thousand generations older than you are.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“You carry your age well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">They shook hands gravely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“My name’s Marcia Meadow,” she said emphatically.</span>
   <span id="f000321">“’Member it – Marcia Meadow.</span>
   <span id="f000322">And I won’t tell Charlie Moon you were in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">An instant later as she was skimming down the last flight of stairs three at a time she heard a voice call over the upper banister:</span>
   <span id="f000324">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000325">say – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">She stopped and looked up – made out a vague form leaning over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000328">say!” called the prodigy again.</span>
   <span id="f000329">“Can you hear me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“Here’s your connection Omar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“I hope I haven’t given you the impression that I consider kissing intrinsically irrational.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“Impression?</span>
   <span id="f000333">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000334">you didn’t even give me the kiss!</span>
   <span id="f000335">Never fret – so long.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">Two doors near her opened curiously at the sound of a feminine voice.</span>
   <span id="f000337">A tentative cough sounded from above.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Gathering her skirts,</span>
   <span id="f000339">Marcia dived wildly down the last flight,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and was swallowed up in the murky Connecticut air outside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">Up-stairs Horace paced the floor of his study.</span>
   <span id="f000342">From time to time he glanced toward Berkeley waiting there in suave dark-red reputability,</span>
   <span id="f000343">an open book lying suggestively on his cushions.</span>
   <span id="f000344">And then he found that his circuit of the floor was bringing him each time nearer to Hume.</span>
   <span id="f000345">There was something about Hume that was strangely and inexpressibly different.</span>
   <span id="f000346">The diaphanous form still seemed hovering near,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and had Horace sat there he would have felt as if he were sitting on a lady’s lap.</span>
   <span id="f000348">And though Horace couldn’t have named the quality of difference,</span>
   <span id="f000349">there was such a quality – quite intangible to the speculative mind,</span>
   <span id="f000350">but real,</span>
   <span id="f000351">nevertheless.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Hume was radiating something that in all the two hundred years of his influence he had never radiated before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">Hume was radiating attar of roses.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000354">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000355">On Thursday night Horace Tarbox sat in an aisle seat in the fifth row and witnessed “Home James.” Oddly enough he found that he was enjoying himself.</span>
   <span id="f000356">The cynical students near him were annoyed at his audible appreciation of time-honored jokes in the Hammerstein tradition.</span>
   <span id="f000357">But Horace was waiting with anxiety for Marcia Meadow singing her song about a Jazz-bound Blundering Blimp.</span>
   <span id="f000358">When she did appear,</span>
   <span id="f000359">radiant under a floppity flower-faced hat,</span>
   <span id="f000360">a warm glow settled over him,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and when the song was over he did not join in the storm of applause.</span>
   <span id="f000362">He felt somewhat numb.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">In the intermission after the second act an usher materialized beside him,</span>
   <span id="f000364">demanded to know if he were Mr.&#160;Tarbox,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and then handed him a note written in a round adolescent band.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Horace read it in some confusion,</span>
   <span id="f000367">while the usher lingered with withering patience in the aisle.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000368">Dear Omar:</span>
   <span id="f000369">After the show I always grow an awful hunger.</span>
   <span id="f000370">If you want to satisfy it for me in the Taft Grill just communicate your answer to the big-timber guide that brought this and oblige.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">Your friend,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">Marcia Meadow."</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000373">“Tell her,” – he coughed – “tell her that it will be quite all right.</span>
   <span id="f000374">I’ll meet her in front of the theatre.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">The big-timber guide smiled arrogantly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">“I giss she meant for you to come roun’ t’ the stage door.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“Where – where is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">“Ou’side.</span>
   <span id="f000379">Tunayulef.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Down ee alley.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">“Ou’side.</span>
   <span id="f000383">Turn to y’ left!</span>
   <span id="f000384">Down ee alley!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">The arrogant person withdrew.</span>
   <span id="f000386">A freshman behind Horace snickered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">Then half an hour later,</span>
   <span id="f000388">sitting in the Taft Grill opposite the hair that was yellow by natural pigment,</span>
   <span id="f000389">the prodigy was saying an odd thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">“Do you have to do that dance in the last act?” he was asking earnestly – “I mean,</span>
   <span id="f000391">would they dismiss you if you refused to do it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">Marcia grinned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“It’s fun to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000394">I like to do it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">And then Horace came out with a FAUX PAS.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“I should think you’d detest it,” he remarked succinctly.</span>
   <span id="f000397">“The people behind me were making remarks about your bosom.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">Marcia blushed fiery red.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“I can’t help that,” she said quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000400">“The dance to me is only a sort of acrobatic stunt.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000402">it’s hard enough to do!</span>
   <span id="f000403">I rub liniment into my shoulders for an hour every night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“Do you have – fun while you’re on the stage?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Uh-huh – sure!</span>
   <span id="f000406">I got in the habit of having people look at me,</span>
   <span id="f000407">Omar,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and I like it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">“Hm!” Horace sank into a brownish study.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“How’s the Brazilian trimmings?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“Hm!” repeated Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and then after a pause:</span>
   <span id="f000413">“Where does the play go from here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“New York.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“For how long?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">“All depends.</span>
   <span id="f000417">Winter – maybe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“Oh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“Coming up to lay eyes on me,</span>
   <span id="f000420">Omar,</span>
   <span id="f000421">or aren’t you int’rested?</span>
   <span id="f000422">Not as nice here,</span>
   <span id="f000423">is it,</span>
   <span id="f000424">as it was up in your room?</span>
   <span id="f000425">I wish we was there now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“I feel idiotic in this place,” confessed Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000427">looking round him nervously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">“Too bad!</span>
   <span id="f000429">We got along pretty well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">At this he looked suddenly so melancholy that she changed her tone,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and reaching over patted his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">“Ever take an actress out to supper before?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“No,” said Horace miserably,</span>
   <span id="f000434">“and I never will again.</span>
   <span id="f000435">I don’t know why I came to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Here under all these lights and with all these people laughing and chattering I feel completely out of my sphere.</span>
   <span id="f000437">I don’t know what to talk to you about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">“We’ll talk about me.</span>
   <span id="f000439">We talked about you last time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">“Very well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000442">my name really is Meadow,</span>
   <span id="f000443">but my first name isn’t Marcia – it’s Veronica.</span>
   <span id="f000444">I’m nineteen.</span>
   <span id="f000445">Question – how did the girl make her leap to the footlights?</span>
   <span id="f000446">Answer – she was born in Passaic,</span>
   <span id="f000447">New Jersey,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and up to a year ago she got the right to breathe by pushing Nabiscoes in Marcel’s tea-room in Trenton.</span>
   <span id="f000449">She started going with a guy named Robbins,</span>
   <span id="f000450">a singer in the Trent House cabaret,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and he got her to try a song and dance with him one evening.</span>
   <span id="f000452">In a month we were filling the supper-room every night.</span>
   <span id="f000453">Then we went to New York with meet-my-friend letters thick as a pile of napkins.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“In two days we landed a job at Divinerries’,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and I learned to shimmy from a kid at the Palais Royal.</span>
   <span id="f000456">We stayed at Divinerries’ six months until one night Peter Boyce Wendell,</span>
   <span id="f000457">the columnist,</span>
   <span id="f000458">ate his milk-toast there.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Next morning a poem about Marvellous Marcia came out in his newspaper,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and within two days I had three vaudeville offers and a chance at the Midnight Frolic.</span>
   <span id="f000461">I wrote Wendell a thank-you letter,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and he printed it in his column – said that the style was like Carlyle’s,</span>
   <span id="f000463">only more rugged and that I ought to quit dancing and do North American literature.</span>
   <span id="f000464">This got me a coupla more vaudeville offers and a chance as an ingénue in a regular show.</span>
   <span id="f000465">I took it – and here I am,</span>
   <span id="f000466">Omar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">When she finished they sat for a moment in silence she draping the last skeins of a Welsh rabbit on her fork and waiting for him to speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“Let’s get out of here,” he said suddenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">Marcia’s eyes hardened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">“What’s the idea?</span>
   <span id="f000471">Am I making you sick?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000473">but I don’t like it here.</span>
   <span id="f000474">I don’t like to be sitting here with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">Without another word Marcia signalled for the waiter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">“What’s the check?” she demanded briskly “My part – the rabbit and the ginger ale.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">Horace watched blankly as the waiter figured it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">“See here,” he began,</span>
   <span id="f000479">“I intended to pay for yours too.</span>
   <span id="f000480">You’re my guest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">With a half-sigh Marcia rose from the table and walked from the room.</span>
   <span id="f000482">Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000483">his face a document in bewilderment,</span>
   <span id="f000484">laid a bill down and followed her out,</span>
   <span id="f000485">up the stairs and into the lobby.</span>
   <span id="f000486">He overtook her in front of the elevator and they faced each other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“See here,” he repeated “You’re my guest.</span>
   <span id="f000488">Have I said something to offend you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">After an instant of wonder Marcia’s eyes softened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">“You’re a rude fella!” she said slowly.</span>
   <span id="f000491">“Don’t you know you’re rude?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">“I can’t help it,” said Horace with a directness she found quite disarming.</span>
   <span id="f000493">“You know I like you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000494">“You said you didn’t like being with me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“I didn’t like it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“Why not?” Fire blazed suddenly from the gray forests of his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">“Because I didn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000498">I’ve formed the habit of liking you.</span>
   <span id="f000499">I’ve been thinking of nothing much else for two days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000500">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000501">if you – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">“Wait a minute,” he interrupted.</span>
   <span id="f000503">“I’ve got something to say.</span>
   <span id="f000504">It’s this:</span>
   <span id="f000505">in six weeks I’ll be eighteen years old.</span>
   <span id="f000506">When I’m eighteen years old I’m coming up to New York to see you.</span>
   <span id="f000507">Is there some place in New York where we can go and not have a lot of people in the room?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000508">“Sure!” smiled Marcia.</span>
   <span id="f000509">“You can come up to my ’partment.</span>
   <span id="f000510">Sleep on the couch if you want to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“I can’t sleep on couches,” he said shortly.</span>
   <span id="f000512">“But I want to talk to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000514">sure,” repeated Marcia,</span>
   <span id="f000515">“in my ’partment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">In his excitement Horace put his hands in his pockets.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">“All right – just so I can see you alone.</span>
   <span id="f000518">I want to talk to you as we talked up in my room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">“Honey boy,” cried Marcia,</span>
   <span id="f000520">laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000521">“is it that you want to kiss me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">“Yes,” Horace almost shouted.</span>
   <span id="f000523">“I’ll kiss you if you want me to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">The elevator man was looking at them reproachfully.</span>
   <span id="f000525">Marcia edged toward the grated door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“I’ll drop you a post-card,” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">Horace’s eyes were quite wild.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">“Send me a post-card!</span>
   <span id="f000529">I’ll come up any time after January first.</span>
   <span id="f000530">I’ll be eighteen then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">And as she stepped into the elevator he coughed enigmatically,</span>
   <span id="f000532">yet with a vague challenge,</span>
   <span id="f000533">at the calling,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and walked quickly away.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000535">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000536">He was there again.</span>
   <span id="f000537">She saw him when she took her first glance at the restless Manhattan audience – down in the front row with his head bent a bit forward and his gray eyes fixed on her.</span>
   <span id="f000538">And she knew that to him they were alone together in a world where the high-rouged row of ballet faces and the massed whines of the violins were as imperceivable as powder on a marble Venus.</span>
   <span id="f000539">An instinctive defiance rose within her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“Silly boy!” she said to herself hurriedly,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and she didn’t take her encore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“What do they expect for a hundred a week – perpetual motion?” she grumbled to herself in the wings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">“What’s the trouble?</span>
   <span id="f000544">Marcia?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">“Guy I don’t like down in front.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">During the last act as she waited for her specialty she had an odd attack of stage fright.</span>
   <span id="f000547">She had never sent Horace the promised post-card.</span>
   <span id="f000548">Last night she had pretended not to see him – had hurried from the theatre immediately after her dance to pass a sleepless night in her apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000549">thinking – as she had so often in the last month – of his pale,</span>
   <span id="f000550">rather intent face,</span>
   <span id="f000551">his slim,</span>
   <span id="f000552">boyish fore,</span>
   <span id="f000553">the merciless,</span>
   <span id="f000554">unworldly abstraction that made him charming to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">And now that he had come she felt vaguely sorry – as though an unwonted responsibility was being forced on her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">“Infant prodigy!” she said aloud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">“What?” demanded the negro comedian standing beside her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">“Nothing – just talking about myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">On the stage she felt better.</span>
   <span id="f000560">This was her dance – and she always felt that the way she did it wasn’t suggestive any more than to some men every pretty girl is suggestive.</span>
   <span id="f000561">She made it a stunt.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000562">“Uptown,</span>
   <span id="f000563">downtown,</span>
   <span id="f000564">jelly on a spoon,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000565">After sundown shiver by the moon.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000566">He was not watching her now.</span>
   <span id="f000567">She saw that clearly.</span>
   <span id="f000568">He was looking very deliberately at a castle on the back drop,</span>
   <span id="f000569">wearing that expression he had worn in the Taft Grill.</span>
   <span id="f000570">A wave of exasperation swept over her – he was criticising her.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000571">“That’s the vibration that thrills me,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000572">Funny how affection fi-lls me<br /></span>
   <span id="f000573">Uptown,</span>
   <span id="f000574">downtown – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000575">Unconquerable revulsion seized her.</span>
   <span id="f000576">She was suddenly and horribly conscious of her audience as she had never been since her first appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000577">Was that a leer on a pallid face in the front row,</span>
   <span id="f000578">a droop of disgust on one young girl’s mouth?</span>
   <span id="f000579">These shoulders of hers – these shoulders shaking – were they hers?</span>
   <span id="f000580">Were they real?</span>
   <span id="f000581">Surely shoulders weren’t made for this!</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000582">“Then – you’ll see at a glance<br /></span>
   <span id="f000583">I’ll need some funeral ushers with St.&#160;Vitus dance<br /></span>
   <span id="f000584">At the end of the world I’ll – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000585">The bassoon and two cellos crashed into a final chord.</span>
   <span id="f000586">She paused and poised a moment on her toes with every muscle tense,</span>
   <span id="f000587">her young face looking out dully at the audience in what one young girl afterward called “such a curious,</span>
   <span id="f000588">puzzled look,” and then without bowing rushed from the stage.</span>
   <span id="f000589">Into the dressing-room she sped,</span>
   <span id="f000590">kicked out of one dress and into another,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and caught a taxi outside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">Her apartment was very warm – small,</span>
   <span id="f000593">it was,</span>
   <span id="f000594">with a row of professional pictures and sets of Kipling and O.</span>
   <span id="f000595">Henry which she had bought once from a blue-eyed agent and read occasionally.</span>
   <span id="f000596">And there were several chairs which matched,</span>
   <span id="f000597">but were none of them comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and a pink-shaded lamp with blackbirds painted on it and an atmosphere of other stifled pink throughout.</span>
   <span id="f000599">There were nice things in it – nice things unrelentingly hostile to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000600">offspring of a vicarious,</span>
   <span id="f000601">impatient taste acting in stray moments.</span>
   <span id="f000602">The worst was typified by a great picture framed in oak bark of Passaic as seen from the Erie Railroad – altogether a frantic,</span>
   <span id="f000603">oddly extravagant,</span>
   <span id="f000604">oddly penurious attempt to make a cheerful room.</span>
   <span id="f000605">Marcia knew it was a failure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">Into this room came the prodigy and took her two hands awkwardly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000607">“I followed you this time,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000608">“Oh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">“I want you to marry me,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">Her arms went out to him.</span>
   <span id="f000611">She kissed his mouth with a sort of passionate wholesomeness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">“There!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">“I love you,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">She kissed him again and then with a little sigh flung herself into an armchair and half lay there,</span>
   <span id="f000615">shaken with absurd laughter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000617">you infant prodigy!” she cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000619">call me that if you want to.</span>
   <span id="f000620">I once told you that I was ten thousand years older than you – I am.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">She laughed again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">“I don’t like to be disapproved of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">“No one’s ever going to disapprove of you again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000624">“Omar,” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000625">“why do you want to marry me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">The prodigy rose and put his hands in his pockets.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">“Because I love you,</span>
   <span id="f000628">Marcia Meadow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">And then she stopped calling him Omar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">“Dear boy,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000631">“you know I sort of love you.</span>
   <span id="f000632">There’s something about you – I can’t tell what – that just puts my heart through the wringer every time I’m round you.</span>
   <span id="f000633">But honey – ” She paused.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">“But what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">“But lots of things.</span>
   <span id="f000636">But you’re only just eighteen,</span>
   <span id="f000637">and I’m nearly twenty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">“Nonsense!” he interrupted.</span>
   <span id="f000639">“Put it this way – that I’m in my nineteenth year and you’re nineteen.</span>
   <span id="f000640">That makes us pretty close – without counting that other ten thousand years I mentioned.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">Marcia laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000642">But there are some more ’buts.’ Your people –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">“My people!” exclaimed the prodigy ferociously.</span>
   <span id="f000644">“My people tried to make a monstrosity out of me.” His face grew quite crimson at the enormity of what he was going to say.</span>
   <span id="f000645">“My people can go way back and sit down!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“My heavens!” cried Marcia in alarm.</span>
   <span id="f000647">“All that?</span>
   <span id="f000648">On tacks,</span>
   <span id="f000649">I suppose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">“Tacks – yes,” he agreed wildly – “on anything.</span>
   <span id="f000651">The more I think of how they allowed me to become a little dried-up mummy – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">“What makes you thank you’re that?” asked Marcia quietly – “me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000654">Every person I’ve met on the streets since I met you has made me jealous because they knew what love was before I did.</span>
   <span id="f000655">I used to call it the ’sex impulse.’ Heavens!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">“There’s more ’buts,’” said Marcia</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000657">“What are they?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">“How could we live?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">“I’ll make a living.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000660">“You’re in college.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000661">“Do you think I care anything about taking a Master of Arts degree?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">“You want to be Master of Me,</span>
   <span id="f000663">hey?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">“Yes!</span>
   <span id="f000665">What?</span>
   <span id="f000666">I mean,</span>
   <span id="f000667">no!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">Marcia laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and crossing swiftly over sat in his lap.</span>
   <span id="f000670">He put his arm round her wildly and implanted the vestige of a kiss somewhere near her neck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">“There’s something white about you,” mused Marcia “but it doesn’t sound very logical.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000673">don’t be so darned reasonable!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">“I can’t help it,” said Marcia.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">“I hate these slot-machine people!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">“But we – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000678">shut up!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">And as Marcia couldn’t talk through her ears she had to.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000680">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000681">Horace and Marcia were married early in February.</span>
   <span id="f000682">The sensation in academic circles both at Yale and Princeton was tremendous.</span>
   <span id="f000683">Horace Tarbox,</span>
   <span id="f000684">who at fourteen had been played up in the Sunday magazines sections of metropolitan newspapers,</span>
   <span id="f000685">was throwing over his career,</span>
   <span id="f000686">his chance of being a world authority on American philosophy,</span>
   <span id="f000687">by marrying a chorus girl – they made Marcia a chorus girl.</span>
   <span id="f000688">But like all modern stories it was a four-and-a-half-day wonder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000689">They took a flat in Harlem.</span>
   <span id="f000690">After two weeks’ search,</span>
   <span id="f000691">during which his idea of the value of academic knowledge faded unmercifully,</span>
   <span id="f000692">Horace took a position as clerk with a South American export company – some one had told him that exporting was the coming thing.</span>
   <span id="f000693">Marcia was to stay in her show for a few months – anyway until he got on his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000694">He was getting a hundred and twenty-five to start with,</span>
   <span id="f000695">and though of course they told him it was only a question of months until he would be earning double that,</span>
   <span id="f000696">Marcia refused even to consider giving up the hundred and fifty a week that she was getting at the time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000697">“We’ll call ourselves Head and Shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000698">dear,” she said softly,</span>
   <span id="f000699">“and the shoulders’ll have to keep shaking a little longer until the old head gets started.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000700">“I hate it,” he objected gloomily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">“Well,” she replied emphatically,</span>
   <span id="f000702">“Your salary wouldn’t keep us in a tenement.</span>
   <span id="f000703">Don’t think I want to be public – I don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000704">I want to be yours.</span>
   <span id="f000705">But I’d be a half-wit to sit in one room and count the sunflowers on the wall-paper while I waited for you.</span>
   <span id="f000706">When you pull down three hundred a month I’ll quit.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">And much as it hurt his pride,</span>
   <span id="f000708">Horace had to admit that hers was the wiser course.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000709">March mellowed into April.</span>
   <span id="f000710">May read a gorgeous riot act to the parks and waters of Manhatten,</span>
   <span id="f000711">and they were very happy.</span>
   <span id="f000712">Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000713">who had no habits whatsoever – he had never had time to form any – proved the most adaptable of husbands,</span>
   <span id="f000714">and as Marcia entirely lacked opinions on the subjects that engrossed him there were very few jottings and bumping.</span>
   <span id="f000715">Their minds moved in different spheres.</span>
   <span id="f000716">Marcia acted as practical factotum,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and Horace lived either in his old world of abstract ideas or in a sort of triumphantly earthy worship and adoration of his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000718">She was a continual source of astonishment to him – the freshness and originality of her mind,</span>
   <span id="f000719">her dynamic,</span>
   <span id="f000720">clear-headed energy,</span>
   <span id="f000721">and her unfailing good humor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000722">And Marcia’s co-workers in the nine-o’clock show,</span>
   <span id="f000723">whither she had transferred her talents,</span>
   <span id="f000724">were impressed with her tremendous pride in her husband’s mental powers.</span>
   <span id="f000725">Horace they knew only as a very slim,</span>
   <span id="f000726">tight-lipped,</span>
   <span id="f000727">and immature-looking young man,</span>
   <span id="f000728">who waited every night to take her home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">“Horace,” said Marcia one evening when she met him as usual at eleven,</span>
   <span id="f000730">“you looked like a ghost standing there against the street lights.</span>
   <span id="f000731">You losing weight?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">He shook his head vaguely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">“I don’t know.</span>
   <span id="f000734">They raised me to a hundred and thirty-five dollars to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000735">and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000736">“I don’t care,” said Marcia severely.</span>
   <span id="f000737">“You’re killing yourself working at night.</span>
   <span id="f000738">You read those big books on economy – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">“Economics,” corrected Horace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000741">you read ’em every night long after I’m asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000742">And you’re getting all stooped over like you were before we were married.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000743">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000744">Marcia,</span>
   <span id="f000745">I’ve got to – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000746">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000747">you haven’t dear.</span>
   <span id="f000748">I guess I’m running this shop for the present,</span>
   <span id="f000749">and I won’t let my fella ruin his health and eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000750">You got to get some exercise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000751">“I do.</span>
   <span id="f000752">Every morning I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000754">I know!</span>
   <span id="f000755">But those dumb-bells of yours wouldn’t give a consumptive two degrees of fever.</span>
   <span id="f000756">I mean real exercise.</span>
   <span id="f000757">You’ve got to join a gymnasium.</span>
   <span id="f000758">’Member you told me you were such a trick gymnast once that they tried to get you out for the team in college and they couldn’t because you had a standing date with Herb Spencer?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000759">“I used to enjoy it,” mused Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000760">“but it would take up too much time now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000761">“All right,” said Marcia.</span>
   <span id="f000762">“I’ll make a bargain with you.</span>
   <span id="f000763">You join a gym and I’ll read one of those books from the brown row of ’em.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000764">“’Pepys’ Diary’?</span>
   <span id="f000765">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000766">that ought to be enjoyable.</span>
   <span id="f000767">He’s very light.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">“Not for me – he isn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000769">It’ll be like digesting plate glass.</span>
   <span id="f000770">But you been telling me how much it’d broaden my lookout.</span>
   <span id="f000771">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000772">you go to a gym three nights a week and I’ll take one big dose of Sammy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000773">Horace hesitated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000774">“Well – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">“Come on,</span>
   <span id="f000776">now!</span>
   <span id="f000777">You do some giant swings for me and I’ll chase some culture for you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">So Horace finally consented,</span>
   <span id="f000779">and all through a baking summer he spent three and sometimes four evenings a week experimenting on the trapeze in Skipper’s Gymnasium.</span>
   <span id="f000780">And in August he admitted to Marcia that it made him capable of more mental work during the day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000781">“MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000782">“Don’t believe in it,” replied Marcia.</span>
   <span id="f000783">“I tried one of those patent medicines once and they’re all bunk.</span>
   <span id="f000784">You stick to gymnastics.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">One night in early September while he was going through one of his contortions on the rings in the nearly deserted room he was addressed by a meditative fat man whom he had noticed watching him for several nights.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000786">“Say,</span>
   <span id="f000787">lad,</span>
   <span id="f000788">do that stunt you were doin’ last night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000789">Horace grinned at him from his perch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000790">“I invented it,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000791">“I got the idea from the fourth proposition of Euclid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">“What circus he with?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000793">“He’s dead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000795">he must of broke his neck doin’ that stunt.</span>
   <span id="f000796">I set here last night thinkin’ sure you was goin’ to break yours.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">“Like this!” said Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and swinging onto the trapeze he did his stunt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">“Don’t it kill your neck an’ shoulder muscles?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000800">“It did at first,</span>
   <span id="f000801">but inside of a week I wrote the QUOD ERAT DEMONSTRANDUM on it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“Hm!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000803">Horace swung idly on the trapeze.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“Ever think of takin’ it up professionally?” asked the fat man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">“Not I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">“Good money in it if you’re willin’ to do stunts like ’at an’ can get away with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000807">“Here’s another,” chirped Horace eagerly,</span>
   <span id="f000808">and the fat man’s mouth dropped suddenly agape as he watched this pink-jerseyed Prometheus again defy the gods and Isaac Newton.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">The night following this encounter Horace got home from work to find a rather pale Marcia stretched out on the sofa waiting for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">“I fainted twice to-day,” she began without preliminaries.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000812">“Yep.</span>
   <span id="f000813">You see baby’s due in four months now.</span>
   <span id="f000814">Doctor says I ought to have quit dancing two weeks ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">Horace sat down and thought it over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000816">“I’m glad of course,” he said pensively – “I mean glad that we’re going to have a baby.</span>
   <span id="f000817">But this means a lot of expense.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000818">“I’ve got two hundred and fifty in the bank,” said Marcia hopefully,</span>
   <span id="f000819">“and two weeks’ pay coming.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">Horace computed quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">“Inducing my salary,</span>
   <span id="f000822">that’ll give us nearly fourteen hundred for the next six months.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000823">Marcia looked blue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000824">“That all?</span>
   <span id="f000825">Course I can get a job singing somewhere this month.</span>
   <span id="f000826">And I can go to work again in March.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000827">“Of course nothing!” said Horace gruffly.</span>
   <span id="f000828">“You’ll stay right here.</span>
   <span id="f000829">Let’s see now – there’ll be doctor’s bills and a nurse,</span>
   <span id="f000830">besides the maid:</span>
   <span id="f000831">We’ve got to have some more money.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000832">“Well,” said Marcia wearily,</span>
   <span id="f000833">“I don’t know where it’s coming from.</span>
   <span id="f000834">It’s up to the old head now.</span>
   <span id="f000835">Shoulders is out of business.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">Horace rose and pulled on his coat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">“Where are you going?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000838">“I’ve got an idea,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000839">“I’ll be right back.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000840">Ten minutes later as he headed down the street toward Skipper’s Gymnasium he felt a placid wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000841">quite unmixed with humor,</span>
   <span id="f000842">at what he was going to do.</span>
   <span id="f000843">How he would have gaped at himself a year before!</span>
   <span id="f000844">How every one would have gaped!</span>
   <span id="f000845">But when you opened your door at the rap of life you let in many things.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">The gymnasium was brightly lit,</span>
   <span id="f000847">and when his eyes became accustomed to the glare he found the meditative fat man seated on a pile of canvas mats smoking a big cigar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000848">“Say,” began Horace directly,</span>
   <span id="f000849">“were you in earnest last night when you said I could make money on my trapeze stunts?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000851">yes,” said the fat man in surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000853">I’ve been thinking it over,</span>
   <span id="f000854">and I believe I’d like to try it.</span>
   <span id="f000855">I could work at night and on Saturday afternoons – and regularly if the pay is high enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000856">The fat men looked at his watch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000857">“Well,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000858">“Charlie Paulson’s the man to see.</span>
   <span id="f000859">He’ll book you inside of four days,</span>
   <span id="f000860">once he sees you work out.</span>
   <span id="f000861">He won’t be in now,</span>
   <span id="f000862">but I’ll get hold of him for to-morrow night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">The fat man was as good as his word.</span>
   <span id="f000864">Charlie Paulson arrived next night and put in a wondrous hour watching the prodigy swap through the air in amazing parabolas,</span>
   <span id="f000865">and on the night following he brought two age men with him who looked as though they had been born smoking black cigars and talking about money in low,</span>
   <span id="f000866">passionate voices.</span>
   <span id="f000867">Then on the succeeding Saturday Horace Tarbox’s torso made its first professional appearance in a gymnastic exhibition at the Coleman Street Gardens.</span>
   <span id="f000868">But though the audience numbered nearly five thousand people,</span>
   <span id="f000869">Horace felt no nervousness.</span>
   <span id="f000870">From his childhood he had read papers to audiences – learned that trick of detaching himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000871">“Marcia,” he said cheerfully later that same night,</span>
   <span id="f000872">“I think we’re out of the woods.</span>
   <span id="f000873">Paulson thinks he can get me an opening at the Hippodrome,</span>
   <span id="f000874">and that means an all-winter engagement.</span>
   <span id="f000875">The Hippodrome you know,</span>
   <span id="f000876">is a big – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000878">I believe I’ve heard of it,” interrupted Marcia,</span>
   <span id="f000879">“but I want to know about this stunt you’re doing.</span>
   <span id="f000880">It isn’t any spectacular suicide,</span>
   <span id="f000881">is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">“It’s nothing,” said Horace quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000883">“But if you can think of an nicer way of a man killing himself than taking a risk for you,</span>
   <span id="f000884">why that’s the way I want to die.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000885">Marcia reached up and wound both arms tightly round his neck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">“Kiss me,” she whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000887">“and call me ’dear heart.’ I love to hear you say ’dear heart.’ And bring me a book to read to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000888">No more Sam Pepys,</span>
   <span id="f000889">but something trick and trashy.</span>
   <span id="f000890">I’ve been wild for something to do all day.</span>
   <span id="f000891">I felt like writing letters,</span>
   <span id="f000892">but I didn’t have anybody to write to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000893">“Write to me,” said Horace.</span>
   <span id="f000894">“I’ll read them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000895">“I wish I could,” breathed Marcia.</span>
   <span id="f000896">“If I knew words enough I could write you the longest love-letter in the world – and never get tired.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000897">But after two more months Marcia grew very tired indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000898">and for a row of nights it was a very anxious,</span>
   <span id="f000899">weary-looking young athlete who walked out before the Hippodrome crowd.</span>
   <span id="f000900">Then there were two days when his place was taken by a young man who wore pale blue instead of white,</span>
   <span id="f000901">and got very little applause.</span>
   <span id="f000902">But after the two days Horace appeared again,</span>
   <span id="f000903">and those who sat close to the stage remarked an expression of beatific happiness on that young acrobat’s face even when he was twisting breathlessly in the air an the middle of his amazing and original shoulder swing.</span>
   <span id="f000904">After that performance he laughed at the elevator man and dashed up the stairs to the flat five steps at a time – and then tiptoed very carefully into a quiet room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">“Marcia,” he whispered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000906">“Hello!” She smiled up at him wanly.</span>
   <span id="f000907">“Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000908">there’s something I want you to do.</span>
   <span id="f000909">Look in my top bureau drawer and you’ll find a big stack of paper.</span>
   <span id="f000910">It’s a book – sort of – Horace.</span>
   <span id="f000911">I wrote it down in these last three months while I’ve been laid up.</span>
   <span id="f000912">I wish you’d take it to that Peter Boyce Wendell who put my letter in his paper.</span>
   <span id="f000913">He could tell you whether it’d be a good book.</span>
   <span id="f000914">I wrote it just the way I talk,</span>
   <span id="f000915">just the way I wrote that letter to him.</span>
   <span id="f000916">It’s just a story about a lot of things that happened to me.</span>
   <span id="f000917">Will you take it to him,</span>
   <span id="f000918">Horace?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000919">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000920">darling.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000921">He leaned over the bed until his head was beside her on the pillow,</span>
   <span id="f000922">and began stroking back her yellow hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000923">“Dearest Marcia,” he said softly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000924">“No,” she murmured,</span>
   <span id="f000925">“call me what I told you to call me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000926">“Dear heart,” he whispered passionately – “dearest heart.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000927">“What’ll we call her?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000928">They rested a minute in happy,</span>
   <span id="f000929">drowsy content,</span>
   <span id="f000930">while Horace considered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000931">“We’ll call her Marcia Hume Tarbox,” he said at length.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000932">“Why the Hume?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000933">“Because he’s the fellow who first introduced us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">“That so?” she murmured,</span>
   <span id="f000935">sleepily surprised.</span>
   <span id="f000936">“I thought his name was Moon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">Her eyes dosed,</span>
   <span id="f000938">and after a moment the slow lengthening surge of the bedclothes over her breast showed that she was asleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">Horace tiptoed over to the bureau and opening the top drawer found a heap of closely scrawled,</span>
   <span id="f000940">lead-smeared pages.</span>
   <span id="f000941">He looked at the first sheet:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000942">SANDRA PEPYS,</span>
   <span id="f000943">SYNCOPATED<br /></span>
   <span id="f000944">BY MARCIA TARBOX</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000945">He smiled.</span>
   <span id="f000946">So Samuel Pepys had made an impression on her after all.</span>
   <span id="f000947">He turned a page and began to read.</span>
   <span id="f000948">His smile deepened – he read on.</span>
   <span id="f000949">Half an hour passed and he became aware that Marcia had waked and was watching him from the bed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">“Honey,” came in a whisper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000951">“What Marcia?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000952">“Do you like it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">Horace coughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000954">“I seem to be reading on.</span>
   <span id="f000955">It’s bright.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000956">“Take it to Peter Boyce Wendell.</span>
   <span id="f000957">Tell him you got the highest marks in Princeton once and that you ought to know when a book’s good.</span>
   <span id="f000958">Tell him this one’s a world beater.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">“All right,</span>
   <span id="f000960">Marcia,” Horace said gently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000961">Her eyes closed again and Horace crossing over kissed her forehead – stood there for a moment with a look of tender pity.</span>
   <span id="f000962">Then he left the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000963">All that night the sprawly writing on the pages,</span>
   <span id="f000964">the constant mistakes in spelling and grammar,</span>
   <span id="f000965">and the weird punctuation danced before his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000966">He woke several times in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000967">each time full of a welling chaotic sympathy for this desire of Marcia’s soul to express itself in words.</span>
   <span id="f000968">To him there was something infinitely pathetic about it,</span>
   <span id="f000969">and for the first time in months he began to turn over in his mind his own half-forgotten dreams.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000970">He had meant to write a series of books,</span>
   <span id="f000971">to popularize the new realism as Schopenhauer had popularized pessimism and William James pragmatism.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000972">But life hadn’t come that way.</span>
   <span id="f000973">Life took hold of people and forced them into flying rings.</span>
   <span id="f000974">He laughed to think of that rap at his door,</span>
   <span id="f000975">the diaphanous shadow in Hume,</span>
   <span id="f000976">Marcia’s threatened kiss.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000977">“And it’s still me,” he said aloud in wonder as he lay awake in the darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000978">"I’m the man who sat in Berkeley with temerity to wonder if that rap would have had actual existence had my ear not been there to hear it.</span>
   <span id="f000979">I’m still that man.</span>
   <span id="f000980">I could be electrocuted for the crimes he committed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“Poor gauzy souls trying to express ourselves in something tangible.</span>
   <span id="f000982">Marcia with her written book;</span>
   <span id="f000983">I with my unwritten ones.</span>
   <span id="f000984">Trying to choose our mediums and then taking what we get – and being glad.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000985">V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000986">“Sandra Pepys,</span>
   <span id="f000987">Syncopated,” with an introduction by Peter Boyce Wendell the columnist,</span>
   <span id="f000988">appeared serially in JORDAN’S MAGAZINE,</span>
   <span id="f000989">and came out in book form in March.</span>
   <span id="f000990">From its first published instalment it attracted attention far and wide.</span>
   <span id="f000991">A trite enough subject – a girl from a small New Jersey town coming to New York to go on the stage – treated simply,</span>
   <span id="f000992">with a peculiar vividness of phrasing and a haunting undertone of sadness in the very inadequacy of its vocabulary,</span>
   <span id="f000993">it made an irresistible appeal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000994">Peter Boyce Wendell,</span>
   <span id="f000995">who happened at that time to be advocating the enrichment of the American language by the immediate adoption of expressive vernacular words,</span>
   <span id="f000996">stood as its sponsor and thundered his indorsement over the placid bromides of the conventional reviewers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000997">Marcia received three hundred dollars an instalment for the serial publication,</span>
   <span id="f000998">which came at an opportune time,</span>
   <span id="f000999">for though Horace’s monthly salary at the Hippodrome was now more than Marcia’s had ever been,</span>
   <span id="f001000">young Marcia was emitting shrill cries which they interpreted as a demand for country air.</span>
   <span id="f001001">So early April found them installed in a bungalow in Westchester County,</span>
   <span id="f001002">with a place for a lawn,</span>
   <span id="f001003">a place for a garage,</span>
   <span id="f001004">and a place for everything,</span>
   <span id="f001005">including a sound-proof impregnable study,</span>
   <span id="f001006">in which Marcia faithfully promised Mr.&#160;Jordan she would shut herself up when her daughter’s demands began to be abated,</span>
   <span id="f001007">and compose immortally illiterate literature.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001008">“It’s not half bad,” thought Horace one night as he was on his way from the station to his house.</span>
   <span id="f001009">He was considering several prospects that had opened up,</span>
   <span id="f001010">a four months’ vaudeville offer in five figures,</span>
   <span id="f001011">a chance to go back to Princeton in charge of all gymnasium work.</span>
   <span id="f001012">Odd!</span>
   <span id="f001013">He had once intended to go back there in charge of all philosophic work,</span>
   <span id="f001014">and now he had not even been stirred by the arrival in New York of Anton Laurier,</span>
   <span id="f001015">his old idol.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001016">The gravel crunched raucously under his heel.</span>
   <span id="f001017">He saw the lights of his sitting-room gleaming and noticed a big car standing in the drive.</span>
   <span id="f001018">Probably Mr.&#160;Jordan again,</span>
   <span id="f001019">come to persuade Marcia to settle down’ to work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001020">She had heard the sound of his approach and her form was silhouetted against the lighted door as she came out to meet him.</span>
   <span id="f001021">“There’s some Frenchman here,” she whispered nervously.</span>
   <span id="f001022">“I can’t pronounce his name,</span>
   <span id="f001023">but he sounds awful deep.</span>
   <span id="f001024">You’ll have to jaw with him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001025">“What Frenchman?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001026">“You can’t prove it by me.</span>
   <span id="f001027">He drove up an hour ago with Mr.&#160;Jordan,</span>
   <span id="f001028">and said he wanted to meet Sandra Pepys,</span>
   <span id="f001029">and all that sort of thing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001030">Two men rose from chairs as they went inside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001031">“Hello Tarbox,” said Jordan.</span>
   <span id="f001032">“I’ve just been bringing together two celebrities.</span>
   <span id="f001033">I’ve brought M’sieur Laurier out with me.</span>
   <span id="f001034">M’sieur Laurier,</span>
   <span id="f001035">let me present Mr.&#160;Tarbox,</span>
   <span id="f001036">Mrs.&#160;Tarbox’s husband.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001037">“Not Anton Laurier!” exclaimed Horace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001038">“But,</span>
   <span id="f001039">yes.</span>
   <span id="f001040">I must come.</span>
   <span id="f001041">I have to come.</span>
   <span id="f001042">I have read the book of Madame,</span>
   <span id="f001043">and I have been charmed” – he fumbled in his pocket – “ah I have read of you too.</span>
   <span id="f001044">In this newspaper which I read to-day it has your name.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001045">He finally produced a clipping from a magazine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001046">“Read it!” he said eagerly.</span>
   <span id="f001047">“It has about you too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001048">Horace’s eye skipped down the page.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001049">“A distinct contribution to American dialect literature,” it said.</span>
   <span id="f001050">“No attempt at literary tone;</span>
   <span id="f001051">the book derives its very quality from this fact,</span>
   <span id="f001052">as did ’Huckleberry Finn.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001053">Horace’s eyes caught a passage lower down;</span>
   <span id="f001054">he became suddenly aghast – read on hurriedly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001055">Marcia Tarbox’s connection with the stage is not only as a spectator but as the wife of a performer.</span>
   <span id="f001056">She was married last year to Horace Tarbox,</span>
   <span id="f001057">who every evening delights the children at the Hippodrome with his wondrous flying performance.</span>
   <span id="f001058">It is said that the young couple have dubbed themselves Head and Shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f001059">referring doubtless to the fact that Mrs.&#160;Tarbox supplies the literary and mental qualities,</span>
   <span id="f001060">while the supple and agile shoulder of her husband contribute their share to the family fortunes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001061">“Mrs.&#160;Tarbox seems to merit that much-abused title – ’prodigy.’ Only twenty – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001062">Horace stopped reading,</span>
   <span id="f001063">and with a very odd expression in his eyes gazed intently at Anton Laurier.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001064">“I want to advise you – ” he began hoarsely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001065">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001066">“About raps.</span>
   <span id="f001067">Don’t answer them!</span>
   <span id="f001068">Let them alone – have a padded door.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

