<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Wintry Peacock</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />D. H. Lawrence</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">There was thin,</span>
   <span id="f000008">crisp snow on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000009">the sky was blue,</span>
   <span id="f000010">the wind very cold,</span>
   <span id="f000011">the air clear.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Farmers were just turning out the cows for an hour or so in the midday,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and the smell of cow-sheds was unendurable as I entered Tible.</span>
   <span id="f000014">I noticed the ash-twigs up in the sky were pale and luminous,</span>
   <span id="f000015">passing into the blue.</span>
   <span id="f000016">And then I saw the peacocks.</span>
   <span id="f000017">There they were in the road before me,</span>
   <span id="f000018">three of them,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and tailless,</span>
   <span id="f000020">brown,</span>
   <span id="f000021">speckled birds,</span>
   <span id="f000022">with dark-blue necks and ragged crests.</span>
   <span id="f000023">They stepped archly over the filigree snow,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and their bodies moved with slow motion,</span>
   <span id="f000025">like small,</span>
   <span id="f000026">light,</span>
   <span id="f000027">flat-bottomed boats.</span>
   <span id="f000028">I admired them,</span>
   <span id="f000029">they were curious.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Then a gust of wind caught them,</span>
   <span id="f000031">heeled them over as if they were three frail boats,</span>
   <span id="f000032">opening their feathers like ragged sails.</span>
   <span id="f000033">They hopped and skipped with discomfort,</span>
   <span id="f000034">to get out of the draught of the wind.</span>
   <span id="f000035">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000036">in the lee of the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000037">they resumed their arch,</span>
   <span id="f000038">wintry motion,</span>
   <span id="f000039">light and unballasted now their tails were gone,</span>
   <span id="f000040">indifferent.</span>
   <span id="f000041">They were indifferent to my presence.</span>
   <span id="f000042">I might have touched them.</span>
   <span id="f000043">They turned off to the shelter of an open shed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">As I passed the end of the upper house,</span>
   <span id="f000045">I saw a young woman just coming out of the back door.</span>
   <span id="f000046">I had spoken to her in the summer.</span>
   <span id="f000047">She recognised me at once,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and waved to me.</span>
   <span id="f000049">She was carrying a pail,</span>
   <span id="f000050">wearing a white apron that was longer than her preposterously short skirt,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and she had on the cotton bonnet.</span>
   <span id="f000052">I took off my hat to her and was going on.</span>
   <span id="f000053">But she put down her pail and darted with a swift,</span>
   <span id="f000054">furtive movement after me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">“Do you mind waiting a minute?” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000056">“I’ll be out in a minute.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">She gave me a slight,</span>
   <span id="f000058">odd smile,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and ran back.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Her face was long and sallow and her nose rather red.</span>
   <span id="f000061">But her gloomy black eyes softened caressively to me for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000062">with that momentary humility which makes a man lord of the earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">I stood in the road,</span>
   <span id="f000064">looking at the fluffy,</span>
   <span id="f000065">dark-red young cattle that mooed and seemed to bark at me.</span>
   <span id="f000066">They seemed happy,</span>
   <span id="f000067">frisky cattle,</span>
   <span id="f000068">a little impudent,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and either determined to go back into the warm shed,</span>
   <span id="f000070">or determined not to go back.</span>
   <span id="f000071">I could not decide which.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Presently the woman came forward again,</span>
   <span id="f000073">her head rather ducked.</span>
   <span id="f000074">But she looked up at me and smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000075">with that odd,</span>
   <span id="f000076">immediate intimacy,</span>
   <span id="f000077">something witch-like and impossible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“Sorry to keep you waiting,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000079">“Shall we stand in this cart-shed – it will be more out of the wind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">So we stood among the shafts of the open cart-shed,</span>
   <span id="f000081">that faced the road.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Then she looked down at the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000083">a little sideways,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and I noticed a small black frown on her brows.</span>
   <span id="f000085">She seemed to brood for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Then she looked straight into my eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000087">so that I blinked and wanted to turn my face aside.</span>
   <span id="f000088">She was searching me for something and her look was too near.</span>
   <span id="f000089">The frown was still on her keen,</span>
   <span id="f000090">sallow brow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">“Can you speak French?” she asked me abruptly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“More or less,” I replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“I was supposed to learn it at school,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000094">“But I don’t know a word.” She ducked her head and laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000095">with a slightly ugly grimace and a rolling of her black eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“No good keeping your mind full of scraps,” I answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">But she had turned aside her sallow,</span>
   <span id="f000098">long face,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and did not hear what I said.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Suddenly again she looked at me.</span>
   <span id="f000101">She was searching.</span>
   <span id="f000102">And at the same time she smiled at me,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and her eyes looked softly,</span>
   <span id="f000104">darkly,</span>
   <span id="f000105">with infinite trustful humility into mine.</span>
   <span id="f000106">I was being cajoled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“Would you mind reading a letter for me,</span>
   <span id="f000108">in French?” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000109">her face immediately black and bitter-looking.</span>
   <span id="f000110">She glanced at me,</span>
   <span id="f000111">frowning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“Not at all,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“It’s a letter to my husband,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000114">still scrutinising.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">I looked at her,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and didn’t quite realise.</span>
   <span id="f000117">She looked too far into me,</span>
   <span id="f000118">my wits were gone.</span>
   <span id="f000119">She glanced round.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Then she looked at me shrewdly.</span>
   <span id="f000121">She drew a letter from her pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and handed it to me.</span>
   <span id="f000123">It was addressed from France to M.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Alfred Goyte,</span>
   <span id="f000125">at Tible.</span>
   <span id="f000126">I took out the letter and began to read it,</span>
   <span id="f000127">as mere words.</span>
   <span id="f000128">“Mon cher Alfred” – it might have been a bit of a torn newspaper.</span>
   <span id="f000129">So I followed the script:</span>
   <span id="f000130">the trite phrases of a letter from a French-speaking girl to an Englishman.</span>
   <span id="f000131">“I think of you always,</span>
   <span id="f000132">always.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Do you think sometimes of me?” And then I vaguely realised that I was reading a man’s private correspondence.</span>
   <span id="f000134">And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000135">how could one consider these trivial,</span>
   <span id="f000136">facile French phrases private?</span>
   <span id="f000137">Nothing more trite and vulgar in the world than such a love-letter – no newspaper more obvious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">Therefore I read with a callous heart the effusions of the Belgian damsel.</span>
   <span id="f000139">But then I gathered my attention.</span>
   <span id="f000140">For the letter went on,</span>
   <span id="f000141">“Notre cher petit bébé – our dear little baby was born a week ago.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Almost I died,</span>
   <span id="f000143">knowing you were far away,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and perhaps forgetting the fruit of our perfect love.</span>
   <span id="f000145">But the child comforted me.</span>
   <span id="f000146">He has the smiling eyes and virile air of his English father.</span>
   <span id="f000147">I pray to the Mother of Jesus to send me the dear father of my child,</span>
   <span id="f000148">that I may see him with my child in his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and that we may be united in holy family love.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000151">my Alfred,</span>
   <span id="f000152">can I tell you how I miss you,</span>
   <span id="f000153">how I weep for you?</span>
   <span id="f000154">My thoughts are with you always,</span>
   <span id="f000155">I think of nothing but you,</span>
   <span id="f000156">I live for nothing but you and our dear baby.</span>
   <span id="f000157">If you do not come back to me soon,</span>
   <span id="f000158">I shall die,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and our child will die.</span>
   <span id="f000160">But no,</span>
   <span id="f000161">you cannot come back to me.</span>
   <span id="f000162">But I can come to you.</span>
   <span id="f000163">I can come to England with our child.</span>
   <span id="f000164">If you do not wish to present me to your good mother and father you can meet me in some town,</span>
   <span id="f000165">some city,</span>
   <span id="f000166">for I shall be so frightened to be alone in England with my child,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and no one to take care of us.</span>
   <span id="f000168">Yet I must come to you,</span>
   <span id="f000169">I must bring my child,</span>
   <span id="f000170">my little Alfred,</span>
   <span id="f000171">to his father,</span>
   <span id="f000172">the big,</span>
   <span id="f000173">beautiful Alfred that I love so much.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000175">write and tell me where I shall come.</span>
   <span id="f000176">I have some money.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I am not a penniless creature.</span>
   <span id="f000178">I have money for myself and my dear baby – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">I read to the end.</span>
   <span id="f000180">It was signed:</span>
   <span id="f000181">“Your very happy and still more unhappy Elise.” I suppose I must have been smiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“I can see it makes you laugh,” said Mrs.&#160;Goyte,</span>
   <span id="f000183">sardonically.</span>
   <span id="f000184">I looked up at her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“It’s a love-letter,</span>
   <span id="f000186">I know that,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000187">“There’s too many ’Alfreds’ in it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“One too many,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“Oh yes.</span>
   <span id="f000190">– And what does she say – Eliza?</span>
   <span id="f000191">We know her name’s Eliza,</span>
   <span id="f000192">that’s another thing.” She grimaced a little,</span>
   <span id="f000193">looking up at me with a mocking laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“Where did you get this letter?” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Postman gave it me last week.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“And is your husband at home?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“I expect him home to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000198">He had an accident and hurt his leg.</span>
   <span id="f000199">He’s been abroad most of his time for this last four years.</span>
   <span id="f000200">He’s chauffeur to a gentleman who travels about in one country and another,</span>
   <span id="f000201">on some sort of business.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Married?</span>
   <span id="f000203">We married?</span>
   <span id="f000204">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000205">six years.</span>
   <span id="f000206">And I tell you I’ve seen little enough of him for four of them.</span>
   <span id="f000207">But he always was a rake.</span>
   <span id="f000208">He went through the South African War,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and stopped out there for five years.</span>
   <span id="f000210">I’m living with his father and mother.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I’ve no home of my own now.</span>
   <span id="f000212">My people had a big farm – over a thousand acres – in Oxfordshire.</span>
   <span id="f000213">Not like here – no.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000215">they’re very good to me,</span>
   <span id="f000216">his father and mother.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Oh yes,</span>
   <span id="f000218">they couldn’t be better.</span>
   <span id="f000219">They think more of me than of their own daughters.</span>
   <span id="f000220">– But it’s not like being in a place of your own,</span>
   <span id="f000221">is it?</span>
   <span id="f000222">You can’t <em>really</em> do as you like.</span>
   <span id="f000223">No,</span>
   <span id="f000224">there’s only me and his father and mother at home.</span>
   <span id="f000225">Always a chauffeur?</span>
   <span id="f000226">No,</span>
   <span id="f000227">he’s been all sorts of things:</span>
   <span id="f000228">was to be a farm-bailiff by rights.</span>
   <span id="f000229">He’s had a good education – but he liked the motors better.</span>
   <span id="f000230">– Then he was five years in the Cape Mounted Police.</span>
   <span id="f000231">I met him when he came back from there,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and married him – more fool me – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">At this point the peacocks came round the corner on a puff of wind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“Hello,</span>
   <span id="f000235">Joey!” she called,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and one of the birds came forward,</span>
   <span id="f000237">on delicate legs.</span>
   <span id="f000238">Its grey spreckled back was very elegant,</span>
   <span id="f000239">it rolled its full,</span>
   <span id="f000240">dark-blue neck as it moved to her.</span>
   <span id="f000241">She crouched down.</span>
   <span id="f000242">“Joey dear,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000243">in an odd,</span>
   <span id="f000244">saturnine caressive voice:</span>
   <span id="f000245">“you’re bound to find me,</span>
   <span id="f000246">aren’t you?” She put her face downward,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and the bird rolled his neck,</span>
   <span id="f000248">almost touching her face with his beak,</span>
   <span id="f000249">as if kissing her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“He loves you,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">She twisted her face up at me with a laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Yes,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000253">“he loves me,</span>
   <span id="f000254">Joey does” – then,</span>
   <span id="f000255">to the bird – “and I love Joey,</span>
   <span id="f000256">don’t I?</span>
   <span id="f000257">I <em>do</em> love Joey.” And she smoothed his feathers for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Then she rose,</span>
   <span id="f000259">saying:</span>
   <span id="f000260">“He’s an affectionate bird.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">I smiled at the roll of her “bir-rrd.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“Oh yes,</span>
   <span id="f000263">he is,” she protested.</span>
   <span id="f000264">“He came with me from my home seven years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Those others are his descendants – but they’re not like Joey – <em>are they, </em></span>
   <span id="f000266"><em>dee-urr?</em>” Her voice rose at the end with a witch-like cry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">Then she forgot the birds in the cart-shed,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and turned to business again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Won’t you read that letter?” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000270">“Read it,</span>
   <span id="f000271">so that I know what it says.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">“It’s rather behind his back,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000274">never mind him,” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000275">“He’s been behind my back long enough.</span>
   <span id="f000276">If he never did no worse things behind my back than I do behind his,</span>
   <span id="f000277">he wouldn’t have cause to grumble.</span>
   <span id="f000278">You read me what it says.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">Now I felt a distinct reluctance to do as she bid,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and yet I began – “’My dear Alfred.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“I guessed that much,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000282">“Eliza’s dear Alfred.” She laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000283">“How do you say it in French?</span>
   <span id="f000284"><em>Eliza?</em>”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">I told her,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and she repeated the name with great contempt – <em>Elise</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“Go on,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000288">“You’re not reading.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">So I began – “’I have been thinking of you sometimes – have you been thinking of me?’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“Of several others as well,</span>
   <span id="f000291">beside her,</span>
   <span id="f000292">I’ll wager,” said Mrs.&#160;Goyte.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“Probably not,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and continued.</span>
   <span id="f000295">“’A dear little baby was born here a week ago.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000297">can I tell you my feelings when I take my darling little brother into my arms – ’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“I’ll bet it’s <em>his</em>,” cried Mrs.&#160;Goyte.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“No,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000300">“It’s her mother’s.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“Don’t you believe it,” she cried.</span>
   <span id="f000302">“It’s a blind.</span>
   <span id="f000303">You mark,</span>
   <span id="f000304">it’s her own right enough – and his.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“No,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000306">“It’s her mother’s.</span>
   <span id="f000307">’He has sweet smiling eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000308">but not like your beautiful English eyes – ’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">She suddenly struck her hand on her skirt with a wild motion,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and bent down,</span>
   <span id="f000311">doubled with laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Then she rose and covered her face with her hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“I’m forced to laugh at the beautiful English eyes,” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Aren’t his eyes beautiful?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“Oh yes – <em>very!</em> Go on!</span>
   <span id="f000316">– <em>Joey dear, </em></span>
   <span id="f000317"><em>dee-urr Joey!</em>” – this to the peacock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“ – Er – ’We miss you very much.</span>
   <span id="f000319">We all miss you.</span>
   <span id="f000320">We wish you were here to see the darling baby.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000322">Alfred,</span>
   <span id="f000323">how happy we were when you stayed with us.</span>
   <span id="f000324">We all loved you so much.</span>
   <span id="f000325">My mother will call the baby Alfred so that we shall never forget you – ’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Of course it’s his right enough,” cried Mrs.&#160;Goyte.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“No,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000328">“It’s the mother’s.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Er – ’My mother is very well.</span>
   <span id="f000330">My father came home yesterday – from Lille.</span>
   <span id="f000331">He is delighted with his son,</span>
   <span id="f000332">my little brother,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and wishes to have him named after you,</span>
   <span id="f000334">because you were so good to us all in that terrible time,</span>
   <span id="f000335">which I shall never forget.</span>
   <span id="f000336">I must weep now when I think of it.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000338">you are far away in England,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and perhaps I shall never see you again.</span>
   <span id="f000340">How did you find your dear mother and father?</span>
   <span id="f000341">I am so happy that your leg is better,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and that you can nearly walk – ’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">“How did he find his dear <em>wife!</em>” cried Mrs.&#160;Goyte.</span>
   <span id="f000344">“He never told her that he had one.</span>
   <span id="f000345">Think of taking the poor girl in like that!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">“’We are so pleased when you write to us.</span>
   <span id="f000347">Yet now you are in England you will forget the family you served so well – ’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“A bit too well – <em>eh, </em></span>
   <span id="f000349"><em>Joey!</em>” cried the wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“’If it had not been for you we should not be alive now,</span>
   <span id="f000351">to grieve and to rejoice in this life,</span>
   <span id="f000352">that is so hard for us.</span>
   <span id="f000353">But we have recovered some of our losses,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and no longer feel the burden of poverty.</span>
   <span id="f000355">The little Alfred is a great comforter to me.</span>
   <span id="f000356">I hold him to my breast and think of the big,</span>
   <span id="f000357">good Alfred,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and I weep to think that those times of suffering were perhaps the times of a great happiness that is gone for ever.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000360">but isn’t it a shame to take a poor girl in like that!” cried Mrs.&#160;Goyte.</span>
   <span id="f000361">“Never to let on that he was married,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and raise her hopes – I call it beastly,</span>
   <span id="f000363">I do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“You don’t know,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000365">“You know how anxious women are to fall in love,</span>
   <span id="f000366">wife or no wife.</span>
   <span id="f000367">How could he help it,</span>
   <span id="f000368">if she was determined to fall in love with him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“He could have helped it if he’d wanted to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">“Well,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000371">“We aren’t all heroes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000373">but that’s different!</span>
   <span id="f000374">– The big,</span>
   <span id="f000375">good Alfred!</span>
   <span id="f000376">– did you ever hear such Tommy-rot in your life?</span>
   <span id="f000377">– Go on – what does she say at the end?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">“Er – ’ We shall be pleased to hear of your life in England.</span>
   <span id="f000379">We all send many kind regards to your good parents.</span>
   <span id="f000380">I wish you all happiness for your future days.</span>
   <span id="f000381">Your very affectionate and ever-grateful Elise.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">There was silence for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000383">during which Mrs.&#160;Goyte remained with her head dropped,</span>
   <span id="f000384">sinister and abstracted.</span>
   <span id="f000385">Suddenly she lifted her face,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and her eyes flashed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000388">but I call it beastly,</span>
   <span id="f000389">I call it mean,</span>
   <span id="f000390">to take a girl in like that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“Nay,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000392">“Probably he hasn’t taken her in at all.</span>
   <span id="f000393">Do you think those French girls are such poor innocent things?</span>
   <span id="f000394">I guess she’s a great deal more downy than he.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000396">he’s one of the biggest fools that ever walked,” she cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“There you are!” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">“But it’s his child right enough,” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“I don’t think so,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">“I’m sure of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“Oh well,” I said – “if you prefer to think that way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“What other reason has she for writing like that – ?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">I went out into the road and looked at the cattle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“Who is this driving the cows?” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000405">She too came out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“It’s the boy from the next farm,” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“Oh well,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000408">“those Belgian girls!</span>
   <span id="f000409">You never know where their letters will end.</span>
   <span id="f000410">– And after all,</span>
   <span id="f000411">it’s his affair – you needn’t bother.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">“Oh – !” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000413">with rough scorn – “it’s not <em>me</em> that bothers.</span>
   <span id="f000414">But it’s the nasty meanness of it.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Me writing him such loving letters” – she put her hands before her face and laughed malevolently – “and sending him nice little cakes and bits I thought he’d fancy all the time.</span>
   <span id="f000416">You bet he fed that gurrl on my things – I know he did.</span>
   <span id="f000417">It’s just like him.</span>
   <span id="f000418">– I’ll bet they laughed together over my letters.</span>
   <span id="f000419">I’ll bet anything they did – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000420">“Nay,” said I.</span>
   <span id="f000421">“He’d burn your letters for fear they’d give him away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">There was a black look on her yellow face.</span>
   <span id="f000423">Suddenly a voice was heard calling.</span>
   <span id="f000424">She poked her head out of the shed,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and answered coolly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“All right!” Then,</span>
   <span id="f000427">turning to me:</span>
   <span id="f000428">“That’s his mother looking after me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">She laughed into my face,</span>
   <span id="f000430">witch-like,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and we turned down the road.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">When I awoke,</span>
   <span id="f000433">the morning after this episode,</span>
   <span id="f000434">I found the house darkened with deep,</span>
   <span id="f000435">soft snow,</span>
   <span id="f000436">which had blown against the large west windows,</span>
   <span id="f000437">covering them with a screen.</span>
   <span id="f000438">I went outside,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and saw the valley all white and ghastly below me,</span>
   <span id="f000440">the trees beneath black and thin looking like wire,</span>
   <span id="f000441">the rock-faces dark between the glistening shroud,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and the sky above sombre,</span>
   <span id="f000443">heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000444">yellowish-dark,</span>
   <span id="f000445">much too heavy for the world below of hollow bluey whiteness figured with black.</span>
   <span id="f000446">I felt I was in a valley of the dead.</span>
   <span id="f000447">And I sensed I was a prisoner,</span>
   <span id="f000448">for the snow was everywhere deep,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and drifted in places.</span>
   <span id="f000450">So all the morning I remained indoors,</span>
   <span id="f000451">looking up the drive at the shrubs so heavily plumed with snow,</span>
   <span id="f000452">at the gateposts raised high with a foot or more of extra whiteness.</span>
   <span id="f000453">Or I looked down into the white-and-black valley,</span>
   <span id="f000454">that was utterly motionless and beyond life,</span>
   <span id="f000455">a hollow sarcophagus.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">Nothing stirred the whole day – no plume fell off the shrubs,</span>
   <span id="f000457">the valley was as abstracted as a grove of death.</span>
   <span id="f000458">I looked over at the tiny,</span>
   <span id="f000459">half-buried farms away on the bare uplands beyond the valley hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and I thought of Tible in the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000461">of the black,</span>
   <span id="f000462">witch-like little Mrs.&#160;Goyte.</span>
   <span id="f000463">And the snow seemed to lay me bare to influences I wanted to escape.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">In the faint glow of half-clear light that came about four o’clock in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000465">I was roused to see a motion in the snow away below,</span>
   <span id="f000466">near where the thorn-trees stood very black and dwarfed,</span>
   <span id="f000467">like a little savage group,</span>
   <span id="f000468">in the dismal white.</span>
   <span id="f000469">I watched closely.</span>
   <span id="f000470">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000471">there was a flapping and a struggle – a big bird,</span>
   <span id="f000472">it must be,</span>
   <span id="f000473">labouring in the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000474">I wondered.</span>
   <span id="f000475">Our biggest birds,</span>
   <span id="f000476">in the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000477">were the large hawks that often hung flickering opposite my windows,</span>
   <span id="f000478">level with me,</span>
   <span id="f000479">but high above some prey on the steep valley-side.</span>
   <span id="f000480">This was much too big for a hawk – too big for any known bird.</span>
   <span id="f000481">I searched in my mind for the largest English wild birds – geese,</span>
   <span id="f000482">buzzards.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">Still it laboured and strove,</span>
   <span id="f000484">then was still,</span>
   <span id="f000485">a dark spot,</span>
   <span id="f000486">then struggled again.</span>
   <span id="f000487">I went out of the house and down the steep slope,</span>
   <span id="f000488">at risk of breaking my leg between the rocks.</span>
   <span id="f000489">I knew the ground so well – and yet I got well shaken before I drew near the thorn-trees.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000491">it was a bird.</span>
   <span id="f000492">It was Joey.</span>
   <span id="f000493">It was the grey-brown peacock with a blue neck.</span>
   <span id="f000494">He was snow-wet and spent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“Joey – Joey de-urr!” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000496">staggering unevenly towards him.</span>
   <span id="f000497">He looked so pathetic,</span>
   <span id="f000498">rowing and struggling in the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000499">too spent to rise,</span>
   <span id="f000500">his blue neck stretching out and lying sometimes on the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000501">his eyes closing and opening quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000502">his crest all battered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">“Joey dee-urr!</span>
   <span id="f000504">Dee-urr!” I said caressingly to him.</span>
   <span id="f000505">And at last he lay still,</span>
   <span id="f000506">blinking,</span>
   <span id="f000507">in the surged and furrowed snow,</span>
   <span id="f000508">whilst I came near and touched him,</span>
   <span id="f000509">stroked him,</span>
   <span id="f000510">gathered him under my arm.</span>
   <span id="f000511">He stretched his long,</span>
   <span id="f000512">wetted neck away from me as I held him,</span>
   <span id="f000513">none the less he was quiet in my arm,</span>
   <span id="f000514">too tired,</span>
   <span id="f000515">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000516">to struggle.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Still he held his poor,</span>
   <span id="f000518">crested head away from me,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and seemed sometimes to droop,</span>
   <span id="f000520">to wilt,</span>
   <span id="f000521">as if he might suddenly die.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">He was not so heavy as I expected,</span>
   <span id="f000523">yet it was a struggle to get up to the house with him again.</span>
   <span id="f000524">We set him down,</span>
   <span id="f000525">not too near the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and gently wiped him with cloths.</span>
   <span id="f000527">He submitted,</span>
   <span id="f000528">only now and then stretched his soft neck away from us,</span>
   <span id="f000529">avoiding us helplessly.</span>
   <span id="f000530">Then we set warm food by him.</span>
   <span id="f000531">I put it to his beak,</span>
   <span id="f000532">tried to make him eat.</span>
   <span id="f000533">But he ignored it.</span>
   <span id="f000534">He seemed to be ignorant of what we were doing,</span>
   <span id="f000535">recoiled inside himself inexplicably.</span>
   <span id="f000536">So we put him in a basket with cloths,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and left him crouching oblivious.</span>
   <span id="f000538">His food we put near him.</span>
   <span id="f000539">The blinds were drawn,</span>
   <span id="f000540">the house was warm,</span>
   <span id="f000541">it was night.</span>
   <span id="f000542">Sometimes he stirred,</span>
   <span id="f000543">but mostly he huddled still,</span>
   <span id="f000544">leaning his queer crested head on one side.</span>
   <span id="f000545">He touched no food,</span>
   <span id="f000546">and took no heed of sounds or movements.</span>
   <span id="f000547">We talked of brandy or stimulants.</span>
   <span id="f000548">But I realised we had best leave him alone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">In the night,</span>
   <span id="f000550">however,</span>
   <span id="f000551">we heard him thumping about.</span>
   <span id="f000552">I got up anxiously with a candle.</span>
   <span id="f000553">He had eaten some food,</span>
   <span id="f000554">and scattered more,</span>
   <span id="f000555">making a mess.</span>
   <span id="f000556">And he was perched on the back of a heavy arm-chair.</span>
   <span id="f000557">So I concluded he was recovered,</span>
   <span id="f000558">or recovering.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">The next day was clear,</span>
   <span id="f000560">and the snow had frozen,</span>
   <span id="f000561">so I decided to carry him back to Tible.</span>
   <span id="f000562">He consented,</span>
   <span id="f000563">after various flappings,</span>
   <span id="f000564">to sit in a big fish-bag with his battered head peeping out with wild uneasiness.</span>
   <span id="f000565">And so I set off with him,</span>
   <span id="f000566">slithering down into the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000567">making good progress down in the pale shadows beside the rushing waters,</span>
   <span id="f000568">then climbing painfully up the arrested white valley-side,</span>
   <span id="f000569">plumed with clusters of young pine-trees,</span>
   <span id="f000570">into the paler white radiance of the snowy upper regions,</span>
   <span id="f000571">where the wind cut fine.</span>
   <span id="f000572">Joey seemed to watch all the time with wide,</span>
   <span id="f000573">anxious,</span>
   <span id="f000574">unseeing eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000575">brilliant and inscrutable.</span>
   <span id="f000576">As I drew near to Tible township,</span>
   <span id="f000577">he stirred violently in the bag,</span>
   <span id="f000578">though I do not know if he had recognised the place.</span>
   <span id="f000579">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000580">as I came to the sheds,</span>
   <span id="f000581">he looked sharply from side to side,</span>
   <span id="f000582">and stretched his neck out long.</span>
   <span id="f000583">I was a little afraid of him.</span>
   <span id="f000584">He gave a loud,</span>
   <span id="f000585">vehement yell,</span>
   <span id="f000586">opening his sinister beak,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and I stood still,</span>
   <span id="f000588">looking at him as he struggled in the bag,</span>
   <span id="f000589">shaken myself by his struggles,</span>
   <span id="f000590">yet not thinking to release him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">Mrs.&#160;Goyte came darting past the end of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000592">her head sticking forward in sharp scrutiny.</span>
   <span id="f000593">She saw me,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and came forward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">“Have you got Joey?” she cried sharply,</span>
   <span id="f000596">as if I were a thief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">I opened the bag,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and he flopped out,</span>
   <span id="f000599">flapping as if he hated the touch of the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000600">now.</span>
   <span id="f000601">She gathered him up and put her lips to his beak.</span>
   <span id="f000602">She was flushed and handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000603">her eyes bright,</span>
   <span id="f000604">her hair slack,</span>
   <span id="f000605">thick,</span>
   <span id="f000606">but more witch-like than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000607">She did not speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000608">She had been followed by a grey-haired woman with a round,</span>
   <span id="f000609">rather sallow face and a slightly hostile bearing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">“Did you bring him with you,</span>
   <span id="f000611">then?” she asked sharply.</span>
   <span id="f000612">I answered that I had rescued him the previous evening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">From the background slowly approached a slender man with a grey moustache and large patches on his trousers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">“You’ve got ’im back ’gain,</span>
   <span id="f000615">Ah see,” he said to his daughter-in-law.</span>
   <span id="f000616">His wife explained how I had found Joey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">“Ah,” went on the grey man.</span>
   <span id="f000618">“It wor our Alfred scarred him off,</span>
   <span id="f000619">back your life.</span>
   <span id="f000620">He must ’a’ flyed ower t’ valley.</span>
   <span id="f000621">Tha ma’ thank thy stars as ’e wor fun,</span>
   <span id="f000622">Maggie.</span>
   <span id="f000623">’E’d a bin froze.</span>
   <span id="f000624">They a bit nesh,</span>
   <span id="f000625">you know,” he concluded to me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">“They are,” I answered.</span>
   <span id="f000627">“This isn’t their country.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000628">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000629">it isna,” replied Mr.&#160;Goyte.</span>
   <span id="f000630">He spoke very slowly and deliberately,</span>
   <span id="f000631">quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000632">as if the soft pedal were always down in his voice.</span>
   <span id="f000633">He looked at his daughter-in-law as she crouched,</span>
   <span id="f000634">flushed and dark,</span>
   <span id="f000635">before the peacock,</span>
   <span id="f000636">which would lay its long blue neck for a moment along her lap.</span>
   <span id="f000637">In spite of his grey moustache and thin grey hair,</span>
   <span id="f000638">the elderly man had a face young and almost delicate,</span>
   <span id="f000639">like a young man’s.</span>
   <span id="f000640">His blue eyes twinkled with some inscrutable source of pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f000641">his skin was fine and tender,</span>
   <span id="f000642">his nose delicately arched.</span>
   <span id="f000643">His grey hair being slightly ruffled,</span>
   <span id="f000644">he had a debonnair look,</span>
   <span id="f000645">as of a youth who is in love.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“We mun tell ’im it’s come,” he said slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000647">and turning he called:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">“Alfred – Alfred!</span>
   <span id="f000649">Wheer’s ter gotten to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">Then he turned again to the group.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">“Get up,</span>
   <span id="f000652">then,</span>
   <span id="f000653">Maggie,</span>
   <span id="f000654">lass,</span>
   <span id="f000655">get up wi’ thee.</span>
   <span id="f000656">Tha ma’es too much o’ th’ bod.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000657">A young man approached,</span>
   <span id="f000658">limping,</span>
   <span id="f000659">wearing a thick short coat and knee-breeches.</span>
   <span id="f000660">He was Danish-looking,</span>
   <span id="f000661">broad at the loins.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">“I’s come back,</span>
   <span id="f000663">then,” said the father to the son – “leastwise,</span>
   <span id="f000664">he’s bin browt back,</span>
   <span id="f000665">flyed ower the Griff Low.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">The son looked at me.</span>
   <span id="f000667">He had a devil-may-care bearing,</span>
   <span id="f000668">his cap on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000669">his hands stuck in the front pockets of his breeches.</span>
   <span id="f000670">But he said nothing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">“Shall you come in a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000672">Master?” said the elderly woman,</span>
   <span id="f000673">to me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">“Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000675">come in an’ ha’e a cup o’ tea or summat.</span>
   <span id="f000676">You’ll do wi’ summat,</span>
   <span id="f000677">carryin’ that bod.</span>
   <span id="f000678">Come on,</span>
   <span id="f000679">Maggie wench,</span>
   <span id="f000680">let’s go in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">So we went indoors,</span>
   <span id="f000682">into the rather stuffy,</span>
   <span id="f000683">overcrowded living-room,</span>
   <span id="f000684">that was too cosy and too warm.</span>
   <span id="f000685">The son followed last,</span>
   <span id="f000686">standing in the doorway.</span>
   <span id="f000687">The father talked to me.</span>
   <span id="f000688">Maggie put out the tea-cups.</span>
   <span id="f000689">The mother went into the dairy again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">“Tha’lt rouse thysen up a bit again now,</span>
   <span id="f000691">Maggie,” the father-in-law said – and then to me:</span>
   <span id="f000692">“’Er’s not bin very bright sin’ Alfred come whoam,</span>
   <span id="f000693">an’ the bod flyed awee.</span>
   <span id="f000694">’E come whoam a Wednesday night,</span>
   <span id="f000695">Alfred did.</span>
   <span id="f000696">But ay,</span>
   <span id="f000697">you knowed,</span>
   <span id="f000698">didna yer.</span>
   <span id="f000699">Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000700">’e comed ’a Wednesday – an’ I reckon there wor a bit of a to-do between ’em,</span>
   <span id="f000701">worn’t there,</span>
   <span id="f000702">Maggie?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">He twinkled maliciously to his daughter-in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000704">who was flushed brilliant and handsome.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000705">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000706">be quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000707">father.</span>
   <span id="f000708">You’re wound up,</span>
   <span id="f000709">by the sound of you,” she said to him,</span>
   <span id="f000710">as if crossly.</span>
   <span id="f000711">But she could never be cross with him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">“’Er’s got ’er colour back this mornin’,” continued the father-in-law slowly.</span>
   <span id="f000713">“It’s bin heavy weather wi’ ’er this last two days.</span>
   <span id="f000714">Ay – ’er’s bin north-east sin ’er seed you a Wednesday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Father,</span>
   <span id="f000716">do stop talking.</span>
   <span id="f000717">You’d wear the leg off an iron pot.</span>
   <span id="f000718">I can’t think where you’ve found your tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000719">all of a sudden,” said Maggie,</span>
   <span id="f000720">with caressive sharpness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">“Ah’ve found it wheer I lost it.</span>
   <span id="f000722">Aren’t goin’ ter come in an’ sit thee down,</span>
   <span id="f000723">Alfred?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">But Alfred turned and disappeared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“’E’s got th’ monkey on ’is back,</span>
   <span id="f000726">ower this letter job,” said the father secretly to me.</span>
   <span id="f000727">“Mother ’er knows nowt about it.</span>
   <span id="f000728">Lot o’ tomfoolery,</span>
   <span id="f000729">isn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000730">Ay!</span>
   <span id="f000731">What’s good o’ makin’ a peck o’ trouble ower what’s far enough off,</span>
   <span id="f000732">an’ ned niver come no nigher.</span>
   <span id="f000733">No – not a smite o’ use.</span>
   <span id="f000734">That’s what I tell ’er.</span>
   <span id="f000735">’Er should ta’e no notice on’t.</span>
   <span id="f000736">Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000737">what can y’expect.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000738">The mother came in again,</span>
   <span id="f000739">and the talk became general.</span>
   <span id="f000740">Maggie flashed her eyes at me from time to time,</span>
   <span id="f000741">complacent and satisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000742">moving among the men.</span>
   <span id="f000743">I paid her little compliments,</span>
   <span id="f000744">which she did not seem to hear.</span>
   <span id="f000745">She attended to me with a kind of sinister,</span>
   <span id="f000746">witch-like gracious-ness,</span>
   <span id="f000747">her dark head ducked between her shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000748">at once humble and powerful.</span>
   <span id="f000749">She was happy as a child attending to her father-in-law and to me.</span>
   <span id="f000750">But there was something ominous between her eyebrows,</span>
   <span id="f000751">as if a dark moth were settled there – and something ominous in her bent,</span>
   <span id="f000752">hulking bearing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">She sat on a low stool by the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000754">near her father-in-law.</span>
   <span id="f000755">Her head was dropped,</span>
   <span id="f000756">she seemed in a state of abstraction.</span>
   <span id="f000757">From time to time she would suddenly recover,</span>
   <span id="f000758">and look up at us,</span>
   <span id="f000759">laughing and chatting.</span>
   <span id="f000760">Then she would forget again.</span>
   <span id="f000761">Yet in her hulked black forgetting she seemed very near to us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">The door having been opened,</span>
   <span id="f000763">the peacock came slowly in,</span>
   <span id="f000764">prancing calmly.</span>
   <span id="f000765">He went near to her,</span>
   <span id="f000766">and crouched down,</span>
   <span id="f000767">coiling his blue neck.</span>
   <span id="f000768">She glanced at him,</span>
   <span id="f000769">but almost as if she did not observe him.</span>
   <span id="f000770">The bird sat silent,</span>
   <span id="f000771">seeming to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000772">and the woman also sat huddled and silent,</span>
   <span id="f000773">seeming oblivious.</span>
   <span id="f000774">Then once more there was a heavy step,</span>
   <span id="f000775">and Alfred entered.</span>
   <span id="f000776">He looked at his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000777">and he looked at the peacock crouching by her.</span>
   <span id="f000778">He stood large in the doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000779">his hands stuck in front of him,</span>
   <span id="f000780">in his breeches pockets.</span>
   <span id="f000781">Nobody spoke.</span>
   <span id="f000782">He turned on his heel and went out again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000783">I rose also to go.</span>
   <span id="f000784">Maggie started as if coming to herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">“Must you go?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000786">rising and coming near to me,</span>
   <span id="f000787">standing in front of me,</span>
   <span id="f000788">twisting her head sideways and looking up at me.</span>
   <span id="f000789">“Can’t you stop a bit longer?</span>
   <span id="f000790">We can all be cosy to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000791">there’s nothing to do outdoors.” And she laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000792">showing her teeth oddly.</span>
   <span id="f000793">She had a long chin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">I said I must go.</span>
   <span id="f000795">The peacock uncoiled and coiled again his long blue neck as he lay on the hearth.</span>
   <span id="f000796">Maggie still stood close in front of me,</span>
   <span id="f000797">so that I was acutely aware of my waistcoat buttons.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000798">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000799">well,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000800">“you’ll come again,</span>
   <span id="f000801">won’t you?</span>
   <span id="f000802">Do come again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000803">I promised.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“Come to tea one day – yes,</span>
   <span id="f000805">do!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">I promised – one day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000807">The moment I was out of her presence I ceased utterly to exist for her – as utterly as I ceased to exist for Joey.</span>
   <span id="f000808">With her curious abstractedness she forgot me again immediately.</span>
   <span id="f000809">I knew it as I left her.</span>
   <span id="f000810">Yet she seemed almost in physical contact with me while I was with her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">The sky was all pallid again,</span>
   <span id="f000812">yellowish.</span>
   <span id="f000813">When I went out there was no sun;</span>
   <span id="f000814">the snow was blue and cold.</span>
   <span id="f000815">I hurried away down the hill,</span>
   <span id="f000816">musing on Maggie.</span>
   <span id="f000817">The road made a loop down the sharp face of the slope.</span>
   <span id="f000818">As I went crunching over the laborious snow I became aware of a figure striding awkwardly down the steep scarp to intercept me.</span>
   <span id="f000819">It was a man with his hands in front of him,</span>
   <span id="f000820">half stuck in his breeches pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000821">and his shoulders square – a real knock-about fellow.</span>
   <span id="f000822">Alfred,</span>
   <span id="f000823">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000824">He waited for me by the stone fence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000825">“Excuse me,” he said as I came up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000826">I came to a halt in front of him and looked into his sullen blue eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000827">He had a certain odd haughtiness on his brows.</span>
   <span id="f000828">But his blue eyes stared insolently at me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">“Do you know anything about a letter – in French – that my wife opened – a letter of mine?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">“Yes,” said I.</span>
   <span id="f000831">“She asked me to read it to her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000832">He looked square at me.</span>
   <span id="f000833">He did not know exactly how to feel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000834">“What was there in it?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000835">“Why?” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000836">“Don’t you know?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">“She makes out she’s burnt it,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000838">“Without showing it you?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">He nodded slightly.</span>
   <span id="f000840">He seemed to be meditating as to what line of action he should take.</span>
   <span id="f000841">He wanted to know the contents of the letter:</span>
   <span id="f000842">he must know:</span>
   <span id="f000843">and therefore he must ask me,</span>
   <span id="f000844">for evidently his wife had taunted him.</span>
   <span id="f000845">At the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000846">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000847">he would like to wreak untold vengeance on my unfortunate person.</span>
   <span id="f000848">So he eyed me,</span>
   <span id="f000849">and I eyed him,</span>
   <span id="f000850">and neither of us spoke.</span>
   <span id="f000851">He did not want to repeat his request to me.</span>
   <span id="f000852">And yet I only looked at him,</span>
   <span id="f000853">and considered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000854">Suddenly he threw back his head and glanced down the valley.</span>
   <span id="f000855">Then he changed his position and he looked at me more confidentially.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000856">“She burnt the blasted thing before I saw it,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000857">“Well,” I answered slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000858">“she doesn’t know herself what was in it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000859">He continued to watch me narrowly.</span>
   <span id="f000860">I grinned to myself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000861">“I didn’t like to read her out what there was in it,” I continued.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000862">He suddenly flushed out so that the veins in his neck stood out,</span>
   <span id="f000863">and he stirred again uncomfortably.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000864">“The Belgian girl said her baby had been born a week ago,</span>
   <span id="f000865">and that they were going to call it Alfred,” I told him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000866">He met my eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000867">I was grinning.</span>
   <span id="f000868">He began to grin,</span>
   <span id="f000869">too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000870">“Good luck to her,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000871">“Best of luck,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">“And what did you tell <em>her</em>?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000873">“That the baby belonged to the old mother – that it was brother to your girl,</span>
   <span id="f000874">who was writing to you as a friend of the family.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000875">He stood smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000876">with the long,</span>
   <span id="f000877">subtle malice of a farmer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000878">“And did she take it in?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000879">“As much as she took anything else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000880">He stood grinning fixedly.</span>
   <span id="f000881">Then he broke into a short laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">“Good for <em>her</em>!” he exclaimed cryptically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000883">And then he laughed aloud once more,</span>
   <span id="f000884">evidently feeling he had won a big move in his contest with his wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000885">“What about the other woman?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">“Who?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000887">“Elise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">“Oh” – he shifted uneasily – “she was all right – – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000889">“You’ll be getting back to her,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">He looked at me.</span>
   <span id="f000891">Then he made a grimace with his mouth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000892">“Not me,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000893">“Back your life it’s a plant.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000894">“You don’t think the <em>cher petit bébé</em> is a little Alfred?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000895">“It might be,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000896">“Only might?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000897">“Yes – an’ there’s lots of mites in a pound of cheese.” He laughed boisterously but uneasily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000898">“What did she say,</span>
   <span id="f000899">exactly?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000900">I began to repeat,</span>
   <span id="f000901">as well as I could,</span>
   <span id="f000902">the phrases of the letter:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000903">“Mon cher Alfred,</span>
   <span id="f000904">– Figure-toi comme je suis désolée – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">He listened with some confusion.</span>
   <span id="f000906">When I had finished all I could remember,</span>
   <span id="f000907">he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000908">“They know how to pitch you out a letter,</span>
   <span id="f000909">those Belgian lasses.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000910">“Practice,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">“They get plenty,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000912">There was a pause.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000913">“Oh well,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000914">“I’ve never got that letter,</span>
   <span id="f000915">anyhow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000916">The wind blew fine and keen,</span>
   <span id="f000917">in the sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000918">across the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000919">I blew my nose and prepared to depart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000920">“And <em>she</em> doesn’t know anything?” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000921">jerking his head up the hill in the direction of Tible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000922">“She knows nothing but what I’ve said – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000923">if she really burnt the letter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000924">“I believe she burnt it,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000925">“for spite.</span>
   <span id="f000926">She’s a little devil,</span>
   <span id="f000927">she is.</span>
   <span id="f000928">But I shall have it out with her.” His jaw was stubborn and sullen.</span>
   <span id="f000929">Then suddenly he turned to me with a new note.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000930">“Why?” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000931">“Why didn’t you wring that b – peacock’s neck – that b – Joey?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000932">“Why?” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000933">“What for?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">“I hate the brute,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000935">“I let fly at him the night I got back – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000936">I laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000937">He stood and mused.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000938">“Poor little Elise,” he murmured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">“Was she small – petite?” I asked.</span>
   <span id="f000940">He jerked up his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">“No,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000942">“Rather tall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000943">“Taller than your wife,</span>
   <span id="f000944">I suppose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000945">Again he looked into my eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000946">And then once more he went into a loud burst of laughter that made the still,</span>
   <span id="f000947">snow-deserted valley clap again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000948">“God,</span>
   <span id="f000949">it’s a knockout!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000950">thoroughly amused.</span>
   <span id="f000951">Then he stood at ease,</span>
   <span id="f000952">one foot out,</span>
   <span id="f000953">his hands in his breeches pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000954">in front of him,</span>
   <span id="f000955">his head thrown back,</span>
   <span id="f000956">a handsome figure of a man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000957">“But I’ll do that blasted Joey in – ” he mused,</span>
   <span id="f000958">I ran down the hill,</span>
   <span id="f000959">shouting also with laughter.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

