<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle">Chapter I</h1>
   <p><span id="f000001">After dark on Saturday night one could stand on the first tee of the golf-course and see the country-club windows as a yellow expanse over a very black and wavy ocean.</span> 
    <span id="f000002">The waves of this ocean,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">so to speak,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">were the heads of many curious caddies,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">a few of the more ingenious chauffeurs,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">the golf professional’s deaf sister –</span> 
    <span id="f000007">and there were usually several stray,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">diffident waves who might have rolled inside had they so desired.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">This was the gallery.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">The balcony was inside.</span> 
    <span id="f000011">It consisted of the circle of wicker chairs that lined the wall of the combination clubroom and ballroom.</span> 
    <span id="f000012">At these Saturday-night dances it was largely feminine;</span> 
    <span id="f000013">a great babel of middle-aged ladies with sharp eyes and icy hearts behind lorgnettes and large bosoms.</span> 
    <span id="f000014">The main function of the balcony was critical,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">it occasionally showed grudging admiration,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">but never approval,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">for it is well known among ladies over thirty-five that when the younger set dance in the summer-time it is with the very worst intentions in the world,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">and if they are not bombarded with stony eyes stray couples will dance weird barbaric interludes in the corners,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">and the more popular,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">more dangerous,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">girls will sometimes be kissed in the parked limousines of unsuspecting dowagers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000022">But,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">after all,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">this critical circle is not close enough to the stage to see the actors’ faces and catch the subtler byplay.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">It can only frown and lean,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">ask questions and make satisfactory deductions from its set of postulates,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">such as the one which states that every young man with a large income leads the life of a hunted partridge.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">It never really appreciates the drama of the shifting,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">semi-cruel world of adolescence.</span> 
    <span id="f000030">No;</span> 
    <span id="f000031">boxes,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">orchestra-circle,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">principals,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">and chorus be represented by the medley of faces and voices that sway to the plaintive African rhythm of Dyer’s dance orchestra.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000035">From sixteen-year-old Otis Ormonde,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">who has two more years at Hill School,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">to G.&#160;Reece Stoddard,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">over whose bureau at home hangs a Harvard law diploma;</span> 
    <span id="f000039">from little Madeleine Hogue,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">whose hair still feels strange and uncomfortable on top of her head,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">to Bessie MacRae,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">who has been the life of the party a little too long –</span> 
    <span id="f000043">more than ten years –</span> 
    <span id="f000044">the medley is not only the centre of the stage but contains the only people capable of getting an unobstructed view of it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000045">With a flourish and a bang the music stops.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">The couples exchange artificial,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">effortless smiles,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">facetiously repeat «LA-de-DA-DA dum-DUM,» and then the clatter of young feminine voices soars over the burst of clapping.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">A few disappointed stags caught in midfloor as they had been about to cut in subsided listlessly back to the walls,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">because this was not like the riotous Christmas dances –</span> 
    <span id="f000051">these summer hops were considered just pleasantly warm and exciting,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">where even the younger marrieds rose and performed ancient waltzes and terrifying fox trots to the tolerant amusement of their younger brothers and sisters.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">Warren McIntyre,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">who casually attended Yale,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">being one of the unfortunate stags,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">felt in his dinner-coat pocket for a cigarette and strolled out onto the wide,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">semidark veranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">where couples were scattered at tables,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">filling the lantern-hung night with vague words and hazy laughter.</span> 
    <span id="f000060">He nodded here and there at the less absorbed and as he passed each couple some half-forgotten fragment of a story played in his mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">for it was not a large city and every one was Who’s Who to every one else’s past.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">There,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">for example,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">were Jim Strain and Ethel Demorest,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">who had been privately engaged for three years.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">Every one knew that as soon as Jim managed to hold a job for more than two months she would marry him.</span> 
    <span id="f000067">Yet how bored they both looked,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and how wearily Ethel regarded Jim sometimes,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">as if she wondered why she had trained the vines of her affection on such a wind-shaken poplar.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">Warren was nineteen and rather pitying with those of his friends who hadn’t gone East to college.</span> 
    <span id="f000071">But,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">like most boys,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">he bragged tremendously about the girls of his city when he was away from it.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">There was Genevieve Ormonde,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">who regularly made the rounds of dances,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">house-parties,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">and football games at Princeton,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">Yale,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">Williams,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and Cornell;</span> 
    <span id="f000081">there was black-eyed Roberta Dillon,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">who was quite as famous to her own generation as Hiram Johnson or Ty Cobb;</span> 
    <span id="f000083">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">of course,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">there was Marjorie Harvey,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">who besides having a fairylike face and a dazzling,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">bewildering tongue was already justly celebrated for having turned five cart-wheels in succession during the last pump-and-slipper dance at New Haven.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">Warren,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">who had grown up across the street from Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">had long been «crazy about her.» Sometimes she seemed to reciprocate his feeling with a faint gratitude,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">but she had tried him by her infallible test and informed him gravely that she did not love him.</span> 
    <span id="f000092">Her test was that when she was away from him she forgot him and had affairs with other boys.</span> 
    <span id="f000093">Warren found this discouraging,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">especially as Marjorie had been making little trips all summer,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">and for the first two or three days after each arrival home he saw great heaps of mail on the Harveys’ hall table addressed to her in various masculine handwritings.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">To make matters worse,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">all during the month of August she had been visited by her cousin Bernice from Eau Claire,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">and it seemed impossible to see her alone.</span> 
    <span id="f000099">It was always necessary to hunt round and find some one to take care of Bernice.</span> 
    <span id="f000100">As August waned this was becoming more and more difficult.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000101">Much as Warren worshipped Marjorie he had to admit that Cousin Bernice was sorta dopeless.</span> 
    <span id="f000102">She was pretty,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">with dark hair and high color,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">but she was no fun on a party.</span> 
    <span id="f000105">Every Saturday night he danced a long arduous duty dance with her to please Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">but he had never been anything but bored in her company.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000107">«Warren»—a soft voice at his elbow broke in upon his thoughts,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">and he turned to see Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">flushed and radiant as usual.</span> 
    <span id="f000110">She laid a hand on his shoulder and a glow settled almost imperceptibly over him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000111">«Warren,» she whispered «do something for me –</span> 
    <span id="f000112">dance with Bernice.</span> 
    <span id="f000113">She’s been stuck with little Otis Ormonde for almost an hour.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000114">Warren’s glow faded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000115">«Why –</span> 
    <span id="f000116">sure,» he answered half-heartedly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000117">«You don’t mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">do you?</span> 
    <span id="f000119">I’ll see that you don’t get stuck.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000120">«’Sall right.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">Marjorie smiled –</span> 
    <span id="f000122">that smile that was thanks enough.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">«You’re an angel,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and I’m obliged loads.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000125">With a sigh the angel glanced round the veranda,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">but Bernice and Otis were not in sight.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">He wandered back inside,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">and there in front of the women’s dressing-room he found Otis in the centre of a group of young men who were convulsed with laughter.</span> 
    <span id="f000129">Otis was brandishing a piece of timber he had picked up,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">and discoursing volubly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000131">«She’s gone in to fix her hair,» he announced wildly.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">«I’m waiting to dance another hour with her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000133">Their laughter was renewed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000134">«Why don’t some of you cut in?» cried Otis resentfully.</span> 
    <span id="f000135">«She likes more variety.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000136">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">Otis,» suggested a friend «you’ve just barely got used to her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000138">«Why the two-by-four,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">Otis?» inquired Warren,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">smiling.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000141">«The two-by-four?</span> 
    <span id="f000142">Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">this?</span> 
    <span id="f000144">This is a club.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">When she comes out I’ll hit her on the head and knock her in again.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000146">Warren collapsed on a settee and howled with glee.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000147">«Never mind,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">Otis,» he articulated finally.</span> 
    <span id="f000149">«I’m relieving you this time.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000150">Otis simulated a sudden fainting attack and handed the stick to Warren.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000151">«If you need it,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">old man,» he said hoarsely.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">No matter how beautiful or brilliant a girl may be,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">the reputation of not being frequently cut in on makes her position at a dance unfortunate.</span> 
    <span id="f000155">Perhaps boys prefer her company to that of the butterflies with whom they dance a dozen times an but,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">youth in this jazz-nourished generation is temperamentally restless,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">and the idea of fox-trotting more than one full fox trot with the same girl is distasteful,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">not to say odious.</span> 
    <span id="f000159">When it comes to several dances and the intermissions between she can be quite sure that a young man,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">once relieved,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">will never tread on her wayward toes again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000162">Warren danced the next full dance with Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">and finally,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">thankful for the intermission,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">he led her to a table on the veranda.</span> 
    <span id="f000166">There was a moment’s silence while she did unimpressive things with her fan.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000167">«It’s hotter here than in Eau Claire,» she said.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000168">Warren stifled a sigh and nodded.</span> 
    <span id="f000169">It might be for all he knew or cared.</span> 
    <span id="f000170">He wondered idly whether she was a poor conversationalist because she got no attention or got no attention because she was a poor conversationalist.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000171">«You going to be here much longer?» he asked and then turned rather red.</span> 
    <span id="f000172">She might suspect his reasons for asking.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000173">«Another week,» she answered,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">and stared at him as if to lunge at his next remark when it left his lips.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000175">Warren fidgeted.</span> 
    <span id="f000176">Then with a sudden charitable impulse he decided to try part of his line on her.</span> 
    <span id="f000177">He turned and looked at her eyes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">«You’ve got an awfully kissable mouth,» he began quietly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000179">This was a remark that he sometimes made to girls at college proms when they were talking in just such half dark as this.</span> 
    <span id="f000180">Bernice distinctly jumped.</span> 
    <span id="f000181">She turned an ungraceful red and became clumsy with her fan.</span> 
    <span id="f000182">No one had ever made such a remark to her before.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000183">«Fresh!»—the word had slipped out before she realized it,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">and she bit her lip.</span> 
    <span id="f000185">Too late she decided to be amused,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">and offered him a flustered smile.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000187">Warren was annoyed.</span> 
    <span id="f000188">Though not accustomed to have that remark taken seriously,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">still it usually provoked a laugh or a paragraph of sentimental banter.</span> 
    <span id="f000190">And he hated to be called fresh,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">except in a joking way.</span> 
    <span id="f000192">His charitable impulse died and he switched the topic.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000193">«Jim Strain and Ethel Demorest sitting out as usual,» he commented.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000194">This was more in Bernice’s line,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">but a faint regret mingled with her relief as the subject changed.</span> 
    <span id="f000196">Men did not talk to her about kissable mouths,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">but she knew that they talked in some such way to other girls.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000198">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">yes,» she said,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">and laughed.</span> 
    <span id="f000201">«I hear they’ve been mooning around for years without a red penny.</span> 
    <span id="f000202">Isn’t it silly?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000203">Warren’s disgust increased.</span> 
    <span id="f000204">Jim Strain was a close friend of his brother’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">and anyway he considered it bad form to sneer at people for not having money.</span> 
    <span id="f000206">But Bernice had had no intention of sneering.</span> 
    <span id="f000207">She was merely nervous.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>