<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter II</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">When Marjorie and Bernice reached home at half after midnight they said good night at the top of the stairs.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">Though cousins,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">they were not intimates.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">As a matter of fact Marjorie had no female intimates –</span> 
    <span id="f000006">she considered girls stupid.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">Bernice on the contrary all through this parent-arranged visit had rather longed to exchange those confidences flavored with giggles and tears that she considered an indispensable factor in all feminine intercourse.</span> 
    <span id="f000008">But in this respect she found Marjorie rather cold;</span> 
    <span id="f000009">felt somehow the same difficulty in talking to her that she had in talking to men.</span> 
    <span id="f000010">Marjorie never giggled,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">was never frightened,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">seldom embarrassed,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">and in fact had very few of the qualities which Bernice considered appropriately and blessedly feminine.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000014">As Bernice busied herself with tooth-brush and paste this night she wondered for the hundredth time why she never had any attention when she was away from home.</span> 
    <span id="f000015">That her family were the wealthiest in Eau Claire;</span> 
    <span id="f000016">that her mother entertained tremendously,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">gave little diners for her daughter before all dances and bought her a car of her own to drive round in,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">never occurred to her as factors in her home-town social success.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">Like most girls she had been brought up on the warm milk prepared by Annie Fellows Johnston and on novels in which the female was beloved because of certain mysterious womanly qualities always mentioned but never displayed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000020">Bernice felt a vague pain that she was not at present engaged in being popular.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">She did not know that had it not been for Marjorie’s campaigning she would have danced the entire evening with one man;</span> 
    <span id="f000022">but she knew that even in Eau Claire other girls with less position and less pulchritude were given a much bigger rush.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">She attributed this to something subtly unscrupulous in those girls.</span> 
    <span id="f000024">It had never worried her,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">and if it had her mother would have assured her that the other girls cheapened themselves and that men really respected girls like Bernice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">She turned out the light in her bathroom,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">and on an impulse decided to go in and chat for a moment with her aunt Josephine,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">whose light was still on.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">Her soft slippers bore her noiselessly down the carpeted hall,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">but hearing voices inside she stopped near the partly openers door.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">Then she caught her own name,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">and without any definite intention of eavesdropping lingered –</span> 
    <span id="f000033">and the thread of the conversation going on inside pierced her consciousness sharply as if it had been drawn through with a needle.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000034">«She’s absolutely hopeless!» It was Marjorie’s voice.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">I know what you’re going to say!</span> 
    <span id="f000037">So many people have told you how pretty and sweet she is,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">and how she can cook!</span> 
    <span id="f000039">What of it?</span> 
    <span id="f000040">She has a bum time.</span> 
    <span id="f000041">Men don’t like her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000042">«What’s a little cheap popularity?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">Mrs.&#160;Harvey sounded annoyed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">«It’s everything when you’re eighteen,» said Marjorie emphatically.</span> 
    <span id="f000045">«I’ve done my best.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">I’ve been polite and I’ve made men dance with her,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">but they just won’t stand being bored.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">When I think of that gorgeous coloring wasted on such a ninny,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">and think what Martha Carey could do with it –</span> 
    <span id="f000050">oh!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000051">«There’s no courtesy these days.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000052">Mrs.&#160;Harvey’s voice implied that modern situations were too much for her.</span> 
    <span id="f000053">When she was a girl all young ladies who belonged to nice families had glorious times.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000054">«Well,» said Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">«no girl can permanently bolster up a lame-duck visitor,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">because these days it’s every girl for herself.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">I’ve even tried to drop hints about clothes and things,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">and she’s been furious –</span> 
    <span id="f000059">given me the funniest looks.</span> 
    <span id="f000060">She’s sensitive enough to know she’s not getting away with much,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">but I’ll bet she consoles herself by thinking that she’s very virtuous and that I’m too gay and fickle and will come to a bad end.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">All unpopular girls think that way.</span> 
    <span id="f000063">Sour grapes!</span> 
    <span id="f000064">Sarah Hopkins refers to Genevieve and Roberta and me as gardenia girls!</span> 
    <span id="f000065">I’ll bet she’d give ten years of her life and her European education to be a gardenia girl and have three or four men in love with her and be cut in on every few feet at dances.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000066">«It seems to me,» interrupted Mrs.&#160;Harvey rather wearily,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">«that you ought to be able to do something for Bernice.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">I know she’s not very vivacious.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">Marjorie groaned.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">«Vivacious!</span> 
    <span id="f000071">Good grief!</span> 
    <span id="f000072">I’ve never heard her say anything to a boy except that it’s hot or the floor’s crowded or that she’s going to school in New York next year.</span> 
    <span id="f000073">Sometimes she asks them what kind of car they have and tells them the kind she has.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">Thrilling!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000075">There was a short silence and then Mrs.&#160;Harvey took up her refrain:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000076">«All I know is that other girls not half so sweet and attractive get partners.</span> 
    <span id="f000077">Martha Carey,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">for instance,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">is stout and loud,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and her mother is distinctly common.</span> 
    <span id="f000081">Roberta Dillon is so thin this year that she looks as though Arizona were the place for her.</span> 
    <span id="f000082">She’s dancing herself to death.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000083">«But,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">mother,» objected Marjorie impatiently,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">«Martha is cheerful and awfully witty and an awfully slick girl,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and Roberta’s a marvellous dancer.</span> 
    <span id="f000087">She’s been popular for ages!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">Mrs.&#160;Harvey yawned.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000089">«I think it’s that crazy Indian blood in Bernice,» continued Marjorie.</span> 
    <span id="f000090">«Maybe she’s a reversion to type.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">Indian women all just sat round and never said anything.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000092">«Go to bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">you silly child,» laughed Mrs.&#160;Harvey.</span> 
    <span id="f000094">«I wouldn’t have told you that if I’d thought you were going to remember it.</span> 
    <span id="f000095">And I think most of your ideas are perfectly idiotic,» she finished sleepily.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000096">There was another silence,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">while Marjorie considered whether or not convincing her mother was worth the trouble.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">People over forty can seldom be permanently convinced of anything.</span> 
    <span id="f000099">At eighteen our convictions are hills from which we look;</span> 
    <span id="f000100">at forty-five they are caves in which we hide.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000101">Having decided this,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">Marjorie said good night.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">When she came out into the hall it was quite empty.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>