<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter III</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">While Marjorie was breakfasting late next day Bernice came into the room with a rather formal good morning,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">sat down opposite,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">stared intently over and slightly moistened her lips.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000005">«What’s on your mind?» inquired Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">rather puzzled.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000007">Bernice paused before she threw her hand-grenade.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000008">«I heard what you said about me to your mother last night.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000009">Marjorie was startled,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">but she showed only a faintly heightened color and her voice was quite even when she spoke.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000011">«Where were you?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000012">«In the hall.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">I didn’t mean to listen –</span> 
    <span id="f000014">at first.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000015">After an involuntary look of contempt Marjorie dropped her eyes and became very interested in balancing a stray corn-flake on her finger.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">«I guess I’d better go back to Eau Claire –</span> 
    <span id="f000017">if I’m such a nuisance.» Bernice’s lower lip was trembling violently and she continued on a wavering note:</span> 
    <span id="f000018">«I’ve tried to be nice,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">and –</span> 
    <span id="f000020">and I’ve been first neglected and then insulted.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">No one ever visited me and got such treatment.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000022">Marjorie was silent.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000023">«But I’m in the way,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">I see.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">I’m a drag on you.</span> 
    <span id="f000026">Your friends don’t like me.» She paused,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">and then remembered another one of her grievances.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">«Of course I was furious last week when you tried to hint to me that that dress was unbecoming.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">Don’t you think I know how to dress myself?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">«No,» murmured less than half-aloud.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000031">«What?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">«I didn’t hint anything,» said Marjorie succinctly.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">«I said,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">as I remember,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">that it was better to wear a becoming dress three times straight than to alternate it with two frights.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000036">«Do you think that was a very nice thing to say?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000037">«I wasn’t trying to be nice.» Then after a pause:</span> 
    <span id="f000038">«When do you want to go?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000039">Bernice drew in her breath sharply.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000040">«Oh!» It was a little half-cry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">Marjorie looked up in surprise.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000042">«Didn’t you say you were going?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">but—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000045">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">you were only bluffing!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000047">They stared at each other across the breakfast-table for a moment.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">Misty waves were passing before Bernice’s eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">while Marjorie’s face wore that rather hard expression that she used when slightly intoxicated undergraduate’s were making love to her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000050">«So you were bluffing,» she repeated as if it were what she might have expected.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000051">Bernice admitted it by bursting into tears.</span> 
    <span id="f000052">Marjorie’s eyes showed boredom.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">«You’re my cousin,» sobbed Bernice.</span> 
    <span id="f000054">«I’m v-v-visiting you.</span> 
    <span id="f000055">I was to stay a month,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">and if I go home my mother will know and she’ll wah-wonder—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">Marjorie waited until the shower of broken words collapsed into little sniffles.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000058">«I’ll give you my month’s allowance,» she said coldly,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">«and you can spend this last week anywhere you want.</span> 
    <span id="f000060">There’s a very nice hotel—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000061">Bernice’s sobs rose to a flute note,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">and rising of a sudden she fled from the room.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000063">An hour later,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">while Marjorie was in the library absorbed in composing one of those non-committal marvelously elusive letters that only a young girl can write,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">Bernice reappeared,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">very red-eyed,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">and consciously calm.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">She cast no glance at Marjorie but took a book at random from the shelf and sat down as if to read.</span> 
    <span id="f000069">Marjorie seemed absorbed in her letter and continued writing.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">When the clock showed noon Bernice closed her book with a snap.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000071">«I suppose I’d better get my railroad ticket.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000072">This was not the beginning of the speech she had rehearsed up-stairs,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">but as Marjorie was not getting her cues –</span> 
    <span id="f000074">wasn’t urging her to be reasonable;</span> 
    <span id="f000075">it’s an a mistake –</span> 
    <span id="f000076">it was the best opening she could muster.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000077">«Just wait till I finish this letter,» said Marjorie without looking round.</span> 
    <span id="f000078">«I want to get it off in the next mail.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000079">After another minute,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">during which her pen scratched busily,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">she turned round and relaxed with an air of «at your service.» Again Bernice had to speak.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000082">«Do you want me to go home?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000083">«Well,» said Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">considering,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">«I suppose if you’re not having a good time you’d better go.</span> 
    <span id="f000086">No use being miserable.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000087">«Don’t you think common kindness—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">please don’t quote ’Little Women’!» cried Marjorie impatiently.</span> 
    <span id="f000090">«That’s out of style.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000091">«You think so?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000092">«Heavens,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">yes!</span> 
    <span id="f000094">What modern girl could live like those inane females?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000095">«They were the models for our mothers.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000096">Marjorie laughed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">they were –</span> 
    <span id="f000099">not!</span> 
    <span id="f000100">Besides,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">our mothers were all very well in their way,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">but they know very little about their daughters’ problems.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000103">Bernice drew herself up.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000104">«Please don’t talk about my mother.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000105">Marjorie laughed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000106">«I don’t think I mentioned her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000107">Bernice felt that she was being led away from her subject.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000108">«Do you think you’ve treated me very well?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000109">«I’ve done my best.</span> 
    <span id="f000110">You’re rather hard material to work with.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000111">The lids of Bernice’s eyes reddened.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000112">«I think you’re hard and selfish,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and you haven’t a feminine quality in you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000114">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">my Lord!» cried Marjorie in desperation «You little nut!</span> 
    <span id="f000116">Girls like you are responsible for all the tiresome colorless marriages;</span> 
    <span id="f000117">all those ghastly inefficiencies that pass as feminine qualities.</span> 
    <span id="f000118">What a blow it must be when a man with imagination marries the beautiful bundle of clothes that he’s been building ideals round,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">and finds that she’s just a weak,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">whining,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">cowardly mass of affectations!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000122">Bernice’s mouth had slipped half open.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">«The womanly woman!» continued Marjorie.</span> 
    <span id="f000124">«Her whole early life is occupied in whining criticisms of girls like me who really do have a good time.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000125">Bernice’s jaw descended farther as Marjorie’s voice rose.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000126">«There’s some excuse for an ugly girl whining.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">If I’d been irretrievably ugly I’d never have forgiven my parents for bringing me into the world.</span> 
    <span id="f000128">But you’re starting life without any handicap –</span> 
    <span id="f000129">» Marjorie’s little fist clinched,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">«If you expect me to weep with you you’ll be disappointed.</span> 
    <span id="f000131">Go or stay,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">just as you like.» And picking up her letters she left the room.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000133">Bernice claimed a headache and failed to appear at luncheon.</span> 
    <span id="f000134">They had a matinée date for the afternoon,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">but the headache persisting,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">Marjorie made explanation to a not very downcast boy.</span> 
    <span id="f000137">But when she returned late in the afternoon she found Bernice with a strangely set face waiting for her in her bedroom.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000138">«I’ve decided,» began Bernice without preliminaries,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">«that maybe you’re right about things –</span> 
    <span id="f000140">possibly not.</span> 
    <span id="f000141">But if you’ll tell me why your friends aren’t –</span> 
    <span id="f000142">aren’t interested in me I’ll see if I can do what you want me to.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000143">Marjorie was at the mirror shaking down her hair.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000144">«Do you mean it?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000145">«Yes.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000146">«Without reservations?</span> 
    <span id="f000147">Will you do exactly what I say?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000148">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">I—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000150">«Well nothing!</span> 
    <span id="f000151">Will you do exactly as I say?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000152">«If they’re sensible things.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">«They’re not!</span> 
    <span id="f000154">You’re no case for sensible things.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000155">«Are you going to make –</span> 
    <span id="f000156">to recommend—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000157">"Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">everything.</span> 
    <span id="f000159">If I tell you to take boxing-lessons you’ll have to do it.</span> 
    <span id="f000160">Write home and tell your mother you’re going’ to stay another two weeks.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000161">«If you’ll tell me—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000162">«All right –</span> 
    <span id="f000163">I’ll just give you a few examples now.</span> 
    <span id="f000164">First you have no ease of manner.</span> 
    <span id="f000165">Why?</span> 
    <span id="f000166">Because you’re never sure about your personal appearance.</span> 
    <span id="f000167">When a girl feels that she’s perfectly groomed and dressed she can forget that part of her.</span> 
    <span id="f000168">That’s charm.</span> 
    <span id="f000169">The more parts of yourself you can afford to forget the more charm you have.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000170">«Don’t I look all right?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000171">«No;</span> 
    <span id="f000172">for instance you never take care of your eyebrows.</span> 
    <span id="f000173">They’re black and lustrous,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">but by leaving them straggly they’re a blemish.</span> 
    <span id="f000175">They’d be beautiful if you’d take care of them in one-tenth the time you take doing nothing.</span> 
    <span id="f000176">You’re going to brush them so that they’ll grow straight.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000177">Bernice raised the brows in question.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">«Do you mean to say that men notice eyebrows?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000179">«Yes –</span> 
    <span id="f000180">subconsciously.</span> 
    <span id="f000181">And when you go home you ought to have your teeth straightened a little.</span> 
    <span id="f000182">It’s almost imperceptible,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">still—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000184">«But I thought,» interrupted Bernice in bewilderment,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">«that you despised little dainty feminine things like that.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000186">«I hate dainty minds,» answered Marjorie.</span> 
    <span id="f000187">«But a girl has to be dainty in person.</span> 
    <span id="f000188">If she looks like a million dollars she can talk about Russia,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">ping-pong,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">or the League of Nations and get away with it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000191">«What else?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000192">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">I’m just beginning!</span> 
    <span id="f000194">There’s your dancing.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000195">«Don’t I dance all right?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000196">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">you don’t –</span> 
    <span id="f000198">you lean on a man;</span> 
    <span id="f000199">yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">you do –</span> 
    <span id="f000201">ever so slightly.</span> 
    <span id="f000202">I noticed it when we were dancing together yesterday.</span> 
    <span id="f000203">And you dance standing up straight instead of bending over a little.</span> 
    <span id="f000204">Probably some old lady on the side-line once told you that you looked so dignified that way.</span> 
    <span id="f000205">But except with a very small girl it’s much harder on the man,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">and he’s the one that counts.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000207">«Go on.» Bernice’s brain was reeling.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000208">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">you’ve got to learn to be nice to men who are sad birds.</span> 
    <span id="f000210">You look as if you’d been insulted whenever you’re thrown with any except the most popular boys.</span> 
    <span id="f000211">Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">I’m cut in on every few feet –</span> 
    <span id="f000214">and who does most of it?</span> 
    <span id="f000215">Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">those very sad birds.</span> 
    <span id="f000217">No girl can afford to neglect them.</span> 
    <span id="f000218">They’re the big part of any crowd.</span> 
    <span id="f000219">Young boys too shy to talk are the very best conversational practice.</span> 
    <span id="f000220">Clumsy boys are the best dancing practice.</span> 
    <span id="f000221">If you can follow them and yet look graceful you can follow a baby tank across a barb-wire sky-scraper.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000222">Bernice sighed profoundly,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">but Marjorie was not through.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000224">«If you go to a dance and really amuse,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">say,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">three sad birds that dance with you;</span> 
    <span id="f000227">if you talk so well to them that they forget they’re stuck with you,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">you’ve done something.</span> 
    <span id="f000229">They’ll come back next time,</span> 
    <span id="f000230">and gradually so many sad birds will dance with you that the attractive boys will see there’s no danger of being stuck –</span> 
    <span id="f000231">then they’ll dance with you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000232">«Yes,» agreed Bernice faintly.</span> 
    <span id="f000233">«I think I begin to see.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000234">«And finally,» concluded Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">«poise and charm will just come.</span> 
    <span id="f000236">You’ll wake up some morning knowing you’ve attained it and men will know it too.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000237">Bernice rose.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000238">«It’s been awfully kind of you –</span> 
    <span id="f000239">but nobody’s ever talked to me like this before,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">and I feel sort of startled.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000241">Marjorie made no answer but gazed pensively at her own image in the mirror.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000242">«You’re a peach to help me,» continued Bernice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000243">Still Marjorie did not answer,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">and Bernice thought she had seemed too grateful.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000245">«I know you don’t like sentiment,» she said timidly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000246">Marjorie turned to her quickly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000247">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">I wasn’t thinking about that.</span> 
    <span id="f000249">I was considering whether we hadn’t better bob your hair.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000250">Bernice collapsed backward upon the bed.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>