<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter IV</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">On the following Wednesday evening there was a dinner-dance at the country club.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">When the guests strolled in Bernice found her place-card with a slight feeling of irritation.</span> 
    <span id="f000004">Though at her right sat G.&#160;Reece Stoddard,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">a most desirable and distinguished young bachelor,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">the all-important left held only Charley Paulson.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">Charley lacked height,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">beauty,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and social shrewdness,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and in her new enlightenment Bernice decided that his only qualification to be her partner was that he had never been stuck with her.</span> 
    <span id="f000011">But this feeling of irritation left with the last of the soup-plates,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and Marjorie’s specific instruction came to her.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">Swallowing her pride she turned to Charley Paulson and plunged.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000014">«Do you think I ought to bob my hair,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">Mr.&#160;Charley Paulson?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">Charley looked up in surprise.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000017">«Why?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000018">«Because I’m considering it.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">It’s such a sure and easy way of attracting attention.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000020">Charley smiled pleasantly.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">He could not know this had been rehearsed.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">He replied that he didn’t know much about bobbed hair.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">But Bernice was there to tell him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">«I want to be a society vampire,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">you see,» she announced coolly,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">and went on to inform him that bobbed hair was the necessary prelude.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">She added that she wanted to ask his advice,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">because she had heard he was so critical about girls.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000029">Charley,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">who knew as much about the psychology of women as he did of the mental states of Buddhist contemplatives,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">felt vaguely flattered.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">«So I’ve decided,» she continued,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">her voice rising slightly,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">«that early next week I’m going down to the Sevier Hotel barber-shop,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">sit in the first chair,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">and get my hair bobbed.» She faltered noticing that the people near her had paused in their conversation and were listening;</span> 
    <span id="f000037">but after a confused second Marjorie’s coaching told,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">and she finished her paragraph to the vicinity at large.</span> 
    <span id="f000039">«Of course I’m charging admission,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">but if you’ll all come down and encourage me I’ll issue passes for the inside seats.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">There was a ripple of appreciative laughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and under cover of it G.&#160;Reece Stoddard leaned over quickly and said close to her ear:</span> 
    <span id="f000043">«I’ll take a box right now.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">She met his eyes and smiled as if he had said something surprisingly brilliant.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000045">«Do you believe in bobbed hair?» asked G.&#160;Reece in the same undertone.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000046">«I think it’s unmoral,» affirmed Bernice gravely.</span> 
    <span id="f000047">«But,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">of course,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">you’ve either got to amuse people or feed ’em or shock ’em.» Marjorie had culled this from Oscar Wilde.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">It was greeted with a ripple of laughter from the men and a series of quick,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">intent looks from the girls.</span> 
    <span id="f000052">And then as though she had said nothing of wit or moment Bernice turned again to Charley and spoke confidentially in his ear.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">«I want to ask you your opinion of several people.</span> 
    <span id="f000054">I imagine you’re a wonderful judge of character.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000055">Charley thrilled faintly –</span> 
    <span id="f000056">paid her a subtle compliment by overturning her water.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">Two hours later,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">while Warren McIntyre was standing passively in the stag line abstractedly watching the dancers and wondering whither and with whom Marjorie had disappeared,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">an unrelated perception began to creep slowly upon him –</span> 
    <span id="f000060">a perception that Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">cousin to Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">had been cut in on several times in the past five minutes.</span> 
    <span id="f000063">He closed his eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">opened them and looked again.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">Several minutes back she had been dancing with a visiting boy,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">a matter easily accounted for;</span> 
    <span id="f000067">a visiting boy would know no better.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">But now she was dancing with some one else,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">and there was Charley Paulson headed for her with enthusiastic determination in his eye.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">Funny –</span> 
    <span id="f000071">Charley seldom danced with more than three girls an evening.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000072">Warren was distinctly surprised when –</span> 
    <span id="f000073">the exchange having been effected –</span> 
    <span id="f000074">the man relieved proved to be none ether than G.&#160;Reece Stoddard himself.</span> 
    <span id="f000075">And G.&#160;Reece seemed not at all jubilant at being relieved.</span> 
    <span id="f000076">Next time Bernice danced near,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">Warren regarded her intently.</span> 
    <span id="f000078">Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">she was pretty,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">distinctly pretty;</span> 
    <span id="f000081">and to-night her face seemed really vivacious.</span> 
    <span id="f000082">She had that look that no woman,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">however histrionically proficient,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">can successfully counterfeit –</span> 
    <span id="f000085">she looked as if she were having a good time.</span> 
    <span id="f000086">He liked the way she had her hair arranged,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">wondered if it was brilliantine that made it glisten so.</span> 
    <span id="f000088">And that dress was becoming –</span> 
    <span id="f000089">a dark red that set off her shadowy eyes and high coloring.</span> 
    <span id="f000090">He remembered that he had thought her pretty when she first came to town,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">before he had realized that she was dull.</span> 
    <span id="f000092">Too bad she was dull –</span> 
    <span id="f000093">dull girls unbearable –</span> 
    <span id="f000094">certainly pretty though.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000095">His thoughts zigzagged back to Marjorie.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">This disappearance would be like other disappearances.</span> 
    <span id="f000097">When she reappeared he would demand where she had been –</span> 
    <span id="f000098">would be told emphatically that it was none of his business.</span> 
    <span id="f000099">What a pity she was so sure of him!</span> 
    <span id="f000100">She basked in the knowledge that no other girl in town interested him;</span> 
    <span id="f000101">she defied him to fall in love with Genevieve or Roberta.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">Warren sighed.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">The way to Marjorie’s affections was a labyrinth indeed.</span> 
    <span id="f000104">He looked up.</span> 
    <span id="f000105">Bernice was again dancing with the visiting boy.</span> 
    <span id="f000106">Half unconsciously he took a step out from the stag line in her direction,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">and hesitated.</span> 
    <span id="f000108">Then he said to himself that it was charity.</span> 
    <span id="f000109">He walked toward her –</span> 
    <span id="f000110">collided suddenly with G.&#160;Reece Stoddard.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000111">«Pardon me,» said Warren.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000112">But G.&#160;Reece had not stopped to apologize.</span> 
    <span id="f000113">He had again cut in on Bernice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000114">That night at one o’clock Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">with one hand on the electric-light switch in the hall,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">turned to take a last look at Bernice’s sparkling eyes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000117">«So it worked?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000118">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">yes!» cried Bernice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">«I saw you were having a gay time.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000122">«I did!</span> 
    <span id="f000123">The only trouble was that about midnight I ran short of talk.</span> 
    <span id="f000124">I had to repeat myself –</span> 
    <span id="f000125">with different men of course.</span> 
    <span id="f000126">I hope they won’t compare notes.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000127">«Men don’t,» said Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">yawning,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">«and it wouldn’t matter if they did –</span> 
    <span id="f000130">they’d think you were even trickier.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000131">She snapped out the light,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">and as they started up the stairs Bernice grasped the banister thankfully.</span> 
    <span id="f000133">For the first time in her life she had been danced tired.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000134">«You see,» said Marjorie it the top of the stairs,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">«one man sees another man cut in and he thinks there must be something there.</span> 
    <span id="f000136">Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">we’ll fix up some new stuff to-morrow.</span> 
    <span id="f000138">Good night.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">«Good night.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000140">As Bernice took down her hair she passed the evening before her in review.</span> 
    <span id="f000141">She had followed instructions exactly.</span> 
    <span id="f000142">Even when Charley Paulson cut in for the eighth time she had simulated delight and had apparently been both interested and flattered.</span> 
    <span id="f000143">She had not talked about the weather or Eau Claire or automobiles or her school,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">but had confined her conversation to me,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">you,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">and us.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000147">But a few minutes before she fell asleep a rebellious thought was churning drowsily in her brain –</span> 
    <span id="f000148">after all,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">it was she who had done it.</span> 
    <span id="f000150">Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">to be sure,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">had given her her conversation,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">but then Marjorie got much of her conversation out of things she read.</span> 
    <span id="f000154">Bernice had bought the red dress,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">though she had never valued it highly before Marjorie dug it out of her trunk –</span> 
    <span id="f000156">and her own voice had said the words,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">her own lips had smiled,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">her own feet had danced.</span> 
    <span id="f000159">Marjorie nice girl –</span> 
    <span id="f000160">vain,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">though –</span> 
    <span id="f000162">nice evening –</span> 
    <span id="f000163">nice boys –</span> 
    <span id="f000164">like Warren –</span> 
    <span id="f000165">Warren –</span> 
    <span id="f000166">Warren –</span> 
    <span id="f000167">what’s his name –</span> 
    <span id="f000168">Warren—</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000169">She fell asleep.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>