<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter V</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">To Bernice the next week was a revelation.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">With the feeling that people really enjoyed looking at her and listening to her came the foundation of self-confidence.</span> 
    <span id="f000004">Of course there were numerous mistakes at first.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">She did not know,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">for instance,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">that Draycott Deyo was studying for the ministry;</span> 
    <span id="f000008">she was unaware that he had cut in on her because he thought she was a quiet,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">reserved girl.</span> 
    <span id="f000010">Had she known these things she would not have treated him to the line which began «Hello,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">Shell Shock!» and continued with the bathtub story –</span> 
    <span id="f000012">«It takes a frightful lot of energy to fix my hair in the summer –</span> 
    <span id="f000013">there’s so much of it –</span> 
    <span id="f000014">so I always fix it first and powder my face and put on my hat;</span> 
    <span id="f000015">then I get into the bathtub,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">and dress afterward.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Don’t you think that’s the best plan?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000018">Though Draycott Deyo was in the throes of difficulties concerning baptism by immersion and might possibly have seen a connection,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">it must be admitted that he did not.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">He considered feminine bathing an immoral subject,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">and gave her some of his ideas on the depravity of modern society.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000022">But to offset that unfortunate occurrence Bernice had several signal successes to her credit.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">Little Otis Ormonde pleaded off from a trip East and elected instead to follow her with a puppylike devotion,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">to the amusement of his crowd and to the irritation of G.&#160;Reece Stoddard,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">several of whose afternoon calls Otis completely ruined by the disgusting tenderness of the glances he bent on Bernice.</span> 
    <span id="f000026">He even told her the story of the two-by-four and the dressing-room to show her how frightfully mistaken he and every one else had been in their first judgment of her.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">Bernice laughed off that incident with a slight sinking sensation.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000028">Of all Bernice’s conversation perhaps the best known and most universally approved was the line about the bobbing of her hair.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000029">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">when you goin’ to get the hair bobbed?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">«Day after to-morrow maybe,» she would reply,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">laughing.</span> 
    <span id="f000034">«Will you come and see me?</span> 
    <span id="f000035">Because I’m counting on you,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">you know.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000037">«Will we?</span> 
    <span id="f000038">You know!</span> 
    <span id="f000039">But you better hurry up.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000040">Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">whose tonsorial intentions were strictly dishonorable,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">would laugh again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">«Pretty soon now.</span> 
    <span id="f000044">You’d be surprised.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000045">But perhaps the most significant symbol of her success was the gray car of the hypercritical Warren McIntyre,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">parked daily in front of the Harvey house.</span> 
    <span id="f000047">At first the parlor-maid was distinctly startled when he asked for Bernice instead of Marjorie;</span> 
    <span id="f000048">after a week of it she told the cook that Miss Bernice had gotta holda Miss Marjorie’s best fella.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">And Miss Bernice had.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">Perhaps it began with Warren’s desire to rouse jealousy in Marjorie;</span> 
    <span id="f000051">perhaps it was the familiar though unrecognized strain of Marjorie in Bernice’s conversation;</span> 
    <span id="f000052">perhaps it was both of these and something of sincere attraction besides.</span> 
    <span id="f000053">But somehow the collective mind of the younger set knew within a week that Marjorie’s most reliable beau had made an amazing face-about and was giving an indisputable rush to Marjorie’s guest.</span> 
    <span id="f000054">The question of the moment was how Marjorie would take it.</span> 
    <span id="f000055">Warren called Bernice on the ’phone twice a day,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">sent her notes,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">and they were frequently seen together in his roadster,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">obviously engrossed in one of those tense,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">significant conversations as to whether or not he was sincere.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000060">Marjorie on being twitted only laughed.</span> 
    <span id="f000061">She said she was mighty glad that Warren had at last found some one who appreciated him.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">So the younger set laughed,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">too,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">and guessed that Marjorie didn’t care and let it go at that.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000065">One afternoon when there were only three days left of her visit Bernice was waiting in the hall for Warren,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">with whom she was going to a bridge party.</span> 
    <span id="f000067">She was in rather a blissful mood,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and when Marjorie –</span> 
    <span id="f000069">also bound for the party –</span> 
    <span id="f000070">appeared beside her and began casually to adjust her hat in the mirror,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">Bernice was utterly unprepared for anything in the nature of a clash.</span> 
    <span id="f000072">Marjorie did her work very coldly and succinctly in three sentences.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000073">«You may as well get Warren out of your head,» she said coldly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000074">«What?» Bernice was utterly astounded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000075">«You may as well stop making a fool of yourself over Warren McIntyre.</span> 
    <span id="f000076">He doesn’t care a snap of his fingers about you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000077">For a tense moment they regarded each other –</span> 
    <span id="f000078">Marjorie scornful,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">aloof;</span> 
    <span id="f000080">Bernice astounded,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">half-angry,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">half-afraid.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">Then two cars drove up in front of the house and there was a riotous honking.</span> 
    <span id="f000084">Both of them gasped faintly,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">turned,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and side by side hurried out.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000087">All through the bridge party Bernice strove in vain to master a rising uneasiness.</span> 
    <span id="f000088">She had offended Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">the sphinx of sphinxes.</span> 
    <span id="f000090">With the most wholesome and innocent intentions in the world she had stolen Marjorie’s property.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">She felt suddenly and horribly guilty.</span> 
    <span id="f000092">After the bridge game,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">when they sat in an informal circle and the conversation became general,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">the storm gradually broke.</span> 
    <span id="f000095">Little Otis Ormonde inadvertently precipitated it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000096">«When you going back to kindergarten,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">Otis?» some one had asked.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000098">«Me?</span> 
    <span id="f000099">Day Bernice gets her hair bobbed.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000100">«Then your education’s over,» said Marjorie quickly.</span> 
    <span id="f000101">«That’s only a bluff of hers.</span> 
    <span id="f000102">I should think you’d have realized.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000103">«That a fact?» demanded Otis,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">giving Bernice a reproachful glance.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000105">Bernice’s ears burned as she tried to think up an effectual come-back.</span> 
    <span id="f000106">In the face of this direct attack her imagination was paralyzed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000107">«There’s a lot of bluffs in the world,» continued Marjorie quite pleasantly.</span> 
    <span id="f000108">«I should think you’d be young enough to know that,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">Otis.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000110">«Well,» said Otis,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">«maybe so.</span> 
    <span id="f000112">But gee!</span> 
    <span id="f000113">With a line like Bernice’s—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000114">«Really?» yawned Marjorie.</span> 
    <span id="f000115">«What’s her latest bon mot?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000116">No one seemed to know.</span> 
    <span id="f000117">In fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">having trifled with her muse’s beau,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">had said nothing memorable of late.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">«Was that really all a line?» asked Roberta curiously.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000122">Bernice hesitated.</span> 
    <span id="f000123">She felt that wit in some form was demanded of her,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">but under her cousin’s suddenly frigid eyes she was completely incapacitated.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000125">«I don’t know,» she stalled.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000126">«Splush!» said Marjorie.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">«Admit it!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000128">Bernice saw that Warren’s eyes had left a ukulele he had been tinkering with and were fixed on her questioningly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000129">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">I don’t know!» she repeated steadily.</span> 
    <span id="f000131">Her cheeks were glowing.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000132">«Splush!» remarked Marjorie again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000133">«Come through,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">Bernice,» urged Otis.</span> 
    <span id="f000135">«Tell her where to get off.» Bernice looked round again –</span> 
    <span id="f000136">she seemed unable to get away from Warren’s eyes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000137">«I like bobbed hair,» she said hurriedly,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">as if he had asked her a question,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">«and I intend to bob mine.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000140">«When?» demanded Marjorie.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000141">«Any time.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000142">«No time like the present,» suggested Roberta.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000143">Otis jumped to his feet.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000144">«Good stuff!» he cried.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">«We’ll have a summer bobbing party.</span> 
    <span id="f000146">Sevier Hotel barber-shop,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">I think you said.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000148">In an instant all were on their feet.</span> 
    <span id="f000149">Bernice’s heart throbbed violently.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000150">«What?» she gasped.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000151">Out of the group came Marjorie’s voice,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">very clear and contemptuous.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">«Don’t worry –</span> 
    <span id="f000154">she’ll back out!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000155">«Come on,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">Bernice!» cried Otis,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">starting toward the door.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000158">Four eyes –</span> 
    <span id="f000159">Warren’s and Marjorie’s –</span> 
    <span id="f000160">stared at her,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">challenged her,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">defied her.</span> 
    <span id="f000163">For another second she wavered wildly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000164">«All right,» she said swiftly «I don’t care if I do.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000165">An eternity of minutes later,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">riding down-town through the late afternoon beside Warren,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">the others following in Roberta’s car close behind,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">Bernice had all the sensations of Marie Antoinette bound for the guillotine in a tumbrel.</span> 
    <span id="f000169">Vaguely she wondered why she did not cry out that it was all a mistake.</span> 
    <span id="f000170">It was all she could do to keep from clutching her hair with both bands to protect it from the suddenly hostile world.</span> 
    <span id="f000171">Yet she did neither.</span> 
    <span id="f000172">Even the thought of her mother was no deterrent now.</span> 
    <span id="f000173">This was the test supreme of her sportsmanship;</span> 
    <span id="f000174">her right to walk unchallenged in the starry heaven of popular girls.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000175">Warren was moodily silent,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">and when they came to the hotel he drew up at the curb and nodded to Bernice to precede him out.</span> 
    <span id="f000177">Roberta’s car emptied a laughing crowd into the shop,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">which presented two bold plate-glass windows to the street.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000179">Bernice stood on the curb and looked at the sign,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">Sevier Barber-Shop.</span> 
    <span id="f000181">It was a guillotine indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">and the hangman was the first barber,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">attired in a white coat and smoking a cigarette,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">leaned nonchalantly against the first chair.</span> 
    <span id="f000186">He must have heard of her;</span> 
    <span id="f000187">he must have been waiting all week,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">smoking eternal cigarettes beside that portentous,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">too-often-mentioned first chair.</span> 
    <span id="f000190">Would they blind-fold her?</span> 
    <span id="f000191">No,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">but they would tie a white cloth round her neck lest any of her blood –</span> 
    <span id="f000193">nonsense –</span> 
    <span id="f000194">hair –</span> 
    <span id="f000195">should get on her clothes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000196">«All right,</span> 
    <span id="f000197">Bernice,» said Warren quickly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000198">With her chin in the air she crossed the sidewalk,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">pushed open the swinging screen-door,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">and giving not a glance to the uproarious,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">riotous row that occupied the waiting bench,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">went up to the fat barber.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000203">«I want you to bob my hair.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000204">The first barber’s mouth slid somewhat open.</span> 
    <span id="f000205">His cigarette dropped to the floor.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000206">«Huh?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000207">«My hair –</span> 
    <span id="f000208">bob it!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000209">Refusing further preliminaries,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">Bernice took her seat on high.</span> 
    <span id="f000211">A man in the chair next to her turned on his side and gave her a glance,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">half lather,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">half amazement.</span> 
    <span id="f000214">One barber started and spoiled little Willy Schuneman’s monthly haircut.</span> 
    <span id="f000215">Mr.&#160;O’Reilly in the last chair grunted and swore musically in ancient Gaelic as a razor bit into his cheek.</span> 
    <span id="f000216">Two bootblacks became wide-eyed and rushed for her feet.</span> 
    <span id="f000217">No,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">Bernice didn’t care for a shine.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000219">Outside a passer-by stopped and stared;</span> 
    <span id="f000220">a couple joined him;</span> 
    <span id="f000221">half a dozen small boys’ nose sprang into life,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">flattened against the glass;</span> 
    <span id="f000223">and snatches of conversation borne on the summer breeze drifted in through the screen-door.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000224">«Lookada long hair on a kid!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000225">«Where’d yuh get ’at stuff?</span> 
    <span id="f000226">’At’s a bearded lady he just finished shavin’.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000227">But Bernice saw nothing,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">heard nothing.</span> 
    <span id="f000229">Her only living sense told her that this man in the white coat had removed one tortoise-shell comb and then another;</span> 
    <span id="f000230">that his fingers were fumbling clumsily with unfamiliar hairpins;</span> 
    <span id="f000231">that this hair,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">this wonderful hair of hers,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">was going –</span> 
    <span id="f000234">she would never again feel its long voluptuous pull as it hung in a dark-brown glory down her back.</span> 
    <span id="f000235">For a second she was near breaking down,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">and then the picture before her swam mechanically into her vision –</span> 
    <span id="f000237">Marjorie’s mouth curling in a faint ironic smile as if to say:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000238">«Give up and get down!</span> 
    <span id="f000239">You tried to buck me and I called your bluff.</span> 
    <span id="f000240">You see you haven’t got a prayer.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000241">And some last energy rose up in Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000242">for she clinched her hands under the white cloth,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">and there was a curious narrowing of her eyes that Marjorie remarked on to some one long afterward.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000244">Twenty minutes later the barber swung her round to face the mirror,</span> 
    <span id="f000245">and she flinched at the full extent of the damage that had been wrought.</span> 
    <span id="f000246">Her hair was not curls and now it lay in lank lifeless blocks on both sides of her suddenly pale face.</span> 
    <span id="f000247">It was ugly as sin –</span> 
    <span id="f000248">she had known it would be ugly as sin.</span> 
    <span id="f000249">Her face’s chief charm had been a Madonna-like simplicity.</span> 
    <span id="f000250">Now that was gone and she was –</span> 
    <span id="f000251">well frightfully mediocre –</span> 
    <span id="f000252">not stagy;</span> 
    <span id="f000253">only ridiculous,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">like a Greenwich Villager who had left her spectacles at home.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000255">As she climbed down from the chair she tried to smile –</span> 
    <span id="f000256">failed miserably.</span> 
    <span id="f000257">She saw two of the girls exchange glances;</span> 
    <span id="f000258">noticed Marjorie’s mouth curved in attenuated mockery –</span> 
    <span id="f000259">and that Warren’s eyes were suddenly very cold.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000260">«You see,» –</span> 
    <span id="f000261">her words fell into an awkward pause –</span> 
    <span id="f000262">«I’ve done it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000263">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">you’ve –</span> 
    <span id="f000265">done it,» admitted Warren.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000266">«Do you like it?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000267">There was a half-hearted «Sure» from two or three voices,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">another awkward pause,</span> 
    <span id="f000269">and then Marjorie turned swiftly and with serpentlike intensity to Warren.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000270">«Would you mind running me down to the cleaners?» she asked.</span> 
    <span id="f000271">«I’ve simply got to get a dress there before supper.</span> 
    <span id="f000272">Roberta’s driving right home and she can take the others.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000273">Warren stared abstractedly at some infinite speck out the window.</span> 
    <span id="f000274">Then for an instant his eyes rested coldly on Bernice before they turned to Marjorie.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000275">«Be glad to,» he said slowly.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>