<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter VI</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Bernice did not fully realize the outrageous trap that had been set for her until she met her aunt’s amazed glance just before dinner.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000003">«Why Bernice!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000004">«I’ve bobbed it,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">Aunt Josephine.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000006">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">child!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000008">«Do you like it?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000009">«Why Bernice!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">«I suppose I’ve shocked you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000011">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">but what’ll Mrs.&#160;Deyo think tomorrow night?</span> 
    <span id="f000013">Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">you should have waited until after the Deyo’s dance –</span> 
    <span id="f000015">you should have waited if you wanted to do that.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">«It was sudden,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Aunt Josephine.</span> 
    <span id="f000018">Anyway,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">why does it matter to Mrs.&#160;Deyo particularly?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000020">«Why child,» cried Mrs.&#160;Harvey,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">«in her paper on ’The Foibles of the Younger Generation’ that she read at the last meeting of the Thursday Club she devoted fifteen minutes to bobbed hair.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">It’s her pet abomination.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">And the dance is for you and Marjorie!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">«I’m sorry.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000025">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">Bernice,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">what’ll your mother say?</span> 
    <span id="f000028">She’ll think I let you do it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000029">«I’m sorry.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">Dinner was an agony.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">She had made a hasty attempt with a curling-iron,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">and burned her finger and much hair.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">She could see that her aunt was both worried and grieved,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">and her uncle kept saying,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">I’ll be darned!» over and over in a hurt and faintly hostile torte.</span> 
    <span id="f000037">And Marjorie sat very quietly,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">intrenched behind a faint smile,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">a faintly mocking smile.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000040">Somehow she got through the evening.</span> 
    <span id="f000041">Three boy’s called;</span> 
    <span id="f000042">Marjorie disappeared with one of them,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">and Bernice made a listless unsuccessful attempt to entertain the two others –</span> 
    <span id="f000044">sighed thankfully as she climbed the stairs to her room at half past ten.</span> 
    <span id="f000045">What a day!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000046">When she had undressed for the night the door opened and Marjorie came in.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000047">«Bernice,» she said «I’m awfully sorry about the Deyo dance.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">I’ll give you my word of honor I’d forgotten all about it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">«’Sall right,» said Bernice shortly.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">Standing before the mirror she passed her comb slowly through her short hair.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000051">«I’ll take you down-town to-morrow,» continued Marjorie,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">«and the hairdresser’ll fix it so you’ll look slick.</span> 
    <span id="f000053">I didn’t imagine you’d go through with it.</span> 
    <span id="f000054">I’m really mighty sorry.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000055">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">’sall right!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">«Still it’s your last night,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">so I suppose it won’t matter much.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">Then Bernice winced as Marjorie tossed her own hair over her shoulders and began to twist it slowly into two long blond braids until in her cream-colored negligée she looked like a delicate painting of some Saxon princess.</span> 
    <span id="f000060">Fascinated,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">Bernice watched the braids grow.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">Heavy and luxurious they were moving under the supple fingers like restive snakes –</span> 
    <span id="f000063">and to Bernice remained this relic and the curling-iron and a to-morrow full of eyes.</span> 
    <span id="f000064">She could see G.&#160;Reece Stoddard,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">who liked her,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">assuming his Harvard manner and telling his dinner partner that Bernice shouldn’t have been allowed to go to the movies so much;</span> 
    <span id="f000067">she could see Draycott Deyo exchanging glances with his mother and then being conscientiously charitable to her.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">But then perhaps by to-morrow Mrs.&#160;Deyo would have heard the news;</span> 
    <span id="f000069">would send round an icy little note requesting that she fail to appear –</span> 
    <span id="f000070">and behind her back they would all laugh and know that Marjorie had made a fool of her;</span> 
    <span id="f000071">that her chance at beauty had been sacrificed to the jealous whim of a selfish girl.</span> 
    <span id="f000072">She sat down suddenly before the mirror,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">biting the inside of her cheek.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000074">«I like it,» she said with an effort.</span> 
    <span id="f000075">«I think it’ll be becoming.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000076">Marjorie smiled.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000077">«It looks all right.</span> 
    <span id="f000078">For heaven’s sake,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">don’t let it worry you!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000080">«I won’t.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000081">«Good night Bernice.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000082">But as the door closed something snapped within Bernice.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">She sprang dynamically to her feet,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">clinching her hands,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">then swiftly and noiseless crossed over to her bed and from underneath it dragged out her suitcase.</span> 
    <span id="f000086">Into it she tossed toilet articles and a change of clothing,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">Then she turned to her trunk and quickly dumped in two drawerfulls of lingerie and stammer dresses.</span> 
    <span id="f000088">She moved quietly,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">but deadly efficiency,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and in three-quarters of an hour her trunk was locked and strapped and she was fully dressed in a becoming new travelling suit that Marjorie had helped her pick out.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000091">Sitting down at her desk she wrote a short note to Mrs.&#160;Harvey,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">in which she briefly outlined her reasons for going.</span> 
    <span id="f000093">She sealed it,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">addressed it,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">and laid it on her pillow.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">She glanced at her watch.</span> 
    <span id="f000097">The train left at one,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">and she knew that if she walked down to the Marborough Hotel two blocks away she could easily get a taxicab.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000099">Suddenly she drew in her breath sharply and an expression flashed into her eyes that a practiced character reader might have connected vaguely with the set look she had worn in the barber’s chair –</span> 
    <span id="f000100">somehow a development of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000101">It was quite a new look for Bernice –</span> 
    <span id="f000102">and it carried consequences.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000103">She went stealthily to the bureau,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">picked up an article that lay there,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">and turning out all the lights stood quietly until her eyes became accustomed to the darkness.</span> 
    <span id="f000106">Softly she pushed open the door to Marjorie’s room.</span> 
    <span id="f000107">She heard the quiet,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">even breathing of an untroubled conscience asleep.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000109">She was by the bedside now,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">very deliberate and calm.</span> 
    <span id="f000111">She acted swiftly.</span> 
    <span id="f000112">Bending over she found one of the braids of Marjorie’s hair,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">followed it up with her hand to the point nearest the head,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">and then holding it a little slack so that the sleeper would feel no pull,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">she reached down with the shears and severed it.</span> 
    <span id="f000116">With the pigtail in her hand she held her breath.</span> 
    <span id="f000117">Marjorie had muttered something in her sleep.</span> 
    <span id="f000118">Bernice deftly amputated the other braid,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">paused for an instant,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">and then flitted swiftly and silently back to her own room.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">Down-stairs she opened the big front door,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">closed it carefully behind her,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">and feeling oddly happy and exuberant stepped off the porch into the moonlight,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">swinging her heavy grip like a shopping-bag.</span> 
    <span id="f000125">After a minute’s brisk walk she discovered that her left hand still held the two blond braids.</span> 
    <span id="f000126">She laughed unexpectedly –</span> 
    <span id="f000127">had to shut her mouth hard to keep from emitting an absolute peal.</span> 
    <span id="f000128">She was passing Warren’s house now,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">and on the impulse she set down her baggage,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">and swinging the braids like piece of rope flung them at the wooden porch,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">where they landed with a slight thud.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">She laughed again,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">no longer restraining herself.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000134">«Huh,» she giggled wildly.</span> 
    <span id="f000135">«Scalp the selfish thing!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000136">Then picking up her staircase she set off at a half-run down the moonlit street.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>