<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Loves of Alonzo Fitz Clarence and Rosannah Ethelton</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">It was well along in the forenoon of a bitter winter’s day.</span>
   <span id="f000003">The town of Eastport,</span>
   <span id="f000004">in the state of Maine,</span>
   <span id="f000005">lay buried under a deep snow that was newly fallen.</span>
   <span id="f000006">The customary bustle in the streets was wanting.</span>
   <span id="f000007">One could look long distances down them and see nothing but a dead-white emptiness,</span>
   <span id="f000008">with silence to match.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Of course I do not mean that you could see the silence – no,</span>
   <span id="f000010">you could only hear it.</span>
   <span id="f000011">The sidewalks were merely long,</span>
   <span id="f000012">deep ditches,</span>
   <span id="f000013">with steep snow walls on either side.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Here and there you might hear the faint,</span>
   <span id="f000015">far scrape of a wooden shovel,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and if you were quick enough you might catch a glimpse of a distant black figure stooping and disappearing in one of those ditches,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and reappearing the next moment with a motion which you would know meant the heaving out of a shovelful of snow.</span>
   <span id="f000018">But you needed to be quick,</span>
   <span id="f000019">for that black figure would not linger,</span>
   <span id="f000020">but would soon drop that shovel and scud for the house,</span>
   <span id="f000021">thrashing itself with its arms to warm them.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000023">it was too venomously cold for snow-shovelers or anybody else to stay out long.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">Presently the sky darkened;</span>
   <span id="f000025">then the wind rose and began to blow in fitful,</span>
   <span id="f000026">vigorous gusts,</span>
   <span id="f000027">which sent clouds of powdery snow aloft,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and straight ahead,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and everywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Under the impulse of one of these gusts,</span>
   <span id="f000031">great white drifts banked themselves like graves across the streets;</span>
   <span id="f000032">a moment later another gust shifted them around the other way,</span>
   <span id="f000033">driving a fine spray of snow from their sharp crests,</span>
   <span id="f000034">as the gale drives the spume flakes from wave-crests at sea;</span>
   <span id="f000035">a third gust swept that place as clean as your hand,</span>
   <span id="f000036">if it saw fit.</span>
   <span id="f000037">This was fooling,</span>
   <span id="f000038">this was play;</span>
   <span id="f000039">but each and all of the gusts dumped some snow into the sidewalk ditches,</span>
   <span id="f000040">for that was business.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">Alonzo Fitz Clarence was sitting in his snug and elegant little parlor,</span>
   <span id="f000042">in a lovely blue silk dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000043">with cuffs and facings of crimson satin,</span>
   <span id="f000044">elaborately quilted.</span>
   <span id="f000045">The remains of his breakfast were before him,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and the dainty and costly little table service added a harmonious charm to the grace,</span>
   <span id="f000047">beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and richness of the fixed appointments of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000049">A cheery fire was blazing on the hearth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">A furious gust of wind shook the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and a great wave of snow washed against them with a drenching sound,</span>
   <span id="f000052">so to speak.</span>
   <span id="f000053">The handsome young bachelor murmured:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“That means,</span>
   <span id="f000055">no going out to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000057">I am content.</span>
   <span id="f000058">But what to do for company?</span>
   <span id="f000059">Mother is well enough,</span>
   <span id="f000060">Aunt Susan is well enough;</span>
   <span id="f000061">but these,</span>
   <span id="f000062">like the poor,</span>
   <span id="f000063">I have with me always.</span>
   <span id="f000064">On so grim a day as this,</span>
   <span id="f000065">one needs a new interest,</span>
   <span id="f000066">a fresh element,</span>
   <span id="f000067">to whet the dull edge of captivity.</span>
   <span id="f000068">That was very neatly said,</span>
   <span id="f000069">but it doesn’t mean anything.</span>
   <span id="f000070">One doesn’t want the edge of captivity sharpened up,</span>
   <span id="f000071">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000072">but just the reverse.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">He glanced at his pretty French mantel-clock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“That clock’s wrong again.</span>
   <span id="f000075">That clock hardly ever knows what time it is;</span>
   <span id="f000076">and when it does know,</span>
   <span id="f000077">it lies about it – which amounts to the same thing.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Alfred!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">There was no answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“Alfred!…</span>
   <span id="f000081">Good servant,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but as uncertain as the clock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">Alonzo touched an electric bell button in the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000084">He waited a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000085">then touched it again;</span>
   <span id="f000086">waited a few moments more,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“Battery out of order,</span>
   <span id="f000089">no doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000090">But now that I have started,</span>
   <span id="f000091">I will find out what time it is.” He stepped to a speaking-tube in the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000092">blew its whistle,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and called,</span>
   <span id="f000094">“Mother!” and repeated it twice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000096">that’s no use.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Mother’s battery is out of order,</span>
   <span id="f000098">too.</span>
   <span id="f000099">Can’t raise anybody down-stairs – that is plain.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">He sat down at a rosewood desk,</span>
   <span id="f000101">leaned his chin on the left-hand edge of it and spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000102">as if to the floor:</span>
   <span id="f000103">“Aunt Susan!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">A low,</span>
   <span id="f000105">pleasant voice answered,</span>
   <span id="f000106">"Is that you,</span>
   <span id="f000107">Alonzo?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000109">I’m too lazy and comfortable to go downstairs;</span>
   <span id="f000110">I am in extremity,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and I can’t seem to scare up any help.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“Dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000113">what is the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“Matter enough,</span>
   <span id="f000115">I can tell you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000117">don’t keep me in suspense,</span>
   <span id="f000118">dear!</span>
   <span id="f000119">What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“I want to know what time it is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“You abominable boy,</span>
   <span id="f000122">what a turn you did give me!</span>
   <span id="f000123">Is that all?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“All – on my honor.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Calm yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000126">Tell me the time,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and receive my blessing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Just five minutes after nine.</span>
   <span id="f000129">No charge – keep your blessing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“Thanks.</span>
   <span id="f000131">It wouldn’t have impoverished me,</span>
   <span id="f000132">aunty,</span>
   <span id="f000133">nor so enriched you that you could live without other means.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">He got up,</span>
   <span id="f000135">murmuring,</span>
   <span id="f000136">“Just five minutes after nine,” and faced his clock.</span>
   <span id="f000137">“Ah,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000138">“you are doing better than usual.</span>
   <span id="f000139">You are only thirty-four minutes wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Let me see…</span>
   <span id="f000141">let me see…</span>
   <span id="f000142">.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Thirty-three and twenty-one are fifty-four;</span>
   <span id="f000144">four times fifty-four are two hundred and thirty-six.</span>
   <span id="f000145">One off,</span>
   <span id="f000146">leaves two hundred and thirty-five.</span>
   <span id="f000147">That’s right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">He turned the hands of his clock forward till they marked twenty-five minutes to one,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000150">“Now see if you can’t keep right for a while – else I’ll raffle you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">He sat down at the desk again,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000153">“Aunt Susan!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000155">dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“Had breakfast?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000158">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000159">an hour ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“Busy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“No – except sewing.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“Got any company?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000165">but I expect some at half past nine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“I wish I did.</span>
   <span id="f000167">I’m lonesome.</span>
   <span id="f000168">I want to talk to somebody.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000170">talk to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“But this is very private.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“Don’t be afraid – talk right along,</span>
   <span id="f000173">there’s nobody here but me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“I hardly know whether to venture or not,</span>
   <span id="f000175">but – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“But what?</span>
   <span id="f000177">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000178">don’t stop there!</span>
   <span id="f000179">You know you can trust me,</span>
   <span id="f000180">Alonzo – you know,</span>
   <span id="f000181">you can.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“I feel it,</span>
   <span id="f000183">aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000184">but this is very serious.</span>
   <span id="f000185">It affects me deeply – me,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and all the family – even the whole community.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000188">Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000189">tell me!</span>
   <span id="f000190">I will never breathe a word of it.</span>
   <span id="f000191">What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“Aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000193">if I might dare – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000195">please go on!</span>
   <span id="f000196">I love you,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and feel for you.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Tell me all.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Confide in me.</span>
   <span id="f000200">What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“The weather!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Plague take the weather!</span>
   <span id="f000203">I don’t see how you can have the heart to serve me so,</span>
   <span id="f000204">Lon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“There,</span>
   <span id="f000206">there,</span>
   <span id="f000207">aunty dear,</span>
   <span id="f000208">I’m sorry;</span>
   <span id="f000209">I am,</span>
   <span id="f000210">on my honor.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I won’t do it again.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Do you forgive me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000214">since you seem so sincere about it,</span>
   <span id="f000215">though I know I oughtn’t to.</span>
   <span id="f000216">You will fool me again as soon as I have forgotten this time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000218">I won’t,</span>
   <span id="f000219">honor bright.</span>
   <span id="f000220">But such weather,</span>
   <span id="f000221">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000222">such weather!</span>
   <span id="f000223">You’ve got to keep your spirits up artificially.</span>
   <span id="f000224">It is snowy,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and blowy,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and gusty,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and bitter cold!</span>
   <span id="f000228">How is the weather with you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“Warm and rainy and melancholy.</span>
   <span id="f000230">The mourners go about the streets with their umbrellas running streams from the end of every whalebone.</span>
   <span id="f000231">There’s an elevated double pavement of umbrellas,</span>
   <span id="f000232">stretching down the sides of the streets as far as I can see.</span>
   <span id="f000233">I’ve got a fire for cheerfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and the windows open to keep cool.</span>
   <span id="f000235">But it is vain,</span>
   <span id="f000236">it is useless:</span>
   <span id="f000237">nothing comes in but the balmy breath of December,</span>
   <span id="f000238">with its burden of mocking odors from the flowers that possess the realm outside,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and rejoice in their lawless profusion whilst the spirit of man is low,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and flaunt their gaudy splendors in his face while his soul is clothed in sackcloth and ashes and his heart breaketh.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">Alonzo opened his lips to say,</span>
   <span id="f000242">“You ought to print that,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and get it framed,” but checked himself,</span>
   <span id="f000244">for he heard his aunt speaking to some one else.</span>
   <span id="f000245">He went and stood at the window and looked out upon the wintry prospect.</span>
   <span id="f000246">The storm was driving the snow before it more furiously than ever;</span>
   <span id="f000247">window-shutters were slamming and banging;</span>
   <span id="f000248">a forlorn dog,</span>
   <span id="f000249">with bowed head and tail withdrawn from service,</span>
   <span id="f000250">was pressing his quaking body against a windward wall for shelter and protection;</span>
   <span id="f000251">a young girl was plowing knee-deep through the drifts,</span>
   <span id="f000252">with her face turned from the blast,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and the cape of her waterproof blowing straight rearward over her head.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Alonzo shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and said with a sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000256">“Better the slop,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and the sultry rain,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and even the insolent flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000259">than this!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">He turned from the window,</span>
   <span id="f000261">moved a step,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and stopped in a listening attitude.</span>
   <span id="f000263">The faint,</span>
   <span id="f000264">sweet notes of a familiar song caught his ear.</span>
   <span id="f000265">He remained there,</span>
   <span id="f000266">with his head unconsciously bent forward,</span>
   <span id="f000267">drinking in the melody,</span>
   <span id="f000268">stirring neither hand nor foot,</span>
   <span id="f000269">hardly breathing.</span>
   <span id="f000270">There was a blemish in the execution of the song,</span>
   <span id="f000271">but to Alonzo it seemed an added charm instead of a defect.</span>
   <span id="f000272">This blemish consisted of a marked flatting of the third,</span>
   <span id="f000273">fourth,</span>
   <span id="f000274">fifth,</span>
   <span id="f000275">sixth,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and seventh notes of the refrain or chorus of the piece.</span>
   <span id="f000277">When the music ended,</span>
   <span id="f000278">Alonzo drew a deep breath,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000280">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000281">I never have heard ’In the Sweet By-and-by’ sung like that before!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">He stepped quickly to the desk,</span>
   <span id="f000283">listened a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and said in a guarded,</span>
   <span id="f000285">confidential voice,</span>
   <span id="f000286">“Aunty,</span>
   <span id="f000287">who is this divine singer?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“She is the company I was expecting.</span>
   <span id="f000289">Stays with me a month or two.</span>
   <span id="f000290">I will introduce you.</span>
   <span id="f000291">Miss – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“For goodness’ sake,</span>
   <span id="f000293">wait a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000294">Aunt Susan!</span>
   <span id="f000295">You never stop to think what you are about!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">He flew to his bedchamber,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and returned in a moment perceptibly changed in his outward appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and remarking,</span>
   <span id="f000299">snappishly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“Hang it,</span>
   <span id="f000301">she would have introduced me to this angel in that sky-blue dressing-gown with red-hot lapels!</span>
   <span id="f000302">Women never think,</span>
   <span id="f000303">when they get a-going.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">He hastened and stood by the desk,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and said eagerly,</span>
   <span id="f000306">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000307">Aunty,</span>
   <span id="f000308">I am ready,” and fell to smiling and bowing with all the persuasiveness and elegance that were in him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“Very well.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Miss Rosannah Ethelton,</span>
   <span id="f000311">let me introduce to you my favorite nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000312">Mr.&#160;Alonzo Fitz Clarence.</span>
   <span id="f000313">There!</span>
   <span id="f000314">You are both good people,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and I like you;</span>
   <span id="f000316">so I am going to trust you together while I attend to a few household affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000317">Sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000318">Rosannah;</span>
   <span id="f000319">sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000320">Alonzo.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Good-by;</span>
   <span id="f000322">I sha’n’t be gone long.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">Alonzo had been bowing and smiling all the while,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and motioning imaginary young ladies to sit down in imaginary chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000325">but now he took a seat himself,</span>
   <span id="f000326">mentally saying,</span>
   <span id="f000327">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000328">this is luck!</span>
   <span id="f000329">Let the winds blow now,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and the snow drive,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and the heavens frown!</span>
   <span id="f000332">Little I care!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">While these young people chat themselves into an acquaintanceship,</span>
   <span id="f000334">let us take the liberty of inspecting the sweeter and fairer of the two.</span>
   <span id="f000335">She sat alone,</span>
   <span id="f000336">at her graceful ease,</span>
   <span id="f000337">in a richly furnished apartment which was manifestly the private parlor of a refined and sensible lady,</span>
   <span id="f000338">if signs and symbols may go for anything.</span>
   <span id="f000339">For instance,</span>
   <span id="f000340">by a low,</span>
   <span id="f000341">comfortable chair stood a dainty,</span>
   <span id="f000342">top-heavy workstand,</span>
   <span id="f000343">whose summit was a fancifully embroidered shallow basket,</span>
   <span id="f000344">with varicolored crewels,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and other strings and odds and ends protruding from under the gaping lid and hanging down in negligent profusion.</span>
   <span id="f000346">On the floor lay bright shreds of Turkey red,</span>
   <span id="f000347">Prussian blue,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and kindred fabrics,</span>
   <span id="f000349">bits of ribbon,</span>
   <span id="f000350">a spool or two,</span>
   <span id="f000351">a pair of scissors,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and a roll or so of tinted silken stuffs.</span>
   <span id="f000353">On a luxurious sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000354">upholstered with some sort of soft Indian goods wrought in black and gold threads interwebbed with other threads not so pronounced in color,</span>
   <span id="f000355">lay a great square of coarse white stuff,</span>
   <span id="f000356">upon whose surface a rich bouquet of flowers was growing,</span>
   <span id="f000357">under the deft cultivation of the crochet-needle.</span>
   <span id="f000358">The household cat was asleep on this work of art.</span>
   <span id="f000359">In a bay-window stood an easel with an unfinished picture on it,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and a palette and brushes on a chair beside it.</span>
   <span id="f000361">There were books everywhere:</span>
   <span id="f000362">Robertson’s Sermons,</span>
   <span id="f000363">Tennyson,</span>
   <span id="f000364">Moody and Sankey,</span>
   <span id="f000365">Hawthorne,</span>
   <span id="f000366">Rab and His Friends,</span>
   <span id="f000367">cook-books,</span>
   <span id="f000368">prayer-books,</span>
   <span id="f000369">pattern-books – and books about all kinds of odious and exasperating pottery,</span>
   <span id="f000370">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000371">There was a piano,</span>
   <span id="f000372">with a deck-load of music,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and more in a tender.</span>
   <span id="f000374">There was a great plenty of pictures on the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000375">on the shelves of the mantelpiece,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and around generally;</span>
   <span id="f000377">where coigns of vantage offered were statuettes,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and quaint and pretty gimcracks,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and rare and costly specimens of peculiarly devilish china.</span>
   <span id="f000380">The bay-window gave upon a garden that was ablaze with foreign and domestic flowers and flowering shrubs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">But the sweet young girl was the daintiest thing these premises,</span>
   <span id="f000382">within or without,</span>
   <span id="f000383">could offer for contemplation:</span>
   <span id="f000384">delicately chiseled features,</span>
   <span id="f000385">of Grecian cast;</span>
   <span id="f000386">her complexion the pure snow of a japonica that is receiving a faint reflected enrichment from some scarlet neighbor of the garden;</span>
   <span id="f000387">great,</span>
   <span id="f000388">soft blue eyes fringed with long,</span>
   <span id="f000389">curving lashes;</span>
   <span id="f000390">an expression made up of the trustfulness of a child and the gentleness of a fawn;</span>
   <span id="f000391">a beautiful head crowned with its own prodigal gold;</span>
   <span id="f000392">a lithe and rounded figure,</span>
   <span id="f000393">whose every attitude and movement was instinct with native grace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">Her dress and adornment were marked by that exquisite harmony that can come only of a fine natural taste perfected by culture.</span>
   <span id="f000395">Her gown was of a simple magenta tulle,</span>
   <span id="f000396">cut bias,</span>
   <span id="f000397">traversed by three rows of light-blue flounces,</span>
   <span id="f000398">with the selvage edges turned up with ashes-of-roses chenille;</span>
   <span id="f000399">overdress of dark bay tarlatan with scarlet satin lambrequins;</span>
   <span id="f000400">corn-colored polonaise,</span>
   <span id="f000401">en panier,</span>
   <span id="f000402">looped with mother-of-pearl buttons and silver cord,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and hauled aft and made fast by buff velvet lashings;</span>
   <span id="f000404">basque of lavender reps,</span>
   <span id="f000405">picked out with valenciennes;</span>
   <span id="f000406">low neck,</span>
   <span id="f000407">short sleeves;</span>
   <span id="f000408">maroon velvet necktie edged with delicate pink silk;</span>
   <span id="f000409">inside handkerchief of some simple three-ply ingrain fabric of a soft saffron tint;</span>
   <span id="f000410">coral bracelets and locket-chain;</span>
   <span id="f000411">coiffure of forget-me-nots and lilies-of-the-valley massed around a noble calla.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">This was all;</span>
   <span id="f000413">yet even in this subdued attire she was divinely beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000414">Then what must she have been when adorned for the festival or the ball?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">All this time she had been busily chatting with Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000416">unconscious of our inspection.</span>
   <span id="f000417">The minutes still sped,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and still she talked.</span>
   <span id="f000419">But by and by she happened to look up,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and saw the clock.</span>
   <span id="f000421">A crimson blush sent its rich flood through her cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and she exclaimed:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“There,</span>
   <span id="f000424">good-by,</span>
   <span id="f000425">Mr.&#160;Fitz Clarence;</span>
   <span id="f000426">I must go now!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">She sprang from her chair with such haste that she hardly heard the young man’s answering good-by.</span>
   <span id="f000428">She stood radiant,</span>
   <span id="f000429">graceful,</span>
   <span id="f000430">beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and gazed,</span>
   <span id="f000432">wondering,</span>
   <span id="f000433">upon the accusing clock.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Presently her pouting lips parted,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and she said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">“Five minutes after eleven!</span>
   <span id="f000437">Nearly two hours,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and it did not seem twenty minutes!</span>
   <span id="f000439">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000440">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000441">what will he think of me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">At the self-same moment Alonzo was staring at his clock.</span>
   <span id="f000443">And presently he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“Twenty-five minutes to three!</span>
   <span id="f000445">Nearly two hours,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and I didn’t believe it was two minutes!</span>
   <span id="f000447">Is it possible that this clock is humbugging again?</span>
   <span id="f000448">Miss Ethelton!</span>
   <span id="f000449">Just one moment,</span>
   <span id="f000450">please.</span>
   <span id="f000451">Are you there yet?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000453">but be quick;</span>
   <span id="f000454">I’m going right away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">“Would you be so kind as to tell me what time it is?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">The girl blushed again,</span>
   <span id="f000457">murmured to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000458">“It’s right down cruel of him to ask me!” and then spoke up and answered with admirably counterfeited unconcern,</span>
   <span id="f000459">“Five minutes after eleven.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000461">thank you!</span>
   <span id="f000462">You have to go,</span>
   <span id="f000463">now,</span>
   <span id="f000464">have you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“I’m sorry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">No reply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“Miss Ethelton!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“Well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“You – you’re there yet,</span>
   <span id="f000470">ain’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000472">but please hurry.</span>
   <span id="f000473">What did you want to say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000475">I – well,</span>
   <span id="f000476">nothing in particular.</span>
   <span id="f000477">It’s very lonesome here.</span>
   <span id="f000478">It’s asking a great deal,</span>
   <span id="f000479">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000480">but would you mind talking with me again by and by – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000481">if it will not trouble you too much?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">“I don’t know but I’ll think about it.</span>
   <span id="f000483">I’ll try.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000485">thanks!</span>
   <span id="f000486">Miss Ethelton!…</span>
   <span id="f000487">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000488">me,</span>
   <span id="f000489">she’s gone,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and here are the black clouds and the whirling snow and the raging winds come again!</span>
   <span id="f000491">But she said good-by.</span>
   <span id="f000492">She didn’t say good morning,</span>
   <span id="f000493">she said good-by!</span>
   <span id="f000494">…</span>
   <span id="f000495">The clock was right,</span>
   <span id="f000496">after all.</span>
   <span id="f000497">What a lightning-winged two hours it was!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000498">He sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and gazed dreamily into his fire for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000500">then heaved a sigh and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">“How wonderful it is!</span>
   <span id="f000502">Two little hours ago I was a free man,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and now my heart’s in San Francisco!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">About that time Rosannah Ethelton,</span>
   <span id="f000505">propped in the window-seat of her bedchamber,</span>
   <span id="f000506">book in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000507">was gazing vacantly out over the rainy seas that washed the Golden Gate,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and whispering to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000509">“How different he is from poor Burley,</span>
   <span id="f000510">with his empty head and his single little antic talent of mimicry!”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000511">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000512">Four weeks later Mr.&#160;Sidney Algernon Burley was entertaining a gay luncheon company,</span>
   <span id="f000513">in a sumptuous drawing-room on Telegraph Hill,</span>
   <span id="f000514">with some capital imitations of the voices and gestures of certain popular actors and San Franciscan literary people and Bonanza grandees.</span>
   <span id="f000515">He was elegantly upholstered,</span>
   <span id="f000516">and was a handsome fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000517">barring a trifling cast in his eye.</span>
   <span id="f000518">He seemed very jovial,</span>
   <span id="f000519">but nevertheless he kept his eye on the door with an expectant and uneasy watchfulness.</span>
   <span id="f000520">By and by a nobby lackey appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and delivered a message to the mistress,</span>
   <span id="f000522">who nodded her head understandingly.</span>
   <span id="f000523">That seemed to settle the thing for Mr.&#160;Burley;</span>
   <span id="f000524">his vivacity decreased little by little,</span>
   <span id="f000525">and a dejected look began to creep into one of his eyes and a sinister one into the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">The rest of the company departed in due time,</span>
   <span id="f000527">leaving him with the mistress,</span>
   <span id="f000528">to whom he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">“There is no longer any question about it.</span>
   <span id="f000530">She avoids me.</span>
   <span id="f000531">She continually excuses herself.</span>
   <span id="f000532">If I could see her,</span>
   <span id="f000533">if I could speak to her only a moment – but this suspense – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">“Perhaps her seeming avoidance is mere accident,</span>
   <span id="f000535">Mr.&#160;Burley.</span>
   <span id="f000536">Go to the small drawing-room up-stairs and amuse yourself a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000537">I will despatch a household order that is on my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and then I will go to her room.</span>
   <span id="f000539">Without doubt she will be persuaded to see you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">Mr.&#160;Burley went up-stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000541">intending to go to the small drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000542">but as he was passing “Aunt Susan’s” private parlor,</span>
   <span id="f000543">the door of which stood slightly ajar,</span>
   <span id="f000544">he heard a joyous laugh which he recognized;</span>
   <span id="f000545">so without knock or announcement he stepped confidently in.</span>
   <span id="f000546">But before he could make his presence known he heard words that harrowed up his soul and chilled his young blood,</span>
   <span id="f000547">he heard a voice say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“Darling,</span>
   <span id="f000549">it has come!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">Then he heard Rosannah Ethelton,</span>
   <span id="f000551">whose back was toward him,</span>
   <span id="f000552">say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">“So has yours,</span>
   <span id="f000554">dearest!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">He saw her bowed form bend lower;</span>
   <span id="f000556">he heard her kiss something – not merely once,</span>
   <span id="f000557">but again and again!</span>
   <span id="f000558">His soul raged within him.</span>
   <span id="f000559">The heartbreaking conversation went on:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">“Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000561">I knew you must be beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000562">but this is dazzling,</span>
   <span id="f000563">this is blinding,</span>
   <span id="f000564">this is intoxicating!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">“Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000566">it is such happiness to hear you say it.</span>
   <span id="f000567">I know it is not true,</span>
   <span id="f000568">but I am so grateful to have you think it is,</span>
   <span id="f000569">nevertheless!</span>
   <span id="f000570">I knew you must have a noble face,</span>
   <span id="f000571">but the grace and majesty of the reality beggar the poor creation of my fancy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">Burley heard that rattling shower of kisses again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000573">“Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000574">my Rosannah!</span>
   <span id="f000575">The photograph flatters me,</span>
   <span id="f000576">but you must not allow yourself to think of that.</span>
   <span id="f000577">Sweetheart?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000578">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000579">Alonzo.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“I am so happy,</span>
   <span id="f000581">Rosannah.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000583">Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000584">none that have gone before me knew what love was,</span>
   <span id="f000585">none that come after me will ever know what happiness is.</span>
   <span id="f000586">I float in a gorgeous cloud land,</span>
   <span id="f000587">a boundless firmament of enchanted and bewildering ecstasy!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000589">my Rosannah!</span>
   <span id="f000590">– for you are mine,</span>
   <span id="f000591">are you not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“Wholly,</span>
   <span id="f000593">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000594">wholly yours,</span>
   <span id="f000595">Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000596">now and forever!</span>
   <span id="f000597">All the day long,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and all through my nightly dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000599">one song sings itself,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and its sweet burden is,</span>
   <span id="f000601">’Alonzo Fitz Clarence,</span>
   <span id="f000602">Alonzo Fitz Clarence,</span>
   <span id="f000603">Eastport,</span>
   <span id="f000604">state of Maine!’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">“Curse him,</span>
   <span id="f000606">I’ve got his address,</span>
   <span id="f000607">anyway!” roared Burley,</span>
   <span id="f000608">inwardly,</span>
   <span id="f000609">and rushed from the place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">Just behind the unconscious Alonzo stood his mother,</span>
   <span id="f000611">a picture of astonishment.</span>
   <span id="f000612">She was so muffled from head to heel in furs that nothing of herself was visible but her eyes and nose.</span>
   <span id="f000613">She was a good allegory of winter,</span>
   <span id="f000614">for she was powdered all over with snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000615">Behind the unconscious Rosannah stood “Aunt Susan,” another picture of astonishment.</span>
   <span id="f000616">She was a good allegory of summer,</span>
   <span id="f000617">for she was lightly clad,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and was vigorously cooling the perspiration on her face with a fan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">Both of these women had tears of joy in their eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">“Soho!” exclaimed Mrs.&#160;Fitz Clarence,</span>
   <span id="f000621">“this explains why nobody has been able to drag you out of your room for six weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000622">Alonzo!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">“So ho!” exclaimed Aunt Susan,</span>
   <span id="f000624">“this explains why you have been a hermit for the past six weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000625">Rosannah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">The young couple were on their feet in an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000627">abashed,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and standing like detected dealers in stolen goods awaiting judge Lynch’s doom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">“Bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000630">my son!</span>
   <span id="f000631">I am happy in your happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000632">Come to your mother’s arms,</span>
   <span id="f000633">Alonzo!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">“Bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000635">Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000636">for my dear nephew’s sake!</span>
   <span id="f000637">Come to my arms!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">Then was there a mingling of hearts and of tears of rejoicing on Telegraph Hill and in Eastport Square.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">Servants were called by the elders,</span>
   <span id="f000640">in both places.</span>
   <span id="f000641">Unto one was given the order,</span>
   <span id="f000642">“Pile this fire high,</span>
   <span id="f000643">with hickory wood,</span>
   <span id="f000644">and bring me a roasting-hot lemonade.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">Unto the other was given the order,</span>
   <span id="f000646">“Put out this fire,</span>
   <span id="f000647">and bring me two palm-leaf fans and a pitcher of ice-water.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">Then the young people were dismissed,</span>
   <span id="f000649">and the elders sat down to talk the sweet surprise over and make the wedding plans.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">Some minutes before this Mr.&#160;Burley rushed from the mansion on Telegraph Hill without meeting or taking formal leave of anybody.</span>
   <span id="f000651">He hissed through his teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000652">in unconscious imitation of a popular favorite in melodrama,</span>
   <span id="f000653">“Him shall she never wed!</span>
   <span id="f000654">I have sworn it!</span>
   <span id="f000655">Ere great Nature shall have doffed her winter’s ermine to don the emerald gauds of spring,</span>
   <span id="f000656">she shall be mine!”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000657">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000658">Two weeks later.</span>
   <span id="f000659">Every few hours,</span>
   <span id="f000660">during same three or four days,</span>
   <span id="f000661">a very prim and devout-looking Episcopal clergyman,</span>
   <span id="f000662">with a cast in his eye,</span>
   <span id="f000663">had visited Alonzo.</span>
   <span id="f000664">According to his card,</span>
   <span id="f000665">he was the Rev.</span>
   <span id="f000666">Melton Hargrave,</span>
   <span id="f000667">of Cincinnati.</span>
   <span id="f000668">He said he had retired from the ministry on account of his health.</span>
   <span id="f000669">If he had said on account of ill-health,</span>
   <span id="f000670">he would probably have erred,</span>
   <span id="f000671">to judge by his wholesome looks and firm build.</span>
   <span id="f000672">He was the inventor of an improvement in telephones,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and hoped to make his bread by selling the privilege of using it.</span>
   <span id="f000674">“At present,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000675">“a man may go and tap a telegraph wire which is conveying a song or a concert from one state to another,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and he can attach his private telephone and steal a hearing of that music as it passes along.</span>
   <span id="f000677">My invention will stop all that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">“Well,” answered Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000679">“if the owner of the music could not miss what was stolen,</span>
   <span id="f000680">why should he care?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“He shouldn’t care,” said the Reverend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000682">“Well?” said Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000683">inquiringly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000684">“Suppose,” replied the Reverend,</span>
   <span id="f000685">“suppose that,</span>
   <span id="f000686">instead of music that was passing along and being stolen,</span>
   <span id="f000687">the burden of the wire was loving endearments of the most private and sacred nature?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">Alonzo shuddered from head to heel.</span>
   <span id="f000689">“Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000690">it is a priceless invention,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000691">“I must have it at any cost.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">But the invention was delayed somewhere on the road from Cincinnati,</span>
   <span id="f000693">most unaccountably.</span>
   <span id="f000694">The impatient Alonzo could hardly wait.</span>
   <span id="f000695">The thought of Rosannah’s sweet words being shared with him by some ribald thief was galling to him.</span>
   <span id="f000696">The Reverend came frequently and lamented the delay,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and told of measures he had taken to hurry things up.</span>
   <span id="f000698">This was some little comfort to Alonzo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000699">One forenoon the Reverend ascended the stairs and knocked at Alonzo’s door.</span>
   <span id="f000700">There was no response.</span>
   <span id="f000701">He entered,</span>
   <span id="f000702">glanced eagerly around,</span>
   <span id="f000703">closed the door softly,</span>
   <span id="f000704">then ran to the telephone.</span>
   <span id="f000705">The exquisitely soft and remote strains of the “Sweet By-and-by” came floating through the instrument.</span>
   <span id="f000706">The singer was flatting,</span>
   <span id="f000707">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000708">the five notes that follow the first two in the chorus,</span>
   <span id="f000709">when the Reverend interrupted her with this word,</span>
   <span id="f000710">in a voice which was an exact imitation of Alonzo’s,</span>
   <span id="f000711">with just the faintest flavor of impatience added:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">“Sweetheart?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000714">Alonzo?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Please don’t sing that any more this week – try something modern.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">The agile step that goes with a happy heart was heard on the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and the Reverend,</span>
   <span id="f000718">smiling diabolically,</span>
   <span id="f000719">sought sudden refuge behind the heavy folds of the velvet window-curtains.</span>
   <span id="f000720">Alonzo entered and flew to the telephone.</span>
   <span id="f000721">Said he:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000722">“Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000723">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000724">shall we sing something together?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“Something modern?” asked she,</span>
   <span id="f000726">with sarcastic bitterness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000727">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000728">if you prefer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">“Sing it yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000730">if you like!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">This snappishness amazed and wounded the young man.</span>
   <span id="f000732">He said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">“Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000734">that was not like you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">“I suppose it becomes me as much as your very polite speech became you,</span>
   <span id="f000736">Mr.&#160;Fitz Clarence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000737">“Mister Fitz Clarence!</span>
   <span id="f000738">Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000739">there was nothing impolite about my speech.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000741">indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000742">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000743">then,</span>
   <span id="f000744">I misunderstood you,</span>
   <span id="f000745">and I most humbly beg your pardon,</span>
   <span id="f000746">ha-ha-ha!</span>
   <span id="f000747">No doubt you said,</span>
   <span id="f000748">’Don’t sing it any more to-day.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">“Sing what any more to-day?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“The song you mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000751">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000752">How very obtuse we are,</span>
   <span id="f000753">all of a sudden!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“I never mentioned any song.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000755">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000756">you didn’t?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000758">I didn’t!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000759">“I am compelled to remark that you did.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000760">“And I am obliged to reiterate that I didn’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000761">“A second rudeness!</span>
   <span id="f000762">That is sufficient,</span>
   <span id="f000763">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000764">I will never forgive you.</span>
   <span id="f000765">All is over between us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000766">Then came a muffled sound of crying.</span>
   <span id="f000767">Alonzo hastened to say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000769">Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000770">unsay those words!</span>
   <span id="f000771">There is some dreadful mystery here,</span>
   <span id="f000772">some hideous mistake.</span>
   <span id="f000773">I am utterly earnest and sincere when I say I never said anything about any song.</span>
   <span id="f000774">I would not hurt you for the whole world…</span>
   <span id="f000775">.</span>
   <span id="f000776">Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000777">dear speak to me,</span>
   <span id="f000778">won’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">There was a pause;</span>
   <span id="f000780">then Alonzo heard the girl’s sobbings retreating,</span>
   <span id="f000781">and knew she had gone from the telephone.</span>
   <span id="f000782">He rose with a heavy sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000783">and hastened from the room,</span>
   <span id="f000784">saying to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000785">“I will ransack the charity missions and the haunts of the poor for my mother.</span>
   <span id="f000786">She will persuade her that I never meant to wound her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000787">A minute later the Reverend was crouching over the telephone like a cat that knoweth the ways of the prey.</span>
   <span id="f000788">He had not very many minutes to wait.</span>
   <span id="f000789">A soft,</span>
   <span id="f000790">repentant voice,</span>
   <span id="f000791">tremulous with tears,</span>
   <span id="f000792">said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000793">“Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000794">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000795">I have been wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000796">You could not have said so cruel a thing.</span>
   <span id="f000797">It must have been some one who imitated your voice in malice or in jest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000798">The Reverend coldly answered,</span>
   <span id="f000799">in Alonzo’s tones:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000800">“You have said all was over between us.</span>
   <span id="f000801">So let it be.</span>
   <span id="f000802">I spurn your proffered repentance,</span>
   <span id="f000803">and despise it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">Then he departed,</span>
   <span id="f000805">radiant with fiendish triumph,</span>
   <span id="f000806">to return no more with his imaginary telephonic invention forever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000807">Four hours afterward Alonzo arrived with his mother from her favorite haunts of poverty and vice.</span>
   <span id="f000808">They summoned the San Francisco household;</span>
   <span id="f000809">but there was no reply.</span>
   <span id="f000810">They waited,</span>
   <span id="f000811">and continued to wait,</span>
   <span id="f000812">upon the voiceless telephone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000814">when it was sunset in San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f000815">and three hours and a half after dark in Eastport,</span>
   <span id="f000816">an answer to the oft-repeated cry of “Rosannah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">But,</span>
   <span id="f000818">alas,</span>
   <span id="f000819">it was Aunt Susan’s voice that spake.</span>
   <span id="f000820">She said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">“I have been out all day;</span>
   <span id="f000822">just got in.</span>
   <span id="f000823">I will go and find her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000824">The watchers waited two minutes – five minutes – ten minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000825">Then came these fatal words,</span>
   <span id="f000826">in a frightened tone:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000827">“She is gone,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and her baggage with her.</span>
   <span id="f000829">To visit another friend,</span>
   <span id="f000830">she told the servants.</span>
   <span id="f000831">But I found this note on the table in her room.</span>
   <span id="f000832">Listen:</span>
   <span id="f000833">’I am gone;</span>
   <span id="f000834">seek not to trace me out;</span>
   <span id="f000835">my heart is broken;</span>
   <span id="f000836">you will never see me more.</span>
   <span id="f000837">Tell him I shall always think of him when I sing my poor ”Sweet By-and-by,“ but never of the unkind words he said about it.’ That is her note.</span>
   <span id="f000838">Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000839">Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000840">what does it mean?</span>
   <span id="f000841">What has happened?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000842">But Alonzo sat white and cold as the dead.</span>
   <span id="f000843">His mother threw back the velvet curtains and opened a window.</span>
   <span id="f000844">The cold air refreshed the sufferer,</span>
   <span id="f000845">and he told his aunt his dismal story.</span>
   <span id="f000846">Meantime his mother was inspecting a card which had disclosed itself upon the floor when she cast the curtains back.</span>
   <span id="f000847">It read,</span>
   <span id="f000848">“Mr.&#160;Sidney Algernon Burley,</span>
   <span id="f000849">San Francisco.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">“The miscreant!” shouted Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000851">and rushed forth to seek the false Reverend and destroy him;</span>
   <span id="f000852">for the card explained everything,</span>
   <span id="f000853">since in the course of the lovers’ mutual confessions they had told each other all about all the sweethearts they had ever had,</span>
   <span id="f000854">and thrown no end of mud at their failings and foibles for lovers always do that.</span>
   <span id="f000855">It has a fascination that ranks next after billing and cooing.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000856">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000857">During the next two months many things happened.</span>
   <span id="f000858">It had early transpired that Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000859">poor suffering orphan,</span>
   <span id="f000860">had neither returned to her grandmother in Portland,</span>
   <span id="f000861">Oregon,</span>
   <span id="f000862">nor sent any word to her save a duplicate of the woeful note she had left in the mansion on Telegraph Hill.</span>
   <span id="f000863">Whosoever was sheltering her – if she was still alive – had been persuaded not to betray her whereabouts,</span>
   <span id="f000864">without doubt;</span>
   <span id="f000865">for all efforts to find trace of her had failed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000866">Did Alonzo give her up?</span>
   <span id="f000867">Not he.</span>
   <span id="f000868">He said to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000869">“She will sing that sweet song when she is sad;</span>
   <span id="f000870">I shall find her.” So he took his carpet-sack and a portable telephone,</span>
   <span id="f000871">and shook the snow of his native city from his arctics,</span>
   <span id="f000872">and went forth into the world.</span>
   <span id="f000873">He wandered far and wide and in many states.</span>
   <span id="f000874">Time and again,</span>
   <span id="f000875">strangers were astounded to see a wasted,</span>
   <span id="f000876">pale,</span>
   <span id="f000877">and woe-worn man laboriously climb a telegraph-pole in wintry and lonely places,</span>
   <span id="f000878">perch sadly there an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000879">with his ear at a little box,</span>
   <span id="f000880">then come sighing down,</span>
   <span id="f000881">and wander wearily away.</span>
   <span id="f000882">Sometimes they shot at him,</span>
   <span id="f000883">as peasants do at aeronauts,</span>
   <span id="f000884">thinking him mad and dangerous.</span>
   <span id="f000885">Thus his clothes were much shredded by bullets and his person grievously lacerated.</span>
   <span id="f000886">But he bore it all patiently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000887">In the beginning of his pilgrimage he used often to say,</span>
   <span id="f000888">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000889">if I could but hear the ’Sweet By-and-by’!” But toward the end of it he used to shed tears of anguish and say,</span>
   <span id="f000890">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000891">if I could but hear something else!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000892">Thus a month and three weeks drifted by,</span>
   <span id="f000893">and at last some humane people seized him and confined him in a private mad-house in New York.</span>
   <span id="f000894">He made no moan,</span>
   <span id="f000895">for his strength was all gone,</span>
   <span id="f000896">and with it all heart and all hope.</span>
   <span id="f000897">The superintendent,</span>
   <span id="f000898">in pity,</span>
   <span id="f000899">gave up his own comfortable parlor and bedchamber to him and nursed him with affectionate devotion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000900">At the end of a week the patient was able to leave his bed for the first time.</span>
   <span id="f000901">He was lying,</span>
   <span id="f000902">comfortably pillowed,</span>
   <span id="f000903">on a sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000904">listening to the plaintive Miserere of the bleak March winds and the muffled sound of tramping feet in the street below for it was about six in the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000905">and New York was going home from work.</span>
   <span id="f000906">He had a bright fire and the added cheer of a couple of student-lamps.</span>
   <span id="f000907">So it was warm and snug within,</span>
   <span id="f000908">though bleak and raw without;</span>
   <span id="f000909">it was light and bright within,</span>
   <span id="f000910">though outside it was as dark and dreary as if the world had been lit with Hartford gas.</span>
   <span id="f000911">Alonzo smiled feebly to think how his loving vagaries had made him a maniac in the eyes of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000912">and was proceeding to pursue his line of thought further,</span>
   <span id="f000913">when a faint,</span>
   <span id="f000914">sweet strain,</span>
   <span id="f000915">the very ghost of sound,</span>
   <span id="f000916">so remote and attenuated it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000917">struck upon his ear.</span>
   <span id="f000918">His pulses stood still;</span>
   <span id="f000919">he listened with parted lips and bated breath.</span>
   <span id="f000920">The song flowed on – he waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000921">listening,</span>
   <span id="f000922">rising slowly and unconsciously from his recumbent position.</span>
   <span id="f000923">At last he exclaimed:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000924">“It is!</span>
   <span id="f000925">it is she!</span>
   <span id="f000926">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000927">the divine hated notes!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000928">He dragged himself eagerly to the corner whence the sounds proceeded,</span>
   <span id="f000929">tore aside a curtain,</span>
   <span id="f000930">and discovered a telephone.</span>
   <span id="f000931">He bent over,</span>
   <span id="f000932">and as the last note died away he burst forthwith the exclamation:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000933">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000934">thank Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000935">found at last!</span>
   <span id="f000936">Speak to me,</span>
   <span id="f000937">Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000938">dearest!</span>
   <span id="f000939">The cruel mystery has been unraveled;</span>
   <span id="f000940">it was the villain Burley who mimicked my voice and wounded you with insolent speech!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">There was a breathless pause,</span>
   <span id="f000942">a waiting age to Alonzo;</span>
   <span id="f000943">then a faint sound came,</span>
   <span id="f000944">framing itself into language:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000945">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000946">say those precious words again,</span>
   <span id="f000947">Alonzo!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000948">“They are the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000949">the veritable truth,</span>
   <span id="f000950">my Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000951">and you shall have the proof,</span>
   <span id="f000952">ample and abundant proof!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">“Oh;</span>
   <span id="f000954">Alonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000955">stay by me!</span>
   <span id="f000956">Leave me not for a moment!</span>
   <span id="f000957">Let me feel that you are near me!</span>
   <span id="f000958">Tell me we shall never be parted more!</span>
   <span id="f000959">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000960">this happy hour,</span>
   <span id="f000961">this blessed hour,</span>
   <span id="f000962">this memorable hour!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000963">“We will make record of it,</span>
   <span id="f000964">my Rosannah;</span>
   <span id="f000965">every year,</span>
   <span id="f000966">as this dear hour chimes from the clock,</span>
   <span id="f000967">we will celebrate it with thanksgivings,</span>
   <span id="f000968">all the years of our life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000969">“We will,</span>
   <span id="f000970">we will,</span>
   <span id="f000971">Alonzo!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000972">“Four minutes after six,</span>
   <span id="f000973">in the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000974">my Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000975">shall henceforth – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000976">“Twenty-three minutes after twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000977">afternoon shall – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000978">“Why;</span>
   <span id="f000979">Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f000980">darling,</span>
   <span id="f000981">where are you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000982">“In Honolulu,</span>
   <span id="f000983">Sandwich Islands.</span>
   <span id="f000984">And where are you?</span>
   <span id="f000985">Stay by me;</span>
   <span id="f000986">do not leave me for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000987">I cannot bear it.</span>
   <span id="f000988">Are you at home?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000989">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000990">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000991">I am in New York – a patient in the doctor’s hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000992">An agonizing shriek came buzzing to Alonzo’s ear,</span>
   <span id="f000993">like the sharp buzzing of a hurt gnat;</span>
   <span id="f000994">it lost power in traveling five thousand miles.</span>
   <span id="f000995">Alonzo hastened to say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000996">“Calm yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000997">my child.</span>
   <span id="f000998">It is nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000999">Already I am getting well under the sweet healing of your presence.</span>
   <span id="f001000">Rosannah?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001001">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001002">Alonzo?</span>
   <span id="f001003">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001004">how you terrified me!</span>
   <span id="f001005">Say on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001006">“Name the happy day,</span>
   <span id="f001007">Rosannah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001008">There was a little pause.</span>
   <span id="f001009">Then a diffident small voice replied,</span>
   <span id="f001010">“I blush – but it is with pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f001011">it is with happiness.</span>
   <span id="f001012">Would – would you like to have it soon?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">“This very night,</span>
   <span id="f001014">Rosannah!</span>
   <span id="f001015">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001016">let us risk no more delays.</span>
   <span id="f001017">Let it be now!</span>
   <span id="f001018">– this very night,</span>
   <span id="f001019">this very moment!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001020">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001021">you impatient creature!</span>
   <span id="f001022">I have nobody here but my good old uncle,</span>
   <span id="f001023">a missionary for a generation,</span>
   <span id="f001024">and now retired from service – nobody but him and his wife.</span>
   <span id="f001025">I would so dearly like it if your mother and your Aunt Susan – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001026">“Our mother and our Aunt Susan,</span>
   <span id="f001027">my Rosannah.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001028">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001029">our mother and our Aunt Susan – I am content to word it so if it pleases you;</span>
   <span id="f001030">I would so like to have them present.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001031">“So would I.</span>
   <span id="f001032">Suppose you telegraph Aunt Susan.</span>
   <span id="f001033">How long would it take her to come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001034">“The steamer leaves San Francisco day after tomorrow.</span>
   <span id="f001035">The passage is eight days.</span>
   <span id="f001036">She would be here the 31st of March.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001037">“Then name the 1st of April;</span>
   <span id="f001038">do,</span>
   <span id="f001039">Rosannah,</span>
   <span id="f001040">dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001041">“Mercy,</span>
   <span id="f001042">it would make us April fools,</span>
   <span id="f001043">Alonzo!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001044">“So we be the happiest ones that that day’s suit looks down upon in the whole broad expanse of the globe,</span>
   <span id="f001045">why need we care?</span>
   <span id="f001046">Call it the 1st of April,</span>
   <span id="f001047">dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001048">“Then the 1st of April at shall be,</span>
   <span id="f001049">with all my heart!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001050">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001051">happiness!</span>
   <span id="f001052">Name the hour,</span>
   <span id="f001053">too,</span>
   <span id="f001054">Rosannah.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001055">“I like the morning,</span>
   <span id="f001056">it is so blithe.</span>
   <span id="f001057">Will eight in the morning do,</span>
   <span id="f001058">Alonzo?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001059">“The loveliest hour in the day – since it will make you mine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001060">There was a feeble but frantic sound for some little time,</span>
   <span id="f001061">as if wool-lipped,</span>
   <span id="f001062">disembodied spirits were exchanging kisses;</span>
   <span id="f001063">then Rosannah said,</span>
   <span id="f001064">“Excuse me just a moment,</span>
   <span id="f001065">dear;</span>
   <span id="f001066">I have an appointment,</span>
   <span id="f001067">and am called to meet it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001068">The young girl sought a large parlor and took her place at a window which looked out upon a beautiful scene.</span>
   <span id="f001069">To the left one could view the charming Nuuana Valley,</span>
   <span id="f001070">fringed with its ruddy flush of tropical flowers and its plumed and graceful cocoa palms;</span>
   <span id="f001071">its rising foothills clothed in the shining green of lemon,</span>
   <span id="f001072">citron,</span>
   <span id="f001073">and orange groves;</span>
   <span id="f001074">its storied precipice beyond,</span>
   <span id="f001075">where the first Kamehameha drove his defeated foes over to their destruction,</span>
   <span id="f001076">a spot that had forgotten its grim history,</span>
   <span id="f001077">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f001078">for now it was smiling,</span>
   <span id="f001079">as almost always at noonday,</span>
   <span id="f001080">under the glowing arches of a succession of rainbows.</span>
   <span id="f001081">In front of the window one could see the quaint town,</span>
   <span id="f001082">and here and there a picturesque group of dusky natives,</span>
   <span id="f001083">enjoying the blistering weather;</span>
   <span id="f001084">and far to the right lay the restless ocean,</span>
   <span id="f001085">tossing its white mane in the sunshine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001086">Rosannah stood there,</span>
   <span id="f001087">in her filmy white raiment,</span>
   <span id="f001088">fanning her flushed and heated face,</span>
   <span id="f001089">waiting.</span>
   <span id="f001090">A Kanaka boy,</span>
   <span id="f001091">clothed in a damaged blue necktie and part of a silk hat,</span>
   <span id="f001092">thrust his head in at the door,</span>
   <span id="f001093">and announced,</span>
   <span id="f001094">“’Frisco haole!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001095">“Show him in,” said the girl,</span>
   <span id="f001096">straightening herself up and assuming a meaning dignity.</span>
   <span id="f001097">Mr.&#160;Sidney Algernon Burley entered,</span>
   <span id="f001098">clad from head to heel in dazzling snow – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f001099">in the lightest and whitest of Irish linen.</span>
   <span id="f001100">He moved eagerly forward,</span>
   <span id="f001101">but the girl made a gesture and gave him a look which checked him suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f001102">She said,</span>
   <span id="f001103">coldly,</span>
   <span id="f001104">“I am here,</span>
   <span id="f001105">as I promised.</span>
   <span id="f001106">I believed your assertions,</span>
   <span id="f001107">I yielded to your importune lies,</span>
   <span id="f001108">and said I would name the day.</span>
   <span id="f001109">I name the 1st of April – eight in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f001110">NOW GO!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001111">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001112">my dearest,</span>
   <span id="f001113">if the gratitude of a lifetime – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001114">“Not a word.</span>
   <span id="f001115">Spare me all sight of you,</span>
   <span id="f001116">all communication with you,</span>
   <span id="f001117">until that hour.</span>
   <span id="f001118">No – no supplications;</span>
   <span id="f001119">I will have it so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001120">When he was gone,</span>
   <span id="f001121">she sank exhausted in a chair,</span>
   <span id="f001122">for the long siege of troubles she had undergone had wasted her strength.</span>
   <span id="f001123">Presently she said,</span>
   <span id="f001124">“What a narrow escape!</span>
   <span id="f001125">If the hour appointed had been an hour earlier – Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001126">horror,</span>
   <span id="f001127">what an escape I have made!</span>
   <span id="f001128">And to think I had come to imagine I was loving this beguiling,</span>
   <span id="f001129">this truthless,</span>
   <span id="f001130">this treacherous monster!</span>
   <span id="f001131">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001132">he shall repent his villainy!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001133">Let us now draw this history to a close,</span>
   <span id="f001134">for little more needs to be told.</span>
   <span id="f001135">On the 2d of the ensuing April,</span>
   <span id="f001136">the Honolulu Advertiser contained this notice:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001137">MARRIED.</span>
   <span id="f001138">– In this city,</span>
   <span id="f001139">by telephone,</span>
   <span id="f001140">yesterday morning,</span>
   <span id="f001141">– at eight o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f001142">by Rev.</span>
   <span id="f001143">Nathan Hays,</span>
   <span id="f001144">assisted by Rev.</span>
   <span id="f001145">Nathaniel Davis,</span>
   <span id="f001146">of New York,</span>
   <span id="f001147">Mr.&#160;Alonzo Fitz Clarence,</span>
   <span id="f001148">of Eastport,</span>
   <span id="f001149">Maine,</span>
   <span id="f001150">U.</span>
   <span id="f001151">S.,</span>
   <span id="f001152">and Miss Rosannah Ethelton,</span>
   <span id="f001153">of Portland,</span>
   <span id="f001154">Oregon,</span>
   <span id="f001155">U.</span>
   <span id="f001156">S.</span>
   <span id="f001157">Mrs.&#160;Susan Howland,</span>
   <span id="f001158">of San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f001159">a friend of the bride,</span>
   <span id="f001160">was present,</span>
   <span id="f001161">she being the guest of the Rev.</span>
   <span id="f001162">Mr.&#160;Hays and wife,</span>
   <span id="f001163">uncle and aunt of the bride.</span>
   <span id="f001164">Mr.&#160;Sidney Algernon Burley,</span>
   <span id="f001165">of San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f001166">was also present but did not remain till the conclusion of the marriage service.</span>
   <span id="f001167">Captain Hawthorne’s beautiful yacht,</span>
   <span id="f001168">tastefully decorated,</span>
   <span id="f001169">was in waiting,</span>
   <span id="f001170">and the happy bride and her friends immediately departed on a bridal trip to Lahaina and Haleakala.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001171">The New York papers of the same date contained this notice:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001172">MARRIED.</span>
   <span id="f001173">– In this city,</span>
   <span id="f001174">yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f001175">by telephone,</span>
   <span id="f001176">at half-past two in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f001177">by Rev.</span>
   <span id="f001178">Nathaniel Davis,</span>
   <span id="f001179">assisted by Rev.</span>
   <span id="f001180">Nathan Hays,</span>
   <span id="f001181">of Honolulu,</span>
   <span id="f001182">Mr.&#160;Alonzo Fitz Clarence,</span>
   <span id="f001183">of Eastport,</span>
   <span id="f001184">Maine,</span>
   <span id="f001185">and Miss Rosannah Ethelton,</span>
   <span id="f001186">of Portland,</span>
   <span id="f001187">Oregon.</span>
   <span id="f001188">The parents and several friends of the bridegroom were present,</span>
   <span id="f001189">and enjoyed a sumptuous breakfast and much festivity until nearly sunrise,</span>
   <span id="f001190">and then departed on a bridal trip to the Aquarium,</span>
   <span id="f001191">the bridegroom’s state of health not admitting of a more extended journey.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001192">Toward the close of that memorable day Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Alonzo Fitz Clarence were buried in sweet converse concerning the pleasures of their several bridal tours,</span>
   <span id="f001193">when suddenly the young wife exclaimed:</span>
   <span id="f001194">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001195">Lonny,</span>
   <span id="f001196">I forgot!</span>
   <span id="f001197">I did what I said I would.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001198">“Did you,</span>
   <span id="f001199">dear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001200">“Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f001201">I did.</span>
   <span id="f001202">I made him the April fool!</span>
   <span id="f001203">And I told him so,</span>
   <span id="f001204">too!</span>
   <span id="f001205">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f001206">it was a charming surprise!</span>
   <span id="f001207">There he stood,</span>
   <span id="f001208">sweltering in a black dress-suit,</span>
   <span id="f001209">with the mercury leaking out of the top of the thermometer,</span>
   <span id="f001210">waiting to be married.</span>
   <span id="f001211">You should have seen the look he gave when I whispered it in his ear.</span>
   <span id="f001212">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f001213">his wickedness cost me many a heartache and many a tear,</span>
   <span id="f001214">but the score was all squared up,</span>
   <span id="f001215">then.</span>
   <span id="f001216">So the vengeful feeling went right out of my heart,</span>
   <span id="f001217">and I begged him to stay,</span>
   <span id="f001218">and said I forgave him everything.</span>
   <span id="f001219">But he wouldn’t.</span>
   <span id="f001220">He said he would live to be avenged;</span>
   <span id="f001221">said he would make our lives a curse to us.</span>
   <span id="f001222">But he can’t,</span>
   <span id="f001223">can he,</span>
   <span id="f001224">dear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001225">“Never in this world,</span>
   <span id="f001226">my Rosannah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001227">Aunt Susan,</span>
   <span id="f001228">the Oregonian grandmother,</span>
   <span id="f001229">and the young couple and their Eastport parents,</span>
   <span id="f001230">are all happy at this writing,</span>
   <span id="f001231">and likely to remain so.</span>
   <span id="f001232">Aunt Susan brought the bride from the islands,</span>
   <span id="f001233">accompanied her across our continent,</span>
   <span id="f001234">and had the happiness of witnessing the rapturous meeting between an adoring husband and wife who had never seen each other until that moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001235">A word about the wretched Burley,</span>
   <span id="f001236">whose wicked machinations came so near wrecking the hearts and lives of our poor young friends,</span>
   <span id="f001237">will be sufficient.</span>
   <span id="f001238">In a murderous attempt to seize a crippled and helpless artisan who he fancied had done him some small offense,</span>
   <span id="f001239">he fell into a caldron of boiling oil and expired before he could be extinguished.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

