<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">On the Decay of the Art of Lying</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">ESSAY,</span>
   <span id="f000003">FOR DISCUSSION,</span>
   <span id="f000004">READ AT A MEETING OF THE HISTORICAL AND ANTIQUARIAN CLUB OF HARTFORD,</span>
   <span id="f000005">AND OFFERED FOR THE THIRTY-DOLLAR PRIZE.</span>
   <span id="f000006">NOW FIRST PUBLISHED.</span>
   <span id="f000007">– [Did not take the prize]</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000008">Observe,</span>
   <span id="f000009">I do not mean to suggest that the custom of lying has suffered any decay or interruption – no,</span>
   <span id="f000010">for the Lie,</span>
   <span id="f000011">as a Virtue,</span>
   <span id="f000012">a Principle,</span>
   <span id="f000013">is eternal;</span>
   <span id="f000014">the Lie,</span>
   <span id="f000015">as a recreation,</span>
   <span id="f000016">a solace,</span>
   <span id="f000017">a refuge in time of need,</span>
   <span id="f000018">the fourth Grace,</span>
   <span id="f000019">the tenth Muse,</span>
   <span id="f000020">man’s best and surest friend,</span>
   <span id="f000021">is immortal,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and cannot perish from the earth while this Club remains.</span>
   <span id="f000023">My complaint simply concerns the decay of the art of lying.</span>
   <span id="f000024">No high-minded man,</span>
   <span id="f000025">no man of right feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000026">can contemplate the lumbering and slovenly lying of the present day without grieving to see a noble art so prostituted.</span>
   <span id="f000027">In this veteran presence I naturally enter upon this scheme with diffidence;</span>
   <span id="f000028">it is like an old maid trying to teach nursery matters to the mothers in Israel.</span>
   <span id="f000029">It would not become me to criticize you,</span>
   <span id="f000030">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000031">who are nearly all my elders – and my superiors,</span>
   <span id="f000032">in this thing – and so,</span>
   <span id="f000033">if I should here and there seem to do it,</span>
   <span id="f000034">I trust it will in most cases be more in a spirit of admiration than of fault-finding;</span>
   <span id="f000035">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000036">if this finest of the fine arts had everywhere received the attention,</span>
   <span id="f000037">encouragement,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and conscientious practice and development which this Club has devoted to it I should not need to utter this lament or shed a single tear.</span>
   <span id="f000039">I do not say this to flatter:</span>
   <span id="f000040">I say it in a spirit of just and appreciative recognition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">[It had been my intention,</span>
   <span id="f000042">at this point,</span>
   <span id="f000043">to mention names and give illustrative specimens,</span>
   <span id="f000044">but indications observable about me admonished me to beware of particulars and confine myself to generalities.]</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">No fact is more firmly established than that lying is a necessity of our circumstances – the deduction that it is then a Virtue goes without saying.</span>
   <span id="f000046">No virtue can reach its highest usefulness without careful and diligent cultivation – therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000047">it goes without saying that this one ought to be taught in the public schools – at the fireside – even in the newspapers.</span>
   <span id="f000048">What chance has the ignorant,</span>
   <span id="f000049">uncultivated liar against the educated expert?</span>
   <span id="f000050">What chance have I against Mr.&#160;Per – against a lawyer?</span>
   <span id="f000051">Judicious lying is what the world needs.</span>
   <span id="f000052">I sometimes think it were even better and safer not to lie at all than to lie injudiciously.</span>
   <span id="f000053">An awkward,</span>
   <span id="f000054">unscientific lie is often as ineffectual as the truth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">Now let us see what the philosophers say.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Note that venerable proverb:</span>
   <span id="f000057">Children and fools always speak the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000058">The deduction is plain – adults and wise persons never speak it.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Parkman,</span>
   <span id="f000060">the historian,</span>
   <span id="f000061">says,</span>
   <span id="f000062">“The principle of truth may itself be carried into an absurdity.” In another place in the same chapter he says,</span>
   <span id="f000063">“The saying is old that truth should not be spoken at all times;</span>
   <span id="f000064">and those whom a sick conscience worries into habitual violation of the maxim are imbeciles and nuisances.” It is strong language,</span>
   <span id="f000065">but true.</span>
   <span id="f000066">None of us could live with an habitual truth-teller;</span>
   <span id="f000067">but,</span>
   <span id="f000068">thank goodness,</span>
   <span id="f000069">none of us has to.</span>
   <span id="f000070">An habitual truth-teller is simply an impossible creature;</span>
   <span id="f000071">he does not exist;</span>
   <span id="f000072">he never has existed.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Of course there are people who think they never lie,</span>
   <span id="f000074">but it is not so – and this ignorance is one of the very things that shame our so-called civilization.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Everybody lies – every day;</span>
   <span id="f000076">every hour;</span>
   <span id="f000077">awake;</span>
   <span id="f000078">asleep;</span>
   <span id="f000079">in his dreams;</span>
   <span id="f000080">in his joy;</span>
   <span id="f000081">in his mourning;</span>
   <span id="f000082">if he keeps his tongue still,</span>
   <span id="f000083">his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000084">his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000085">his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000086">his attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000087">will convey deception – and purposely.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Even in sermons – but that is a platitude.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">In a far country where I once lived the ladies used to go around paying calls,</span>
   <span id="f000090">under the humane and kindly pretense of wanting to see each other;</span>
   <span id="f000091">and when they returned home,</span>
   <span id="f000092">they would cry out with a glad voice,</span>
   <span id="f000093">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000094">“We made sixteen calls and found fourteen of them out” – not meaning that they found out anything against the fourteen – no,</span>
   <span id="f000095">that was only a colloquial phrase to signify that they were not at home – and their manner of saying it – expressed their lively satisfaction in that fact.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000097">their pretense of wanting to see the fourteen – and the other two whom they had been less lucky with – was that commonest and mildest form of lying which is sufficiently described as a deflection from the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Is it justifiable?</span>
   <span id="f000099">Most certainly.</span>
   <span id="f000100">It is beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000101">it is noble;</span>
   <span id="f000102">for its object is,</span>
   <span id="f000103">not to reap profit,</span>
   <span id="f000104">but to convey a pleasure to the sixteen.</span>
   <span id="f000105">The iron-souled truth-monger would plainly manifest,</span>
   <span id="f000106">or even utter the fact,</span>
   <span id="f000107">that he didn’t want to see those people – and he would be an ass,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and inflict a totally unnecessary pain.</span>
   <span id="f000109">And next,</span>
   <span id="f000110">those ladies in that far country – but never mind,</span>
   <span id="f000111">they had a thousand pleasant ways of lying,</span>
   <span id="f000112">that grew out of gentle impulses,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and were a credit to their intelligence and an honor to their hearts.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Let the particulars go.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">The men in that far country were liars;</span>
   <span id="f000116">every one.</span>
   <span id="f000117">Their mere howdy-do was a lie,</span>
   <span id="f000118">because they didn’t care how you did,</span>
   <span id="f000119">except they were undertakers.</span>
   <span id="f000120">To the ordinary inquirer you lied in return;</span>
   <span id="f000121">for you made no conscientious diagnosis of your case,</span>
   <span id="f000122">but answered at random,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and usually missed it considerably.</span>
   <span id="f000124">You lied to the undertaker,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and said your health was failing – a wholly commendable lie,</span>
   <span id="f000126">since it cost you nothing and pleased the other man.</span>
   <span id="f000127">If a stranger called and interrupted you,</span>
   <span id="f000128">you said with your hearty tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000129">“I’m glad to see you,” and said with your heartier soul,</span>
   <span id="f000130">“I wish you were with the cannibals and it was dinner-time.” When he went,</span>
   <span id="f000131">you said regretfully,</span>
   <span id="f000132">“Must you go?” and followed it with a “Call again”;</span>
   <span id="f000133">but you did no harm,</span>
   <span id="f000134">for you did not deceive anybody nor inflict any hurt,</span>
   <span id="f000135">whereas the truth would have made you both unhappy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">I think that all this courteous lying is a sweet and loving art,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and should be cultivated.</span>
   <span id="f000138">The highest perfection of politeness is only a beautiful edifice,</span>
   <span id="f000139">built,</span>
   <span id="f000140">from the base to the dome,</span>
   <span id="f000141">of graceful and gilded forms of charitable and unselfish lying.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">What I bemoan is the growing prevalence of the brutal truth.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Let us do what we can to eradicate it.</span>
   <span id="f000144">An injurious truth has no merit over an injurious lie.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Neither should ever be uttered.</span>
   <span id="f000146">The man who speaks an injurious truth,</span>
   <span id="f000147">lest his soul be not saved if he do otherwise,</span>
   <span id="f000148">should reflect that that sort of a soul is not strictly worth saving.</span>
   <span id="f000149">The man who tells a lie to help a poor devil out of trouble is one of whom the angels doubtless say,</span>
   <span id="f000150">“Lo,</span>
   <span id="f000151">here is an heroic soul who casts his own welfare into jeopardy to succor his neighbor’s;</span>
   <span id="f000152">let us exalt this magnanimous liar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">An injurious lie is an uncommendable thing;</span>
   <span id="f000154">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000155">also,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and in the same degree,</span>
   <span id="f000157">is an injurious truth – a fact which is recognized by the law of libel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">Among other common lies,</span>
   <span id="f000159">we have the silent lie – the deception which one conveys by simply keeping still and concealing the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Many obstinate truth-mongers indulge in this dissipation,</span>
   <span id="f000161">imagining that if they speak no lie,</span>
   <span id="f000162">they lie not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000163">In that far country where I once lived,</span>
   <span id="f000164">there was a lovely spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000165">a lady whose impulses were always high and pure,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and whose character answered to them.</span>
   <span id="f000167">One day I was there at dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000169">in a general way,</span>
   <span id="f000170">that we are all liars.</span>
   <span id="f000171">She was amazed,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000173">“Not all!” It was before “Pinafore’s” time so I did not make the response which would naturally follow in our day,</span>
   <span id="f000174">but frankly said,</span>
   <span id="f000175">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000176">all – we are all liars;</span>
   <span id="f000177">there are no exceptions.” She looked almost offended,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000179">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000180">do you include me?” “Certainly,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000181">“I think you even rank as an expert.” She said,</span>
   <span id="f000182">“’Sh!</span>
   <span id="f000183">– ’sh!</span>
   <span id="f000184">the children!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">So the subject was changed in deference to the children’s presence,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and we went on talking about other things.</span>
   <span id="f000187">But as soon as the young people were out of the way,</span>
   <span id="f000188">the lady came warmly back to the matter and said,</span>
   <span id="f000189">“I have made it the rule of my life to never tell a lie;</span>
   <span id="f000190">and I have never departed from it in a single instance.” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000191">“I don’t mean the least harm or disrespect,</span>
   <span id="f000192">but really you have been lying like smoke ever since I’ve been sitting here.</span>
   <span id="f000193">It has caused me a good deal of pain,</span>
   <span id="f000194">because I am not used to it.” She required of me an instance – just a single instance.</span>
   <span id="f000195">So I said:</span>
   <span id="f000196">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000198">here is the unfilled duplicate of the blank which the Oakland hospital people sent to you by the hand of the sick-nurse when she came here to nurse your little nephew through his dangerous illness.</span>
   <span id="f000199">This blank asks all manner of questions as to the conduct of that sick-nurse:</span>
   <span id="f000200">’Did she ever sleep on her watch?</span>
   <span id="f000201">Did she ever forget to give the medicine?’ and so forth and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000202">You are warned to be very careful and explicit in your answers,</span>
   <span id="f000203">for the welfare of the service requires that the nurses be promptly fined or otherwise punished for derelictions.</span>
   <span id="f000204">You told me you were perfectly delighted with that nurse – that she had a thousand perfections and only one fault:</span>
   <span id="f000205">you found you never could depend on her wrapping Johnny up half sufficiently while he waited in a chilly chair for her to rearrange the warm bed.</span>
   <span id="f000206">You filled up the duplicate of this paper,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and sent it back to the hospital by the hand of the nurse.</span>
   <span id="f000208">How did you answer this question – ’Was the nurse at any time guilty of a negligence which was likely to result in the patient’s taking cold?’ Come – everything is decided by a bet here in California:</span>
   <span id="f000209">ten dollars to ten cents you lied when you answered that question.” She said,</span>
   <span id="f000210">“I didn’t;</span>
   <span id="f000211">I left it blank!” “Just so – you have told a silent lie;</span>
   <span id="f000212">you have left it to be inferred that you had no fault to find in that matter.” She said,</span>
   <span id="f000213">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000214">was that a lie?</span>
   <span id="f000215">And how could I mention her one single fault,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and she so good?</span>
   <span id="f000217">– it would have been cruel.” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000218">“One ought always to lie when one can do good by it;</span>
   <span id="f000219">your impulse was right,</span>
   <span id="f000220">but,</span>
   <span id="f000221">your judgment was crude;</span>
   <span id="f000222">this comes of unintelligent practice.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Now observe the result of this inexpert deflection of yours.</span>
   <span id="f000224">You know Mr.&#160;Jones’s Willie is lying very low with scarlet fever;</span>
   <span id="f000225">well,</span>
   <span id="f000226">your recommendation was so enthusiastic that that girl is there nursing him,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and the worn-out family have all been trustingly sound asleep for the last fourteen hours,</span>
   <span id="f000228">leaving their darling with full confidence in those fatal hands,</span>
   <span id="f000229">because you,</span>
   <span id="f000230">like young George Washington,</span>
   <span id="f000231">have a reputa – However,</span>
   <span id="f000232">if you are not going to have anything to do,</span>
   <span id="f000233">I will come around to-morrow and we’ll attend the funeral together,</span>
   <span id="f000234">for,</span>
   <span id="f000235">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000236">you’ll naturally feel a peculiar interest in Willie’s case – as personal a one,</span>
   <span id="f000237">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000238">as the undertaker.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">But that was all lost.</span>
   <span id="f000240">Before I was half-way through she was in a carriage and making thirty miles an hour toward the Jones mansion to save what was left of Willie and tell all she knew about the deadly nurse.</span>
   <span id="f000241">All of which was unnecessary,</span>
   <span id="f000242">as Willie wasn’t sick;</span>
   <span id="f000243">I had been lying myself.</span>
   <span id="f000244">But that same day,</span>
   <span id="f000245">all the same,</span>
   <span id="f000246">she sent a line to the hospital which filled up the neglected blank,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and stated the facts,</span>
   <span id="f000248">too,</span>
   <span id="f000249">in the squarest possible manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000251">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000252">this lady’s fault was not in lying,</span>
   <span id="f000253">but only in lying injudiciously.</span>
   <span id="f000254">She should have told the truth there,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and made it up to the nurse with a fraudulent compliment further along in the paper.</span>
   <span id="f000256">She could have said,</span>
   <span id="f000257">“In one respect the sick-nurse is perfection – when she is on watch,</span>
   <span id="f000258">she never snores.” Almost any little pleasant lie would have taken the sting out of that troublesome but necessary expression of the truth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">Lying is universal – we all do it;</span>
   <span id="f000260">we all must do it.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000262">the wise thing is for us diligently to train ourselves to lie thoughtfully,</span>
   <span id="f000263">judiciously;</span>
   <span id="f000264">to lie with a good object,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and not an evil one;</span>
   <span id="f000266">to lie for others’ advantage,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and not our own;</span>
   <span id="f000268">to lie healingly,</span>
   <span id="f000269">charitably,</span>
   <span id="f000270">humanely,</span>
   <span id="f000271">not cruelly,</span>
   <span id="f000272">hurtfully,</span>
   <span id="f000273">maliciously;</span>
   <span id="f000274">to lie gracefully and graciously,</span>
   <span id="f000275">not awkwardly and clumsily;</span>
   <span id="f000276">to lie firmly,</span>
   <span id="f000277">frankly,</span>
   <span id="f000278">squarely,</span>
   <span id="f000279">with head erect,</span>
   <span id="f000280">not haltingly,</span>
   <span id="f000281">tortuously,</span>
   <span id="f000282">with pusillanimous mien,</span>
   <span id="f000283">as being ashamed of our high calling.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Then shall we be rid of the rank and pestilent truth that is rotting the land;</span>
   <span id="f000285">then shall we be great and good and beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and worthy dwellers in a world where even benign Nature habitually lies,</span>
   <span id="f000287">except when she promises execrable weather.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Then – but I am but a new and feeble student in this gracious art;</span>
   <span id="f000289">I can not instruct this Club.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">Joking aside,</span>
   <span id="f000291">I think there is much need of wise examination into what sorts of lies are best and wholesomest to be indulged,</span>
   <span id="f000292">seeing we must all lie and do all lie,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and what sorts it may be best to avoid – and this is a thing which I feel I can confidently put into the hands of this experienced Club – a ripe body,</span>
   <span id="f000294">who may be termed,</span>
   <span id="f000295">in this regard,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and without undue flattery,</span>
   <span id="f000297">Old Masters.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

