<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">About Magnanimous-Incident Literature</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">All my life,</span>
   <span id="f000003">from boyhood up,</span>
   <span id="f000004">I have had the habit of reading a certain set of anecdotes,</span>
   <span id="f000005">written in the quaint vein of The World’s ingenious Fabulist,</span>
   <span id="f000006">for the lesson they taught me and the pleasure they gave me.</span>
   <span id="f000007">They lay always convenient to my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and whenever I thought meanly of my kind I turned to them,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and they banished that sentiment;</span>
   <span id="f000010">whenever I felt myself to be selfish,</span>
   <span id="f000011">sordid,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and ignoble I turned to them,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and they told me what to do to win back my self-respect.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Many times I wished that the charming anecdotes had not stopped with their happy climaxes,</span>
   <span id="f000015">but had continued the pleasing history of the several benefactors and beneficiaries.</span>
   <span id="f000016">This wish rose in my breast so persistently that at last I determined to satisfy it by seeking out the sequels of those anecdotes myself.</span>
   <span id="f000017">So I set about it,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and after great labor and tedious research accomplished my task.</span>
   <span id="f000019">I will lay the result before you,</span>
   <span id="f000020">giving you each anecdote in its turn,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and following it with its sequel as I gathered it through my investigations.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000022">THE GRATEFUL POODLE</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000023">One day a benevolent physician</span>
   <span id="f000024">(who had read the books)</span>
   <span id="f000025">having found a stray poodle suffering from a broken leg,</span>
   <span id="f000026">conveyed the poor creature to his home,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and after setting and bandaging the injured limb gave the little outcast its liberty again,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and thought no more about the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000029">But how great was his surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000030">upon opening his door one morning,</span>
   <span id="f000031">some days later,</span>
   <span id="f000032">to find the grateful poodle patiently waiting there,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and in its company another stray dog,</span>
   <span id="f000034">one of whose legs,</span>
   <span id="f000035">by some accident,</span>
   <span id="f000036">had been broken.</span>
   <span id="f000037">The kind physician at once relieved the distressed animal,</span>
   <span id="f000038">nor did he forget to admire the inscrutable goodness and mercy of God,</span>
   <span id="f000039">who had been willing to use so humble an instrument as the poor outcast poodle for the inculcating of,</span>
   <span id="f000040">etc.,</span>
   <span id="f000041">etc.,</span>
   <span id="f000042">etc.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000043">SEQUEL</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000044">The next morning the benevolent physician found the two dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000045">beaming with gratitude,</span>
   <span id="f000046">waiting at his door,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and with them two other dogs-cripples.</span>
   <span id="f000048">The cripples were speedily healed,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and the four went their way,</span>
   <span id="f000050">leaving the benevolent physician more overcome by pious wonder than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000051">The day passed,</span>
   <span id="f000052">the morning came.</span>
   <span id="f000053">There at the door sat now the four reconstructed dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and with them four others requiring reconstruction.</span>
   <span id="f000055">This day also passed,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and another morning came;</span>
   <span id="f000057">and now sixteen dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000058">eight of them newly crippled,</span>
   <span id="f000059">occupied the sidewalk,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and the people were going around.</span>
   <span id="f000061">By noon the broken legs were all set,</span>
   <span id="f000062">but the pious wonder in the good physician’s breast was beginning to get mixed with involuntary profanity.</span>
   <span id="f000063">The sun rose once more,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and exhibited thirty-two dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000065">sixteen of them with broken legs,</span>
   <span id="f000066">occupying the sidewalk and half of the street;</span>
   <span id="f000067">the human spectators took up the rest of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000068">The cries of the wounded,</span>
   <span id="f000069">the songs of the healed brutes,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and the comments of the onlooking citizens made great and inspiring cheer,</span>
   <span id="f000071">but traffic was interrupted in that street.</span>
   <span id="f000072">The good physician hired a couple of assistant surgeons and got through his benevolent work before dark,</span>
   <span id="f000073">first taking the precaution to cancel his church membership,</span>
   <span id="f000074">so that he might express himself with the latitude which the case required.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">But some things have their limits.</span>
   <span id="f000076">When once more the morning dawned,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and the good physician looked out upon a massed and far-reaching multitude of clamorous and beseeching dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000078">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000079">“I might as well acknowledge it,</span>
   <span id="f000080">I have been fooled by the books;</span>
   <span id="f000081">they only tell the pretty part of the story,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and then stop.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Fetch me the shotgun;</span>
   <span id="f000084">this thing has gone along far enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">He issued forth with his weapon,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and chanced to step upon the tail of the original poodle,</span>
   <span id="f000087">who promptly bit him in the leg.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Now the great and good work which this poodle had been engaged in had engendered in him such a mighty and augmenting enthusiasm as to turn his weak head at last and drive him mad.</span>
   <span id="f000089">A month later,</span>
   <span id="f000090">when the benevolent physician lay in the death-throes of hydrophobia,</span>
   <span id="f000091">he called his weeping friends about him,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000093">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“Beware of the books.</span>
   <span id="f000095">They tell but half of the story.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Whenever a poor wretch asks you for help,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and you feel a doubt as to what result may flow from your benevolence,</span>
   <span id="f000098">give yourself the benefit of the doubt and kill the applicant.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">And so saying he turned his face to the wall and gave up the ghost.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000100">THE BENEVOLENT AUTHOR</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000101">A poor and young literary beginner had tried in vain to get his manuscripts accepted.</span>
   <span id="f000102">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000103">when the horrors of starvation were staring him in the face,</span>
   <span id="f000104">he laid his sad case before a celebrated author,</span>
   <span id="f000105">beseeching his counsel and assistance.</span>
   <span id="f000106">This generous man immediately put aside his own matters and proceeded to peruse one of the despised manuscripts.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Having completed his kindly task,</span>
   <span id="f000108">he shook the poor young man cordially by the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000109">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000110">“I perceive merit in this;</span>
   <span id="f000111">come again to me on Monday.” At the time specified,</span>
   <span id="f000112">the celebrated author,</span>
   <span id="f000113">with a sweet smile,</span>
   <span id="f000114">but saying nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000115">spread open a magazine which was damp from the press.</span>
   <span id="f000116">What was the poor young man’s astonishment to discover upon the printed page his own article.</span>
   <span id="f000117">“How can I ever,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000118">falling upon his knees and bursting into tears,</span>
   <span id="f000119">“testify my gratitude for this noble conduct!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">The celebrated author was the renowned Snodgrass;</span>
   <span id="f000121">the poor young beginner thus rescued from obscurity and starvation was the afterward equally renowned Snagsby.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Let this pleasing incident admonish us to turn a charitable ear to all beginners that need help.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000123">SEQUEL</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000124">The next week Snagsby was back with five rejected manuscripts.</span>
   <span id="f000125">The celebrated author was a little surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000126">because in the books the young struggler had needed but one lift,</span>
   <span id="f000127">apparently.</span>
   <span id="f000128">However,</span>
   <span id="f000129">he plowed through these papers,</span>
   <span id="f000130">removing unnecessary flowers and digging up some acres of adjective-stumps,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and then succeeded in getting two of the articles accepted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">A week or so drifted by,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and the grateful Snagsby arrived with another cargo.</span>
   <span id="f000134">The celebrated author had felt a mighty glow of satisfaction within himself the first time he had successfully befriended the poor young struggler,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and had compared himself with the generous people in the books with high gratification;</span>
   <span id="f000136">but he was beginning to suspect now that he had struck upon something fresh in the noble-episode line.</span>
   <span id="f000137">His enthusiasm took a chill.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000139">he could not bear to repulse this struggling young author,</span>
   <span id="f000140">who clung to him with such pretty simplicity and trustfulness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000142">the upshot of it all was that the celebrated author presently found himself permanently freighted with the poor young beginner.</span>
   <span id="f000143">All his mild efforts to unload this cargo went for nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000144">He had to give daily counsel,</span>
   <span id="f000145">daily encouragement;</span>
   <span id="f000146">he had to keep on procuring magazine acceptances,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and then revamping the manuscripts to make them presentable.</span>
   <span id="f000148">When the young aspirant got a start at last,</span>
   <span id="f000149">he rode into sudden fame by describing the celebrated author’s private life with such a caustic humor and such minuteness of blistering detail that the book sold a prodigious edition,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and broke the celebrated author’s heart with mortification.</span>
   <span id="f000151">With his latest gasp he said,</span>
   <span id="f000152">“Alas,</span>
   <span id="f000153">the books deceived me;</span>
   <span id="f000154">they do not tell the whole story.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Beware of the struggling young author,</span>
   <span id="f000156">my friends.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Whom God sees fit to starve,</span>
   <span id="f000158">let not man presumptuously rescue to his own undoing.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000159">THE GRATEFUL HUSBAND</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000160">One day a lady was driving through the principal street of a great city with her little boy,</span>
   <span id="f000161">when the horses took fright and dashed madly away,</span>
   <span id="f000162">hurling the coachman from his box and leaving the occupants of the carnage paralyzed with terror.</span>
   <span id="f000163">But a brave youth who was driving a grocery-wagon threw himself before the plunging animals,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and succeeded in arresting their flight at the peril of his own.</span>
   <span id="f000165">– [This is probably a misprint.</span>
   <span id="f000166">– M.</span>
   <span id="f000167">T.] – The grateful lady took his number,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and upon arriving at her home she related the heroic act to her husband</span>
   <span id="f000169">(who had read the books),</span>
   <span id="f000170">who listened with streaming eyes to the moving recital,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and who,</span>
   <span id="f000172">after returning thanks,</span>
   <span id="f000173">in conjunction with his restored loved ones,</span>
   <span id="f000174">to Him who suffereth not even a sparrow to fall to the ground unnoticed,</span>
   <span id="f000175">sent for the brave young person,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and,</span>
   <span id="f000177">placing a check for five hundred dollars in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000178">said,</span>
   <span id="f000179">“Take this as a reward for your noble act,</span>
   <span id="f000180">William Ferguson,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and if ever you shall need a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000182">remember that Thompson McSpadden has a grateful heart.” Let us learn from this that a good deed cannot fail to benefit the doer,</span>
   <span id="f000183">however humble he may be.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000184">SEQUEL</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000185">William Ferguson called the next week and asked Mr.&#160;McSpadden to use his influence to get him a higher employment,</span>
   <span id="f000186">he feeling capable of better things than driving a grocer’s wagon.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Mr.&#160;McSpadden got him an under-clerkship at a good salary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">Presently William Ferguson’s mother fell sick,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and William – Well,</span>
   <span id="f000190">to cut the story short,</span>
   <span id="f000191">Mr.&#160;McSpadden consented to take her into his house.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Before long she yearned for the society of her younger children;</span>
   <span id="f000193">so Mary and Julia were admitted also,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and little Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000195">their brother.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Jimmy had a pocket knife,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and he wandered into the drawing-room with it one day,</span>
   <span id="f000198">alone,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and reduced ten thousand dollars’ worth of furniture to an indeterminable value in rather less than three-quarters of an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000200">A day or two later he fell down-stairs and broke his neck,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and seventeen of his family’s relatives came to the house to attend the funeral.</span>
   <span id="f000202">This made them acquainted,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and they kept the kitchen occupied after that,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and likewise kept the McSpaddens busy hunting up situations of various sorts for them,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and hunting up more when they wore these out.</span>
   <span id="f000206">The old woman drank a good deal and swore a good deal;</span>
   <span id="f000207">but the grateful McSpaddens knew it was their duty to reform her,</span>
   <span id="f000208">considering what her son had done for them,</span>
   <span id="f000209">so they clave nobly to their generous task.</span>
   <span id="f000210">William came often and got decreasing sums of money,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and asked for higher and more lucrative employments – which the grateful McSpadden more or less promptly procured for him.</span>
   <span id="f000212">McSpadden consented also,</span>
   <span id="f000213">after some demur,</span>
   <span id="f000214">to fit William for college;</span>
   <span id="f000215">but when the first vacation came and the hero requested to be sent to Europe for his health,</span>
   <span id="f000216">the persecuted McSpadden rose against the tyrant and revolted.</span>
   <span id="f000217">He plainly and squarely refused.</span>
   <span id="f000218">William Ferguson’s mother was so astounded that she let her gin-bottle drop,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and her profane lips refused to do their office.</span>
   <span id="f000220">When she recovered she said in a half-gasp,</span>
   <span id="f000221">“Is this your gratitude?</span>
   <span id="f000222">Where would your wife and boy be now,</span>
   <span id="f000223">but for my son?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">William said,</span>
   <span id="f000225">“Is this your gratitude?</span>
   <span id="f000226">Did I save your wife’s life or not?</span>
   <span id="f000227">Tell me that!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">Seven relations swarmed in from the kitchen and each said,</span>
   <span id="f000229">“And this is his gratitude!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">William’s sisters stared,</span>
   <span id="f000231">bewildered,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000233">“And this is his grat – ” but were interrupted by their mother,</span>
   <span id="f000234">who burst into tears and exclaimed,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“To think that my sainted little Jimmy threw away his life in the service of such a reptile!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">Then the pluck of the revolutionary McSpadden rose to the occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and he replied with fervor,</span>
   <span id="f000238">“Out of my house,</span>
   <span id="f000239">the whole beggarly tribe of you!</span>
   <span id="f000240">I was beguiled by the books,</span>
   <span id="f000241">but shall never be beguiled again – once is sufficient for me.” And turning to William he shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000242">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000243">you did save my wife’s life,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and the next man that does it shall die in his tracks!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">Not being a clergyman,</span>
   <span id="f000246">I place my text at the end of my sermon instead of at the beginning.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Here it is,</span>
   <span id="f000248">from Mr.&#160;Noah Brooks’s Recollections of President Lincoln in “Scribners Monthly”:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000249">J.</span>
   <span id="f000250">H.</span>
   <span id="f000251">Hackett,</span>
   <span id="f000252">in his part of Falstaff,</span>
   <span id="f000253">was an actor who gave Mr.&#160;Lincoln great delight.</span>
   <span id="f000254">With his usual desire to signify to others his sense of obligation,</span>
   <span id="f000255">Mr.&#160;Lincoln wrote a genial little note to the actor expressing his pleasure at witnessing his performance.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Mr.&#160;Hackett,</span>
   <span id="f000257">in reply,</span>
   <span id="f000258">sent a book of some sort;</span>
   <span id="f000259">perhaps it was one of his own authorship.</span>
   <span id="f000260">He also wrote several notes to the President.</span>
   <span id="f000261">One night,</span>
   <span id="f000262">quite late,</span>
   <span id="f000263">when the episode had passed out of my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000264">I went to the White House in answer to a message.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Passing into the President’s office,</span>
   <span id="f000266">I noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000267">to my surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000268">Hackett sitting in the anteroom as if waiting for an audience.</span>
   <span id="f000269">The President asked me if any one was outside.</span>
   <span id="f000270">On being told,</span>
   <span id="f000271">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000272">half sadly,</span>
   <span id="f000273">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000274">I can’t see him,</span>
   <span id="f000275">I can’t see him;</span>
   <span id="f000276">I was in hopes he had gone away.” Then he added,</span>
   <span id="f000277">“Now this just illustrates the difficulty of having pleasant friends and acquaintances in this place.</span>
   <span id="f000278">You know how I liked Hackett as an actor,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and how I wrote to tell him so.</span>
   <span id="f000280">He sent me that book,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and there I thought the matter would end.</span>
   <span id="f000282">He is a master of his place in the profession,</span>
   <span id="f000283">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and well fixed in it;</span>
   <span id="f000285">but just because we had a little friendly correspondence,</span>
   <span id="f000286">such as any two men might have,</span>
   <span id="f000287">he wants something.</span>
   <span id="f000288">What do you suppose he wants?” I could not guess,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and Mr.&#160;Lincoln added,</span>
   <span id="f000290">“well,</span>
   <span id="f000291">he wants to be consul to London.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000293">dear!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000294">I will observe,</span>
   <span id="f000295">in conclusion,</span>
   <span id="f000296">that the William Ferguson incident occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and within my personal knowledge – though I have changed the nature of the details,</span>
   <span id="f000298">to keep William from recognizing himself in it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">All the readers of this article have in some sweet and gushing hour of their lives played the role of Magnanimous-Incident hero.</span>
   <span id="f000300">I wish I knew how many there are among them who are willing to talk about that episode and like to be reminded of the consequences that flowed from it.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

