<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Punch, Brothers, Punch</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Will the reader please to cast his eye over the following lines,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and see if he can discover anything harmful in them?</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000004">Conductor,</span>
   <span id="f000005">when you receive a fare,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006">Punch in the presence of the passenjare!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000007">A blue trip slip for an eight-cent fare,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000008">A buff trip slip for a six-cent fare,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000009">A pink trip slip for a three-cent fare,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000010">Punch in the presence of the passenjare!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">CHORUS</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">Punch,</span>
   <span id="f000013">brothers!</span>
   <span id="f000014">punch with care!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000015">Punch in the presence of the passenjare!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000016">I came across these jingling rhymes in a newspaper,</span>
   <span id="f000017">a little while ago,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and read them a couple of times.</span>
   <span id="f000019">They took instant and entire possession of me.</span>
   <span id="f000020">All through breakfast they went waltzing through my brain;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and when,</span>
   <span id="f000022">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000023">I rolled up my napkin,</span>
   <span id="f000024">I could not tell whether I had eaten anything or not.</span>
   <span id="f000025">I had carefully laid out my day’s work the day before – thrilling tragedy in the novel which I am writing.</span>
   <span id="f000026">I went to my den to begin my deed of blood.</span>
   <span id="f000027">I took up my pen,</span>
   <span id="f000028">but all I could get it to say was,</span>
   <span id="f000029">“Punch in the presence of the passenjare.” I fought hard for an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000030">but it was useless.</span>
   <span id="f000031">My head kept humming,</span>
   <span id="f000032">“A blue trip slip for an eight-cent fare,</span>
   <span id="f000033">a buff trip slip for a six-cent fare,” and so on and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000034">without peace or respite.</span>
   <span id="f000035">The day’s work was ruined – I could see that plainly enough.</span>
   <span id="f000036">I gave up and drifted down-town,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and presently discovered that my feet were keeping time to that relentless jingle.</span>
   <span id="f000038">When I could stand it no longer I altered my step.</span>
   <span id="f000039">But it did no good;</span>
   <span id="f000040">those rhymes accommodated themselves to the new step and went on harassing me just as before.</span>
   <span id="f000041">I returned home,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and suffered all the afternoon;</span>
   <span id="f000043">suffered all through an unconscious and unrefreshing dinner;</span>
   <span id="f000044">suffered,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and cried,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and jingled all through the evening;</span>
   <span id="f000047">went to bed and rolled,</span>
   <span id="f000048">tossed,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and jingled right along,</span>
   <span id="f000050">the same as ever;</span>
   <span id="f000051">got up at midnight frantic,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and tried to read;</span>
   <span id="f000053">but there was nothing visible upon the whirling page except “Punch!</span>
   <span id="f000054">punch in the presence of the passenjare.” By sunrise I was out of my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and everybody marveled and was distressed at the idiotic burden of my ravings – “Punch!</span>
   <span id="f000056">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000057">punch!</span>
   <span id="f000058">punch in the presence of the passenjare!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">Two days later,</span>
   <span id="f000060">on Saturday morning,</span>
   <span id="f000061">I arose,</span>
   <span id="f000062">a tottering wreck,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and went forth to fulfil an engagement with a valued friend,</span>
   <span id="f000064">the Rev.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Mr.&#160;– – ,</span>
   <span id="f000066">to walk to the Talcott Tower,</span>
   <span id="f000067">ten miles distant.</span>
   <span id="f000068">He stared at me,</span>
   <span id="f000069">but asked no questions.</span>
   <span id="f000070">We started.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Mr.&#160;– – talked,</span>
   <span id="f000072">talked,</span>
   <span id="f000073">talked as is his wont.</span>
   <span id="f000074">I said nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000075">I heard nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000076">At the end of a mile,</span>
   <span id="f000077">Mr.&#160;– – said “Mark,</span>
   <span id="f000078">are you sick?</span>
   <span id="f000079">I never saw a man look so haggard and worn and absent-minded.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Say something,</span>
   <span id="f000081">do!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">Drearily,</span>
   <span id="f000083">without enthusiasm,</span>
   <span id="f000084">I said:</span>
   <span id="f000085">“Punch brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000086">punch with care!</span>
   <span id="f000087">Punch in the presence of the passenjare!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">My friend eyed me blankly,</span>
   <span id="f000089">looked perplexed,</span>
   <span id="f000090">then said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">“I do not think I get your drift,</span>
   <span id="f000092">Mark.</span>
   <span id="f000093">There does not seem to be any relevancy in what you have said,</span>
   <span id="f000094">certainly nothing sad;</span>
   <span id="f000095">and yet – maybe it was the way you said the words – I never heard anything that sounded so pathetic.</span>
   <span id="f000096">What is – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">But I heard no more.</span>
   <span id="f000098">I was already far away with my pitiless,</span>
   <span id="f000099">heartbreaking “blue trip slip for an eight-cent fare,</span>
   <span id="f000100">buff trip slip for a six-cent fare,</span>
   <span id="f000101">pink trip slip for a three-cent fare;</span>
   <span id="f000102">punch in the presence of the passenjare.” I do not know what occurred during the other nine miles.</span>
   <span id="f000103">However,</span>
   <span id="f000104">all of a sudden Mr.&#160;– – laid his hand on my shoulder and shouted:</span>
   <span id="f000105">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000107">wake up!</span>
   <span id="f000108">wake up!</span>
   <span id="f000109">wake up!</span>
   <span id="f000110">Don’t sleep all day!</span>
   <span id="f000111">Here we are at the Tower,</span>
   <span id="f000112">man!</span>
   <span id="f000113">I have talked myself deaf and dumb and blind,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and never got a response.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Just look at this magnificent autumn landscape!</span>
   <span id="f000116">Look at it!</span>
   <span id="f000117">look at it!</span>
   <span id="f000118">Feast your eye on it!</span>
   <span id="f000119">You have traveled;</span>
   <span id="f000120">you have seen boasted landscapes elsewhere.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000122">now,</span>
   <span id="f000123">deliver an honest opinion.</span>
   <span id="f000124">What do you say to this?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">I sighed wearily;</span>
   <span id="f000126">and murmured:</span>
   <span id="f000127">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“A buff trip slip for a six-cent fare,</span>
   <span id="f000129">a pink trip slip for a three-cent fare,</span>
   <span id="f000130">punch in the presence of the passenjare.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">Rev.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Mr.&#160;– – stood there,</span>
   <span id="f000133">very grave,</span>
   <span id="f000134">full of concern,</span>
   <span id="f000135">apparently,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and looked long at me;</span>
   <span id="f000137">then he said:</span>
   <span id="f000138">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“Mark,</span>
   <span id="f000140">there is something about this that I cannot understand.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Those are about the same words you said before;</span>
   <span id="f000142">there does not seem to be anything in them,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and yet they nearly break my heart when you say them.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Punch in the – how is it they go?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">I began at the beginning and repeated all the lines.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">My friend’s face lighted with interest.</span>
   <span id="f000147">He said:</span>
   <span id="f000148">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000150">what a captivating jingle it is!</span>
   <span id="f000151">It is almost music.</span>
   <span id="f000152">It flows along so nicely.</span>
   <span id="f000153">I have nearly caught the rhymes myself.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Say them over just once more,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and then I’ll have them,</span>
   <span id="f000156">sure.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">I said them over.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Then Mr.&#160;– – said them.</span>
   <span id="f000159">He made one little mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000160">which I corrected.</span>
   <span id="f000161">The next time and the next he got them right.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Now a great burden seemed to tumble from my shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000163">That torturing jingle departed out of my brain,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and a grateful sense of rest and peace descended upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000165">I was light-hearted enough to sing;</span>
   <span id="f000166">and I did sing for half an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000167">straight along,</span>
   <span id="f000168">as we went jogging homeward.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Then my freed tongue found blessed speech again,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and the pent talk of many a weary hour began to gush and flow.</span>
   <span id="f000171">It flowed on and on,</span>
   <span id="f000172">joyously,</span>
   <span id="f000173">jubilantly,</span>
   <span id="f000174">until the fountain was empty and dry.</span>
   <span id="f000175">As I wrung my friend’s hand at parting,</span>
   <span id="f000176">I said:</span>
   <span id="f000177">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“Haven’t we had a royal good time!</span>
   <span id="f000179">But now I remember,</span>
   <span id="f000180">you haven’t said a word for two hours.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000182">come,</span>
   <span id="f000183">out with something!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">The Rev.</span>
   <span id="f000185">Mr.&#160;– – turned a lack-lustre eye upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000186">drew a deep sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000188">without animation,</span>
   <span id="f000189">without apparent consciousness:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“Punch,</span>
   <span id="f000191">brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000192">punch with care!</span>
   <span id="f000193">Punch in the presence of the passenjare!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">A pang shot through me as I said to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000195">“Poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000196">poor fellow!</span>
   <span id="f000197">he has got it,</span>
   <span id="f000198">now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">I did not see Mr.&#160;– – for two or three days after that.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000201">on Tuesday evening,</span>
   <span id="f000202">he staggered into my presence and sank dejectedly into a seat.</span>
   <span id="f000203">He was pale,</span>
   <span id="f000204">worn;</span>
   <span id="f000205">he was a wreck.</span>
   <span id="f000206">He lifted his faded eyes to my face and said:</span>
   <span id="f000207">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000209">Mark,</span>
   <span id="f000210">it was a ruinous investment that I made in those heartless rhymes.</span>
   <span id="f000211">They have ridden me like a nightmare,</span>
   <span id="f000212">day and night,</span>
   <span id="f000213">hour after hour,</span>
   <span id="f000214">to this very moment.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Since I saw you I have suffered the torments of the lost.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Saturday evening I had a sudden call,</span>
   <span id="f000217">by telegraph,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and took the night train for Boston.</span>
   <span id="f000219">The occasion was the death of a valued old friend who had requested that I should preach his funeral sermon.</span>
   <span id="f000220">I took my seat in the cars and set myself to framing the discourse.</span>
   <span id="f000221">But I never got beyond the opening paragraph;</span>
   <span id="f000222">for then the train started and the car-wheels began their ’clack,</span>
   <span id="f000223">clack-clack-clack-clack!</span>
   <span id="f000224">clack-clack!</span>
   <span id="f000225">– clack-clack-clack!’ and right away those odious rhymes fitted themselves to that accompaniment.</span>
   <span id="f000226">For an hour I sat there and set a syllable of those rhymes to every separate and distinct clack the car-wheels made.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000228">I was as fagged out,</span>
   <span id="f000229">then,</span>
   <span id="f000230">as if I had been chopping wood all day.</span>
   <span id="f000231">My skull was splitting with headache.</span>
   <span id="f000232">It seemed to me that I must go mad if I sat there any longer;</span>
   <span id="f000233">so I undressed and went to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000234">I stretched myself out in my berth,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and – well,</span>
   <span id="f000236">you know what the result was.</span>
   <span id="f000237">The thing went right along,</span>
   <span id="f000238">just the same.</span>
   <span id="f000239">’Clack-clack clack,</span>
   <span id="f000240">a blue trip slip,</span>
   <span id="f000241">clack-clack-clack,</span>
   <span id="f000242">for an eight-cent fare;</span>
   <span id="f000243">clack-clack-clack,</span>
   <span id="f000244">a buff trip slip,</span>
   <span id="f000245">clack clack-clack,</span>
   <span id="f000246">for a six-cent fare,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and so on punch in the presence of the passenjare!’ Sleep?</span>
   <span id="f000250">Not a single wink!</span>
   <span id="f000251">I was almost a lunatic when I got to Boston.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Don’t ask me about the funeral.</span>
   <span id="f000253">I did the best I could,</span>
   <span id="f000254">but every solemn individual sentence was meshed and tangled and woven in and out with ’Punch,</span>
   <span id="f000255">brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000256">punch with care,</span>
   <span id="f000257">punch in the presence of the passenjare.’ And the most distressing thing was that my delivery dropped into the undulating rhythm of those pulsing rhymes,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and I could actually catch absent-minded people nodding time to the swing of it with their stupid heads.</span>
   <span id="f000259">And,</span>
   <span id="f000260">Mark,</span>
   <span id="f000261">you may believe it or not,</span>
   <span id="f000262">but before I got through the entire assemblage were placidly bobbing their heads in solemn unison,</span>
   <span id="f000263">mourners,</span>
   <span id="f000264">undertaker,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and all.</span>
   <span id="f000266">The moment I had finished,</span>
   <span id="f000267">I fled to the anteroom in a state bordering on frenzy.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Of course it would be my luck to find a sorrowing and aged maiden aunt of the deceased there,</span>
   <span id="f000269">who had arrived from Springfield too late to get into the church.</span>
   <span id="f000270">She began to sob,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000272">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000274">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000275">he is gone,</span>
   <span id="f000276">he is gone,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and I didn’t see him before he died!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">’Yes!’ I said,</span>
   <span id="f000279">’he is gone,</span>
   <span id="f000280">he is gone,</span>
   <span id="f000281">he is gone – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000282">will this suffering never cease!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">’You loved him,</span>
   <span id="f000284">then!</span>
   <span id="f000285">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000286">you too loved him!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">’Loved him!</span>
   <span id="f000288">Loved who?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f000290">my poor George!</span>
   <span id="f000291">my poor nephew!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">’Oh – him!</span>
   <span id="f000293">Yes – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000294">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000295">yes.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Certainly – certainly.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Punch – punch – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000298">this misery will kill me!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">’Bless you!</span>
   <span id="f000300">bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000301">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000302">for these sweet words!</span>
   <span id="f000303">I,</span>
   <span id="f000304">too,</span>
   <span id="f000305">suffer in this dear loss.</span>
   <span id="f000306">Were you present during his last moments?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">’Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000308">I – whose last moments?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">’His.</span>
   <span id="f000310">The dear departed’s.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">’Yes!</span>
   <span id="f000312">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000313">yes – yes – yes!</span>
   <span id="f000314">I suppose so,</span>
   <span id="f000315">I think so,</span>
   <span id="f000316">I don’t know!</span>
   <span id="f000317">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000318">certainly – I was there – I was there!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000320">what a privilege!</span>
   <span id="f000321">what a precious privilege!</span>
   <span id="f000322">And his last words – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000323">tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000324">tell me his last words!</span>
   <span id="f000325">What did he say?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“’He said – he said – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000327">my head,</span>
   <span id="f000328">my head,</span>
   <span id="f000329">my head!</span>
   <span id="f000330">He said – he said – he never said anything but Punch,</span>
   <span id="f000331">punch,</span>
   <span id="f000332">punch in the presence of the passenjare!</span>
   <span id="f000333">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000334">leave me,</span>
   <span id="f000335">madam!</span>
   <span id="f000336">In the name of all that is generous,</span>
   <span id="f000337">leave me to my madness,</span>
   <span id="f000338">my misery,</span>
   <span id="f000339">my despair!</span>
   <span id="f000340">– a buff trip slip for a six-cent fare,</span>
   <span id="f000341">a pink trip slip for a three-cent fare – endu – rance can no fur – ther go!</span>
   <span id="f000342">– PUNCH in the presence of the passenjare!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">My friend’s hopeless eyes rested upon mine a pregnant minute,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and then he said impressively:</span>
   <span id="f000345">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">“Mark,</span>
   <span id="f000347">you do not say anything.</span>
   <span id="f000348">You do not offer me any hope.</span>
   <span id="f000349">But,</span>
   <span id="f000350">ah me,</span>
   <span id="f000351">it is just as well – it is just as well.</span>
   <span id="f000352">You could not do me any good.</span>
   <span id="f000353">The time has long gone by when words could comfort me.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Something tells me that my tongue is doomed to wag forever to the jigger of that remorseless jingle.</span>
   <span id="f000355">There – there it is coming on me again:</span>
   <span id="f000356">a blue trip slip for an eight-cent fare,</span>
   <span id="f000357">a buff trip slip for a – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">Thus murmuring faint and fainter,</span>
   <span id="f000359">my friend sank into a peaceful trance and forgot his sufferings in a blessed respite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">How did I finally save him from an asylum?</span>
   <span id="f000361">I took him to a neighboring university and made him discharge the burden of his persecuting rhymes into the eager ears of the poor,</span>
   <span id="f000362">unthinking students.</span>
   <span id="f000363">How is it with them,</span>
   <span id="f000364">now?</span>
   <span id="f000365">The result is too sad to tell.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Why did I write this article?</span>
   <span id="f000367">It was for a worthy,</span>
   <span id="f000368">even a noble,</span>
   <span id="f000369">purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000370">It was to warn you,</span>
   <span id="f000371">reader,</span>
   <span id="f000372">if you should came across those merciless rhymes,</span>
   <span id="f000373">to avoid them – avoid them as you would a pestilence!</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

