<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Great Revolution in Pitcairn</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Let me refresh the reader’s memory a little.</span>
   <span id="f000003">Nearly a hundred years ago the crew of the British ship Bounty mutinied,</span>
   <span id="f000004">set the captain and his officers adrift upon the open sea,</span>
   <span id="f000005">took possession of the ship,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and sailed southward.</span>
   <span id="f000007">They procured wives for themselves among the natives of Tahiti,</span>
   <span id="f000008">then proceeded to a lonely little rock in mid-Pacific,</span>
   <span id="f000009">called Pitcairn’s Island,</span>
   <span id="f000010">wrecked the vessel,</span>
   <span id="f000011">stripped her of everything that might be useful to a new colony,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and established themselves on shore.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Pitcairn’s is so far removed from the track of commerce that it was many years before another vessel touched there.</span>
   <span id="f000014">It had always been considered an uninhabited island;</span>
   <span id="f000015">so when a ship did at last drop its anchor there,</span>
   <span id="f000016">in 1808,</span>
   <span id="f000017">the captain was greatly surprised to find the place peopled.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Although the mutineers had fought among themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and gradually killed each other off until only two or three of the original stock remained,</span>
   <span id="f000020">these tragedies had not occurred before a number of children had been born;</span>
   <span id="f000021">so in 1808 the island had a population of twenty-seven persons.</span>
   <span id="f000022">John Adams,</span>
   <span id="f000023">the chief mutineer,</span>
   <span id="f000024">still survived,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and was to live many years yet,</span>
   <span id="f000026">as governor and patriarch of the flock.</span>
   <span id="f000027">From being mutineer and homicide,</span>
   <span id="f000028">he had turned Christian and teacher,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and his nation of twenty-seven persons was now the purest and devoutest in Christendom.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Adams had long ago hoisted the British flag and constituted his island an appanage of the British crown.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">To-day the population numbers ninety persons – sixteen men,</span>
   <span id="f000032">nineteen women,</span>
   <span id="f000033">twenty-five boys,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and thirty girls – all descendants of the mutineers,</span>
   <span id="f000035">all bearing the family names of those mutineers,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and all speaking English,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and English only.</span>
   <span id="f000038">The island stands high up out of the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and has precipitous walls.</span>
   <span id="f000040">It is about three-quarters of a mile long,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and in places is as much as half a mile wide.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Such arable land as it affords is held by the several families,</span>
   <span id="f000043">according to a division made many years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000044">There is some live stock – goats,</span>
   <span id="f000045">pigs,</span>
   <span id="f000046">chickens,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and cats;</span>
   <span id="f000048">but no dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and no large animals.</span>
   <span id="f000050">There is one church building used also as a capitol,</span>
   <span id="f000051">a schoolhouse,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and a public library.</span>
   <span id="f000053">The title of the governor has been,</span>
   <span id="f000054">for a generation or two,</span>
   <span id="f000055">“Magistrate and Chief Ruler,</span>
   <span id="f000056">in subordination to her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain.” It was his province to make the laws,</span>
   <span id="f000057">as well as execute them.</span>
   <span id="f000058">His office was elective;</span>
   <span id="f000059">everybody over seventeen years old had a vote – no matter about the sex.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">The sole occupations of the people were farming and fishing;</span>
   <span id="f000061">their sole recreation,</span>
   <span id="f000062">religious services.</span>
   <span id="f000063">There has never been a shop in the island,</span>
   <span id="f000064">nor any money.</span>
   <span id="f000065">The habits and dress of the people have always been primitive,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and their laws simple to puerility.</span>
   <span id="f000067">They have lived in a deep Sabbath tranquillity,</span>
   <span id="f000068">far from the world and its ambitions and vexations,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and neither knowing nor caring what was going on in the mighty empires that lie beyond their limitless ocean solitudes.</span>
   <span id="f000070">Once in three or four years a ship touched there,</span>
   <span id="f000071">moved them with aged news of bloody battles,</span>
   <span id="f000072">devastating epidemics,</span>
   <span id="f000073">fallen thrones,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and ruined dynasties,</span>
   <span id="f000075">then traded them some soap and flannel for some yams and breadfruit,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and sailed away,</span>
   <span id="f000077">leaving them to retire into their peaceful dreams and pious dissipations once more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">On the 8th of last September,</span>
   <span id="f000079">Admiral de Horsey,</span>
   <span id="f000080">commander-in-chief of the British fleet in the Pacific,</span>
   <span id="f000081">visited Pitcairn’s Island,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and speaks as follows in his official report to the admiralty:</span>
   <span id="f000083">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000084">They have beans,</span>
   <span id="f000085">carrots,</span>
   <span id="f000086">turnips,</span>
   <span id="f000087">cabbages,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and a little maize;</span>
   <span id="f000089">pineapples,</span>
   <span id="f000090">fig-trees,</span>
   <span id="f000091">custard-apples,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and oranges;</span>
   <span id="f000093">lemons,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and cocoa-nuts.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Clothing is obtained alone from passing ships,</span>
   <span id="f000096">in barter for refreshments.</span>
   <span id="f000097">There are no springs on the island,</span>
   <span id="f000098">but as it rains generally once a month they have plenty of water,</span>
   <span id="f000099">although at times in former years they have suffered from drought.</span>
   <span id="f000100">No alcoholic liquors,</span>
   <span id="f000101">except for medicinal purposes,</span>
   <span id="f000102">are used,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and a drunkard is unknown…</span>
   <span id="f000104">.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">The necessary articles required by the islanders are best shown by those we furnished in barter for refreshments:</span>
   <span id="f000106">namely,</span>
   <span id="f000107">flannel,</span>
   <span id="f000108">serge,</span>
   <span id="f000109">drill,</span>
   <span id="f000110">half-boots,</span>
   <span id="f000111">combs,</span>
   <span id="f000112">tobacco,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and soap.</span>
   <span id="f000114">They also stand much in need of maps and slates for their school,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and tools of any kind are most acceptable.</span>
   <span id="f000116">I caused them to be supplied from the public stores with a Union jack for display on the arrival of ships,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and a pit-saw,</span>
   <span id="f000118">of which they were greatly in need.</span>
   <span id="f000119">This,</span>
   <span id="f000120">I trust,</span>
   <span id="f000121">will meet the approval of their lordships.</span>
   <span id="f000122">If the munificent people of England were only aware of the wants of this most deserving little colony,</span>
   <span id="f000123">they would not long go unsupplied…</span>
   <span id="f000124">.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">Divine service is held every Sunday at 10.30 A.M.</span>
   <span id="f000126">and at 3 P.M.,</span>
   <span id="f000127">in the house built and used by John Adams for that purpose until he died in 1829.</span>
   <span id="f000128">It is conducted strictly in accordance with the liturgy of the Church of England,</span>
   <span id="f000129">by Mr.&#160;Simon Young,</span>
   <span id="f000130">their selected pastor,</span>
   <span id="f000131">who is much respected.</span>
   <span id="f000132">A Bible class is held every Wednesday,</span>
   <span id="f000133">when all who conveniently can,</span>
   <span id="f000134">attend.</span>
   <span id="f000135">There is also a general meeting for prayer on the first Friday in every month.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Family prayers are said in every house the first thing in the morning and the last thing in the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and no food is partaken of without asking God’s blessing before and afterward.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Of these islanders’ religious attributes no one can speak without deep respect.</span>
   <span id="f000139">A people whose greatest pleasure and privilege is to commune in prayer with their God,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and to join in hymns of praise,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and who are,</span>
   <span id="f000142">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000143">cheerful,</span>
   <span id="f000144">diligent,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and probably freer from vice than any other community,</span>
   <span id="f000146">need no priest among them.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000147">Now I come to a sentence in the admiral’s report which he dropped carelessly from his pen,</span>
   <span id="f000148">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and never gave the matter a second thought.</span>
   <span id="f000150">He little imagined what a freight of tragic prophecy it bore!</span>
   <span id="f000151">This is the sentence:</span>
   <span id="f000152">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000153">One stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000154">an American,</span>
   <span id="f000155">has settled on the island – a doubtful acquisition.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000156">A doubtful acquisition,</span>
   <span id="f000157">indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000158">Captain Ormsby,</span>
   <span id="f000159">in the American ship Hornet,</span>
   <span id="f000160">touched at Pitcairn’s nearly four months after the admiral’s visit,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and from the facts which he gathered there we now know all about that American.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Let us put these facts together in historical form.</span>
   <span id="f000163">The American’s name was Butterworth Stavely.</span>
   <span id="f000164">As soon as he had become well acquainted with all the people – and this took but a few days,</span>
   <span id="f000165">of course – he began to ingratiate himself with them by all the arts he could command.</span>
   <span id="f000166">He became exceedingly popular,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and much looked up to;</span>
   <span id="f000168">for one of the first things he did was to forsake his worldly way of life,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and throw all his energies into religion.</span>
   <span id="f000170">He was always reading his Bible,</span>
   <span id="f000171">or praying,</span>
   <span id="f000172">or singing hymns,</span>
   <span id="f000173">or asking blessings.</span>
   <span id="f000174">In prayer,</span>
   <span id="f000175">no one had such “liberty” as he,</span>
   <span id="f000176">no one could pray so long or so well.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000178">when he considered the time to be ripe,</span>
   <span id="f000179">he began secretly to sow the seeds of discontent among the people.</span>
   <span id="f000180">It was his deliberate purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000181">from the beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000182">to subvert the government,</span>
   <span id="f000183">but of course he kept that to himself for a time.</span>
   <span id="f000184">He used different arts with different individuals.</span>
   <span id="f000185">He awakened dissatisfaction in one quarter by calling attention to the shortness of the Sunday services;</span>
   <span id="f000186">he argued that there should be three three-hour services on Sunday instead of only two.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Many had secretly held this opinion before;</span>
   <span id="f000188">they now privately banded themselves into a party to work for it.</span>
   <span id="f000189">He showed certain of the women that they were not allowed sufficient voice in the prayer-meetings;</span>
   <span id="f000190">thus another party was formed.</span>
   <span id="f000191">No weapon was beneath his notice;</span>
   <span id="f000192">he even descended to the children,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and awoke discontent in their breasts because – as he discovered for them – they had not enough Sunday-school.</span>
   <span id="f000194">This created a third party.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000196">as the chief of these parties,</span>
   <span id="f000197">he found himself the strongest power in the community.</span>
   <span id="f000198">So he proceeded to his next move – a no less important one than the impeachment of the chief magistrate,</span>
   <span id="f000199">James Russell Nickoy;</span>
   <span id="f000200">a man of character and ability,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and possessed of great wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000202">he being the owner of a house with a parlor to it,</span>
   <span id="f000203">three acres and a half of yam land,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and the only boat in Pitcairn’s,</span>
   <span id="f000205">a whaleboat;</span>
   <span id="f000206">and,</span>
   <span id="f000207">most unfortunately,</span>
   <span id="f000208">a pretext for this impeachment offered itself at just the right time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">One of the earliest and most precious laws of the island was the law against trespass.</span>
   <span id="f000210">It was held in great reverence,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and was regarded as the palladium of the people’s liberties.</span>
   <span id="f000212">About thirty years ago an important case came before the courts under this law,</span>
   <span id="f000213">in this wise:</span>
   <span id="f000214">a chicken belonging to Elizabeth Young</span>
   <span id="f000215">(aged,</span>
   <span id="f000216">at that time,</span>
   <span id="f000217">fifty-eight,</span>
   <span id="f000218">a daughter of John Mills,</span>
   <span id="f000219">one of the mutineers of the Bounty)</span>
   <span id="f000220">trespassed upon the grounds of Thursday October Christian</span>
   <span id="f000221">(aged twenty-nine,</span>
   <span id="f000222">a grandson of Fletcher Christian,</span>
   <span id="f000223">one of the mutineers).</span>
   <span id="f000224">Christian killed the chicken.</span>
   <span id="f000225">According to the law,</span>
   <span id="f000226">Christian could keep the chicken;</span>
   <span id="f000227">or,</span>
   <span id="f000228">if he preferred,</span>
   <span id="f000229">he could restore its remains to the owner and receive damages in “produce” to an amount equivalent to the waste and injury wrought by the trespasser.</span>
   <span id="f000230">The court records set forth that “the said Christian aforesaid did deliver the aforesaid remains to the said Elizabeth Young,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and did demand one bushel of yams in satisfaction of the damage done.” But Elizabeth Young considered the demand exorbitant;</span>
   <span id="f000232">the parties could not agree;</span>
   <span id="f000233">therefore Christian brought suit in the courts.</span>
   <span id="f000234">He lost his case in the justice’s court;</span>
   <span id="f000235">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000236">he was awarded only a half-peck of yams,</span>
   <span id="f000237">which he considered insufficient,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and in the nature of a defeat.</span>
   <span id="f000239">He appealed.</span>
   <span id="f000240">The case lingered several years in an ascending grade of courts,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and always resulted in decrees sustaining the original verdict;</span>
   <span id="f000242">and finally the thing got into the supreme court,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and there it stuck for twenty years.</span>
   <span id="f000244">But last summer,</span>
   <span id="f000245">even the supreme court managed to arrive at a decision at last.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Once more the original verdict was sustained.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Christian then said he was satisfied;</span>
   <span id="f000248">but Stavely was present,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and whispered to him and to his lawyer,</span>
   <span id="f000250">suggesting,</span>
   <span id="f000251">“as a mere form,” that the original law be exhibited,</span>
   <span id="f000252">in order to make sure that it still existed.</span>
   <span id="f000253">It seemed an odd idea,</span>
   <span id="f000254">but an ingenious one.</span>
   <span id="f000255">So the demand was made.</span>
   <span id="f000256">A messenger was sent to the magistrate’s house;</span>
   <span id="f000257">he presently returned with the tidings that it had disappeared from among the state archives.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">The court now pronounced its late decision void,</span>
   <span id="f000259">since it had been made under a law which had no actual existence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">Great excitement ensued immediately.</span>
   <span id="f000261">The news swept abroad over the whole island that the palladium of the public liberties was lost – maybe treasonably destroyed.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Within thirty minutes almost the entire nation were in the court-room – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000263">the church.</span>
   <span id="f000264">The impeachment of the chief magistrate followed,</span>
   <span id="f000265">upon Stavely’s motion.</span>
   <span id="f000266">The accused met his misfortune with the dignity which became his great office.</span>
   <span id="f000267">He did not plead,</span>
   <span id="f000268">or even argue;</span>
   <span id="f000269">he offered the simple defense that he had not meddled with the missing law;</span>
   <span id="f000270">that he had kept the state archives in the same candle-box that had been used as their depository from the beginning;</span>
   <span id="f000271">and that he was innocent of the removal or destruction of the lost document.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">But nothing could save him;</span>
   <span id="f000273">he was found guilty of misprision of treason,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and degraded from his office,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and all his property was confiscated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">The lamest part of the whole shameful matter was the reason suggested by his enemies for his destruction of the law,</span>
   <span id="f000277">to wit:</span>
   <span id="f000278">that he did it to favor Christian,</span>
   <span id="f000279">because Christian was his cousin!</span>
   <span id="f000280">Whereas Stavely was the only individual in the entire nation who was not his cousin.</span>
   <span id="f000281">The reader must remember that all these people are the descendants of half a dozen men;</span>
   <span id="f000282">that the first children intermarried together and bore grandchildren to the mutineers;</span>
   <span id="f000283">that these grandchildren intermarried;</span>
   <span id="f000284">after them,</span>
   <span id="f000285">great and great-great-grandchildren intermarried;</span>
   <span id="f000286">so that to-day everybody is blood kin to everybody.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000288">the relationships are wonderfully,</span>
   <span id="f000289">even astoundingly,</span>
   <span id="f000290">mixed up and complicated.</span>
   <span id="f000291">A stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000292">for instance,</span>
   <span id="f000293">says to an islander:</span>
   <span id="f000294">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“You speak of that young woman as your cousin;</span>
   <span id="f000296">a while ago you called her your aunt.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000298">she is my aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and my cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000300">too.</span>
   <span id="f000301">And also my stepsister,</span>
   <span id="f000302">my niece,</span>
   <span id="f000303">my fourth cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000304">my thirty-third cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000305">my forty-second cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000306">my great-aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000307">my grandmother,</span>
   <span id="f000308">my widowed sister-in-law – and next week she will be my wife.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">So the charge of nepotism against the chief magistrate was weak.</span>
   <span id="f000310">But no matter;</span>
   <span id="f000311">weak or strong,</span>
   <span id="f000312">it suited Stavely.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Stavely was immediately elected to the vacant magistracy,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and,</span>
   <span id="f000315">oozing reform from every pore,</span>
   <span id="f000316">he went vigorously to work.</span>
   <span id="f000317">In no long time religious services raged everywhere and unceasingly.</span>
   <span id="f000318">By command,</span>
   <span id="f000319">the second prayer of the Sunday morning service,</span>
   <span id="f000320">which had customarily endured some thirty-five or forty minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and had pleaded for the world,</span>
   <span id="f000322">first by continent and then by national and tribal detail,</span>
   <span id="f000323">was extended to an hour and a half,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and made to include supplications in behalf of the possible peoples in the several planets.</span>
   <span id="f000325">Everybody was pleased with this;</span>
   <span id="f000326">everybody said,</span>
   <span id="f000327">“Now this is something like.” By command,</span>
   <span id="f000328">the usual three-hour sermons were doubled in length.</span>
   <span id="f000329">The nation came in a body to testify their gratitude to the new magistrate.</span>
   <span id="f000330">The old law forbidding cooking on the Sabbath was extended to the prohibition of eating,</span>
   <span id="f000331">also.</span>
   <span id="f000332">By command,</span>
   <span id="f000333">Sunday-school was privileged to spread over into the week.</span>
   <span id="f000334">The joy of all classes was complete.</span>
   <span id="f000335">In one short month the new magistrate had become the people’s idol!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">The time was ripe for this man’s next move.</span>
   <span id="f000337">He began,</span>
   <span id="f000338">cautiously at first,</span>
   <span id="f000339">to poison the public mind against England.</span>
   <span id="f000340">He took the chief citizens aside,</span>
   <span id="f000341">one by one,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and conversed with them on this topic.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Presently he grew bolder,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and spoke out.</span>
   <span id="f000345">He said the nation owed it to itself,</span>
   <span id="f000346">to its honor,</span>
   <span id="f000347">to its great traditions,</span>
   <span id="f000348">to rise in its might and throw off “this galling English yoke.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">But the simple islanders answered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“We had not noticed that it galled.</span>
   <span id="f000351">How does it gall?</span>
   <span id="f000352">England sends a ship once in three or four years to give us soap and clothing,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and things which we sorely need and gratefully receive;</span>
   <span id="f000354">but she never troubles us;</span>
   <span id="f000355">she lets us go our own way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“She lets you go your own way!</span>
   <span id="f000357">So slaves have felt and spoken in all the ages!</span>
   <span id="f000358">This speech shows how fallen you are,</span>
   <span id="f000359">how base,</span>
   <span id="f000360">how brutalized you have become,</span>
   <span id="f000361">under this grinding tyranny!</span>
   <span id="f000362">What!</span>
   <span id="f000363">has all manly pride forsaken you?</span>
   <span id="f000364">Is liberty nothing?</span>
   <span id="f000365">Are you content to be a mere appendage to a foreign and hateful sovereignty,</span>
   <span id="f000366">when you might rise up and take your rightful place in the august family of nations,</span>
   <span id="f000367">great,</span>
   <span id="f000368">free,</span>
   <span id="f000369">enlightened,</span>
   <span id="f000370">independent,</span>
   <span id="f000371">the minion of no sceptered master,</span>
   <span id="f000372">but the arbiter of your own destiny,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and a voice and a power in decreeing the destinies of your sister-sovereignties of the world?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">Speeches like this produced an effect by-and-by.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Citizens began to feel the English yoke;</span>
   <span id="f000376">they did not know exactly how or whereabouts they felt it,</span>
   <span id="f000377">but they were perfectly certain they did feel it.</span>
   <span id="f000378">They got to grumbling a good deal,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and chafing under their chains,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and longing for relief and release.</span>
   <span id="f000381">They presently fell to hating the English flag,</span>
   <span id="f000382">that sign and symbol of their nation’s degradation;</span>
   <span id="f000383">they ceased to glance up at it as they passed the capitol,</span>
   <span id="f000384">but averted their eyes and grated their teeth;</span>
   <span id="f000385">and one morning,</span>
   <span id="f000386">when it was found trampled into the mud at the foot of the staff,</span>
   <span id="f000387">they left it there,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and no man put his hand to it to hoist it again.</span>
   <span id="f000389">A certain thing which was sure to happen sooner or later happened now.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Some of the chief citizens went to the magistrate by night,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000392">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“We can endure this hated tyranny no longer.</span>
   <span id="f000394">How can we cast it off?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“By a coup d’etat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“How?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“A coup d’etat.</span>
   <span id="f000398">It is like this:</span>
   <span id="f000399">everything is got ready,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and at the appointed moment I,</span>
   <span id="f000401">as the official head of the nation,</span>
   <span id="f000402">publicly and solemnly proclaim its independence,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and absolve it from allegiance to any and all other powers whatsoever.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“That sounds simple and easy.</span>
   <span id="f000405">We can do that right away.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Then what will be the next thing to do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“Seize all the defenses and public properties of all kinds,</span>
   <span id="f000408">establish martial law,</span>
   <span id="f000409">put the army and navy on a war footing,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and proclaim the empire!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">This fine program dazzled these innocents.</span>
   <span id="f000412">They said:</span>
   <span id="f000413">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“This is grand – this is splendid;</span>
   <span id="f000415">but will not England resist?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">“Let her.</span>
   <span id="f000417">This rock is a Gibraltar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“True.</span>
   <span id="f000419">But about the empire?</span>
   <span id="f000420">Do we need an empire and an emperor?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">“What you need,</span>
   <span id="f000422">my friends,</span>
   <span id="f000423">is unification.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Look at Germany;</span>
   <span id="f000425">look at Italy.</span>
   <span id="f000426">They are unified.</span>
   <span id="f000427">Unification is the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000428">It makes living dear.</span>
   <span id="f000429">That constitutes progress.</span>
   <span id="f000430">We must have a standing army and a navy.</span>
   <span id="f000431">Taxes follow,</span>
   <span id="f000432">as a matter of course.</span>
   <span id="f000433">All these things summed up make grandeur.</span>
   <span id="f000434">With unification and grandeur,</span>
   <span id="f000435">what more can you want?</span>
   <span id="f000436">Very well – only the empire can confer these boons.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">So on the 8th day of December Pitcairn’s Island was proclaimed a free and independent nation;</span>
   <span id="f000438">and on the same day the solemn coronation of Butterworth I,</span>
   <span id="f000439">Emperor of Pitcairn’s Island,</span>
   <span id="f000440">took place,</span>
   <span id="f000441">amid great rejoicings and festivities.</span>
   <span id="f000442">The entire nation,</span>
   <span id="f000443">with the exception of fourteen persons,</span>
   <span id="f000444">mainly little children,</span>
   <span id="f000445">marched past the throne in single file,</span>
   <span id="f000446">with banners and music,</span>
   <span id="f000447">the procession being upward of ninety feet long;</span>
   <span id="f000448">and some said it was as much as three-quarters of a minute passing a given point.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Nothing like it had ever been seen in the history of the island before.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Public enthusiasm was measureless.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">Now straightway imperial reforms began.</span>
   <span id="f000452">Orders of nobility were instituted.</span>
   <span id="f000453">A minister of the navy was appointed,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and the whale-boat put in commission.</span>
   <span id="f000455">A minister of war was created,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and ordered to proceed at once with the formation of a standing army.</span>
   <span id="f000457">A first lord of the treasury was named,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and commanded to get up a taxation scheme,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and also open negotiations for treaties,</span>
   <span id="f000460">offensive,</span>
   <span id="f000461">defensive,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and commercial,</span>
   <span id="f000463">with foreign powers.</span>
   <span id="f000464">Some generals and admirals were appointed;</span>
   <span id="f000465">also some chamberlains,</span>
   <span id="f000466">some equerries in waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and some lords of the bedchamber.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">At this point all the material was used up.</span>
   <span id="f000469">The Grand Duke of Galilee,</span>
   <span id="f000470">minister of war,</span>
   <span id="f000471">complained that all the sixteen grown men in the empire had been given great offices,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and consequently would not consent to serve in the ranks;</span>
   <span id="f000473">wherefore his standing army was at a stand-still.</span>
   <span id="f000474">The Marquis of Ararat,</span>
   <span id="f000475">minister of the navy,</span>
   <span id="f000476">made a similar complaint.</span>
   <span id="f000477">He said he was willing to steer the whale-boat himself,</span>
   <span id="f000478">but he must have somebody to man her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">The emperor did the best he could in the circumstances:</span>
   <span id="f000480">he took all the boys above the age of ten years away from their mothers,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and pressed them into the army,</span>
   <span id="f000482">thus constructing a corps of seventeen privates,</span>
   <span id="f000483">officered by one lieutenant-general and two major-generals.</span>
   <span id="f000484">This pleased the minister of war,</span>
   <span id="f000485">but procured the enmity of all the mothers in the land;</span>
   <span id="f000486">for they said their precious ones must now find bloody graves in the fields of war,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and he would be answerable for it.</span>
   <span id="f000488">Some of the more heartbroken and unappeasable among them lay constantly wait for the emperor and threw yams at him,</span>
   <span id="f000489">unmindful of the body-guard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">On account of the extreme scarcity of material,</span>
   <span id="f000491">it was found necessary to require the Duke of Bethany postmaster-general,</span>
   <span id="f000492">to pull stroke-oar in the navy and thus sit in the rear of a noble of lower degree namely,</span>
   <span id="f000493">Viscount Canaan,</span>
   <span id="f000494">lord-justice of the common pleas.</span>
   <span id="f000495">This turned the Duke of Bethany into tolerably open malcontent and a secret conspirator – a thing which the emperor foresaw,</span>
   <span id="f000496">but could not help.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">Things went from bad to worse.</span>
   <span id="f000498">The emperor raised Nancy Peters to the peerage on one day,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and married her the next,</span>
   <span id="f000500">notwithstanding,</span>
   <span id="f000501">for reasons of state,</span>
   <span id="f000502">the cabinet had strenuously advised him to marry Emmeline,</span>
   <span id="f000503">eldest daughter of the Archbishop of Bethlehem.</span>
   <span id="f000504">This caused trouble in a powerful quarter – the church.</span>
   <span id="f000505">The new empress secured the support and friendship of two-thirds of the thirty-six grown women in the nation by absorbing them into her court as maids of honor;</span>
   <span id="f000506">but this made deadly enemies of the remaining twelve.</span>
   <span id="f000507">The families of the maids of honor soon began to rebel,</span>
   <span id="f000508">because there was nobody at home to keep house.</span>
   <span id="f000509">The twelve snubbed women refused to enter the imperial kitchen as servants;</span>
   <span id="f000510">so the empress had to require the Countess of Jericho and other great court dames to fetch water,</span>
   <span id="f000511">sweep the palace,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and perform other menial and equally distasteful services.</span>
   <span id="f000513">This made bad blood in that department.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">Everybody fell to complaining that the taxes levied for the support of the army,</span>
   <span id="f000515">the navy,</span>
   <span id="f000516">and the rest of the imperial establishment were intolerably burdensome,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and were reducing the nation to beggary.</span>
   <span id="f000518">The emperor’s reply – “Look – Look at Germany;</span>
   <span id="f000519">look at Italy.</span>
   <span id="f000520">Are you better than they?</span>
   <span id="f000521">and haven’t you unification?” – did not satisfy them.</span>
   <span id="f000522">They said,</span>
   <span id="f000523">“People can’t eat unification,</span>
   <span id="f000524">and we are starving.</span>
   <span id="f000525">Agriculture has ceased.</span>
   <span id="f000526">Everybody is in the army,</span>
   <span id="f000527">everybody is in the navy,</span>
   <span id="f000528">everybody is in the public service,</span>
   <span id="f000529">standing around in a uniform,</span>
   <span id="f000530">with nothing whatever to do,</span>
   <span id="f000531">nothing to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and nobody to till the fields – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“Look at Germany;</span>
   <span id="f000534">look at Italy.</span>
   <span id="f000535">It is the same there.</span>
   <span id="f000536">Such is unification,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and there’s no other way to get it – no other way to keep it after you’ve got it,” said the poor emperor always.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000538">But the grumblers only replied,</span>
   <span id="f000539">“We can’t stand the taxes – we can’t stand them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">Now right on top of this the cabinet reported a national debt amounting to upward of forty-five dollars – half a dollar to every individual in the nation.</span>
   <span id="f000541">And they proposed to fund something.</span>
   <span id="f000542">They had heard that this was always done in such emergencies.</span>
   <span id="f000543">They proposed duties on exports;</span>
   <span id="f000544">also on imports.</span>
   <span id="f000545">And they wanted to issue bonds;</span>
   <span id="f000546">also paper money,</span>
   <span id="f000547">redeemable in yams and cabbages in fifty years.</span>
   <span id="f000548">They said the pay of the army and of the navy and of the whole governmental machine was far in arrears,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and unless something was done,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and done immediately,</span>
   <span id="f000551">national bankruptcy must ensue,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and possibly insurrection and revolution.</span>
   <span id="f000553">The emperor at once resolved upon a high-handed measure,</span>
   <span id="f000554">and one of a nature never before heard of in Pitcairn’s Island.</span>
   <span id="f000555">He went in state to the church on Sunday morning,</span>
   <span id="f000556">with the army at his back,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and commanded the minister of the treasury to take up a collection.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">That was the feather that broke the camel’s back.</span>
   <span id="f000559">First one citizen,</span>
   <span id="f000560">and then another,</span>
   <span id="f000561">rose and refused to submit to this unheard-of outrage – and each refusal was followed by the immediate confiscation of the malcontent’s property.</span>
   <span id="f000562">This vigor soon stopped the refusals,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and the collection proceeded amid a sullen and ominous silence.</span>
   <span id="f000564">As the emperor withdrew with the troops,</span>
   <span id="f000565">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000566">“I will teach you who is master here.” Several persons shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000567">“Down with unification!” They were at once arrested and torn from the arms of their weeping friends by the soldiery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">But in the mean time,</span>
   <span id="f000569">as any prophet might have foreseen,</span>
   <span id="f000570">a Social Democrat had been developed.</span>
   <span id="f000571">As the emperor stepped into the gilded imperial wheelbarrow at the church door,</span>
   <span id="f000572">the social democrat stabbed at him fifteen or sixteen times with a harpoon,</span>
   <span id="f000573">but fortunately with such a peculiarly social democratic unprecision of aim as to do no damage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">That very night the convulsion came.</span>
   <span id="f000575">The nation rose as one man – though forty-nine of the revolutionists were of the other sex.</span>
   <span id="f000576">The infantry threw down their pitchforks;</span>
   <span id="f000577">the artillery cast aside their cocoa-nuts;</span>
   <span id="f000578">the navy revolted;</span>
   <span id="f000579">the emperor was seized,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and bound hand and foot in his palace.</span>
   <span id="f000581">He was very much depressed.</span>
   <span id="f000582">He said:</span>
   <span id="f000583">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000584">“I freed you from a grinding tyranny;</span>
   <span id="f000585">I lifted you up out of your degradation,</span>
   <span id="f000586">and made you a nation among nations;</span>
   <span id="f000587">I gave you a strong,</span>
   <span id="f000588">compact,</span>
   <span id="f000589">centralized government;</span>
   <span id="f000590">and,</span>
   <span id="f000591">more than all,</span>
   <span id="f000592">I gave you the blessing of blessings – unification.</span>
   <span id="f000593">I have done all this,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and my reward is hatred,</span>
   <span id="f000595">insult,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and these bonds.</span>
   <span id="f000597">Take me;</span>
   <span id="f000598">do with me as you will.</span>
   <span id="f000599">I here resign my crown and all my dignities,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and gladly do I release myself from their too heavy burden.</span>
   <span id="f000601">For your sake I took them up;</span>
   <span id="f000602">for your sake I lay them down.</span>
   <span id="f000603">The imperial jewel is no more;</span>
   <span id="f000604">now bruise and defile as ye will the useless setting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">By a unanimous voice the people condemned the ex-emperor and the social democrat to perpetual banishment from church services,</span>
   <span id="f000606">or to perpetual labor as galley-slaves in the whale-boat – whichever they might prefer.</span>
   <span id="f000607">The next day the nation assembled again,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and rehoisted the British flag,</span>
   <span id="f000609">reinstated the British tyranny,</span>
   <span id="f000610">reduced the nobility to the condition of commoners again,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and then straightway turned their diligent attention to the weeding of the ruined and neglected yam patches,</span>
   <span id="f000612">and the rehabilitation of the old useful industries and the old healing and solacing pieties.</span>
   <span id="f000613">The ex-emperor restored the lost trespass law,</span>
   <span id="f000614">and explained that he had stolen it – not to injure any one,</span>
   <span id="f000615">but to further his political projects.</span>
   <span id="f000616">Therefore the nation gave the late chief magistrate his office again,</span>
   <span id="f000617">and also his alienated Property.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">Upon reflection,</span>
   <span id="f000619">the ex-emperor and the social democrat chose perpetual banishment from religious services in preference to perpetual labor as galley-slaves “with perpetual religious services,” as they phrased it;</span>
   <span id="f000620">wherefore the people believed that the poor fellows’ troubles had unseated their reason,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and so they judged it best to confine them for the present.</span>
   <span id="f000622">Which they did.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">Such is the history of Pitcairn’s “doubtful acquisition.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

