<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Canvasser’s Tale</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Poor,</span>
   <span id="f000003">sad-eyed stranger!</span>
   <span id="f000004">There was that about his humble mien,</span>
   <span id="f000005">his tired look,</span>
   <span id="f000006">his decayed-gentility clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000007">that almost reached the mustard-seed of charity that still remained,</span>
   <span id="f000008">remote and lonely,</span>
   <span id="f000009">in the empty vastness of my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000010">notwithstanding I observed a portfolio under his arm,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and said to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000012">Behold,</span>
   <span id="f000013">Providence hath delivered his servant into the hands of another canvasser.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000015">these people always get one interested.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Before I well knew how it came about,</span>
   <span id="f000017">this one was telling me his history,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and I was all attention and sympathy.</span>
   <span id="f000019">He told it something like this:</span>
   <span id="f000020">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">My parents died,</span>
   <span id="f000022">alas,</span>
   <span id="f000023">when I was a little,</span>
   <span id="f000024">sinless child.</span>
   <span id="f000025">My uncle Ithuriel took me to his heart and reared me as his own.</span>
   <span id="f000026">He was my only relative in the wide world;</span>
   <span id="f000027">but he was good and rich and generous.</span>
   <span id="f000028">He reared me in the lap of luxury.</span>
   <span id="f000029">I knew no want that money could satisfy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">In the fullness of time I was graduated,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and went with two of my servants – my chamberlain and my valet – to travel in foreign countries.</span>
   <span id="f000032">During four years I flitted upon careless wing amid the beauteous gardens of the distant strand,</span>
   <span id="f000033">if you will permit this form of speech in one whose tongue was ever attuned to poesy;</span>
   <span id="f000034">and indeed I so speak with confidence,</span>
   <span id="f000035">as one unto his kind,</span>
   <span id="f000036">for I perceive by your eyes that you too,</span>
   <span id="f000037">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000038">are gifted with the divine inflation.</span>
   <span id="f000039">In those far lands I reveled in the ambrosial food that fructifies the soul,</span>
   <span id="f000040">the mind,</span>
   <span id="f000041">the heart.</span>
   <span id="f000042">But of all things,</span>
   <span id="f000043">that which most appealed to my inborn esthetic taste was the prevailing custom there,</span>
   <span id="f000044">among the rich,</span>
   <span id="f000045">of making collections of elegant and costly rarities,</span>
   <span id="f000046">dainty objets de vertu,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and in an evil hour I tried to uplift my uncle Ithuriel to a plane of sympathy with this exquisite employment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">I wrote and told him of one gentleman’s vast collection of shells;</span>
   <span id="f000049">another’s noble collection of meerschaum pipes;</span>
   <span id="f000050">another’s elevating and refining collection of undecipherable autographs;</span>
   <span id="f000051">another’s priceless collection of old china;</span>
   <span id="f000052">another’s enchanting collection of postage-stamps – and so forth and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Soon my letters yielded fruit.</span>
   <span id="f000054">My uncle began to look about for something to make a collection of.</span>
   <span id="f000055">You may know,</span>
   <span id="f000056">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000057">how fleetly a taste like this dilates.</span>
   <span id="f000058">His soon became a raging fever,</span>
   <span id="f000059">though I knew it not.</span>
   <span id="f000060">He began to neglect his great pork business;</span>
   <span id="f000061">presently he wholly retired and turned an elegant leisure into a rabid search for curious things.</span>
   <span id="f000062">His wealth was vast,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and he spared it not.</span>
   <span id="f000064">First he tried cow-bells.</span>
   <span id="f000065">He made a collection which filled five large salons,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and comprehended all the different sorts of cow-bells that ever had been contrived,</span>
   <span id="f000067">save one.</span>
   <span id="f000068">That one – an antique,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and the only specimen extant – was possessed by another collector.</span>
   <span id="f000070">My uncle offered enormous sums for it,</span>
   <span id="f000071">but the gentleman would not sell.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Doubtless you know what necessarily resulted.</span>
   <span id="f000073">A true collector attaches no value to a collection that is not complete.</span>
   <span id="f000074">His great heart breaks,</span>
   <span id="f000075">he sells his hoard,</span>
   <span id="f000076">he turns his mind to some field that seems unoccupied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">Thus did my uncle.</span>
   <span id="f000078">He next tried brickbats.</span>
   <span id="f000079">After piling up a vast and intensely interesting collection,</span>
   <span id="f000080">the former difficulty supervened;</span>
   <span id="f000081">his great heart broke again;</span>
   <span id="f000082">he sold out his soul’s idol to the retired brewer who possessed the missing brick.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Then he tried flint hatchets and other implements of Primeval Man,</span>
   <span id="f000084">but by and by discovered that the factory where they were made was supplying other collectors as well as himself.</span>
   <span id="f000085">He tried Aztec inscriptions and stuffed whales – another failure,</span>
   <span id="f000086">after incredible labor and expense.</span>
   <span id="f000087">When his collection seemed at last perfect,</span>
   <span id="f000088">a stuffed whale arrived from Greenland and an Aztec inscription from the Cundurango regions of Central America that made all former specimens insignificant.</span>
   <span id="f000089">My uncle hastened to secure these noble gems.</span>
   <span id="f000090">He got the stuffed whale,</span>
   <span id="f000091">but another collector got the inscription.</span>
   <span id="f000092">A real Cundurango,</span>
   <span id="f000093">as possibly you know,</span>
   <span id="f000094">is a possession of such supreme value that,</span>
   <span id="f000095">when once a collector gets it,</span>
   <span id="f000096">he will rather part with his family than with it.</span>
   <span id="f000097">So my uncle sold out,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and saw his darlings go forth,</span>
   <span id="f000099">never more to return;</span>
   <span id="f000100">and his coal-black hair turned white as snow in a single night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">Now he waited,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and thought.</span>
   <span id="f000103">He knew another disappointment might kill him.</span>
   <span id="f000104">He was resolved that he would choose things next time that no other man was collecting.</span>
   <span id="f000105">He carefully made up his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and once more entered the field-this time to make a collection of echoes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“Of what?” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">Echoes,</span>
   <span id="f000109">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000110">His first purchase was an echo in Georgia that repeated four times;</span>
   <span id="f000111">his next was a six-repeater in Maryland;</span>
   <span id="f000112">his next was a thirteen-repeater in Maine;</span>
   <span id="f000113">his next was a nine-repeater in Kansas;</span>
   <span id="f000114">his next was a twelve-repeater in Tennessee,</span>
   <span id="f000115">which he got cheap,</span>
   <span id="f000116">so to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000117">because it was out of repair,</span>
   <span id="f000118">a portion of the crag which reflected it having tumbled down.</span>
   <span id="f000119">He believed he could repair it at a cost of a few thousand dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and,</span>
   <span id="f000121">by increasing the elevation with masonry,</span>
   <span id="f000122">treble the repeating capacity;</span>
   <span id="f000123">but the architect who undertook the job had never built an echo before,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and so he utterly spoiled this one.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Before he meddled with it,</span>
   <span id="f000126">it used to talk back like a mother-in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000127">but now it was only fit for the deaf-and-dumb asylum.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000129">next he bought a lot of cheap little double-barreled echoes,</span>
   <span id="f000130">scattered around over various states and territories;</span>
   <span id="f000131">he got them at twenty per cent.</span>
   <span id="f000132">off by taking the lot.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Next he bought a perfect Gatling-gun of an echo in Oregon,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and it cost a fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000135">I can tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000136">You may know,</span>
   <span id="f000137">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000138">that in the echo market the scale of prices is cumulative,</span>
   <span id="f000139">like the carat-scale in diamonds;</span>
   <span id="f000140">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000141">the same phraseology is used.</span>
   <span id="f000142">A single-carat echo is worth but ten dollars over and above the value of the land it is on;</span>
   <span id="f000143">a two-carat or double-barreled echo is worth thirty dollars;</span>
   <span id="f000144">a five-carat is worth nine hundred and fifty;</span>
   <span id="f000145">a ten-carat is worth thirteen thousand.</span>
   <span id="f000146">My uncle’s Oregon-echo,</span>
   <span id="f000147">which he called the Great Pitt Echo,</span>
   <span id="f000148">was a twenty-two carat gem,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and cost two hundred and sixteen thousand dollars – they threw the land in,</span>
   <span id="f000150">for it was four hundred miles from a settlement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000152">in the mean time my path was a path of roses.</span>
   <span id="f000153">I was the accepted suitor of the only and lovely daughter of an English earl,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and was beloved to distraction.</span>
   <span id="f000155">In that dear presence I swam in seas of bliss.</span>
   <span id="f000156">The family were content,</span>
   <span id="f000157">for it was known that I was sole heir to an uncle held to be worth five millions of dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000158">However,</span>
   <span id="f000159">none of us knew that my uncle had become a collector,</span>
   <span id="f000160">at least in anything more than a small way,</span>
   <span id="f000161">for esthetic amusement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">Now gathered the clouds above my unconscious head.</span>
   <span id="f000163">That divine echo,</span>
   <span id="f000164">since known throughout the world as the Great Koh-i-noor,</span>
   <span id="f000165">or Mountain of Repetitions,</span>
   <span id="f000166">was discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000167">It was a sixty-five carat gem.</span>
   <span id="f000168">You could utter a word and it would talk back at you for fifteen minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000169">when the day was otherwise quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000170">But behold,</span>
   <span id="f000171">another fact came to light at the same time:</span>
   <span id="f000172">another echo-collector was in the field.</span>
   <span id="f000173">The two rushed to make the peerless purchase.</span>
   <span id="f000174">The property consisted of a couple of small hills with a shallow swale between,</span>
   <span id="f000175">out yonder among the back settlements of New York State.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Both men arrived on the ground at the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and neither knew the other was there.</span>
   <span id="f000178">The echo was not all owned by one man;</span>
   <span id="f000179">a person by the name of Williamson Bolivar Jarvis owned the east hill,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and a person by the name of Harbison J.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Bledso owned the west hill;</span>
   <span id="f000182">the swale between was the dividing-line.</span>
   <span id="f000183">So while my uncle was buying Jarvis’s hill for three million two hundred and eighty-five thousand dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000184">the other party was buying Bledso’s hill for a shade over three million.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000186">do you perceive the natural result?</span>
   <span id="f000187">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000188">the noblest collection of echoes on earth was forever and ever incomplete,</span>
   <span id="f000189">since it possessed but the one-half of the king echo of the universe.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Neither man was content with this divided ownership,</span>
   <span id="f000191">yet neither would sell to the other.</span>
   <span id="f000192">There were jawings,</span>
   <span id="f000193">bickerings,</span>
   <span id="f000194">heart-burnings.</span>
   <span id="f000195">And at last that other collector,</span>
   <span id="f000196">with a malignity which only a collector can ever feel toward a man and a brother,</span>
   <span id="f000197">proceeded to cut down his hill!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">You see,</span>
   <span id="f000199">as long as he could not have the echo,</span>
   <span id="f000200">he was resolved that nobody should have it.</span>
   <span id="f000201">He would remove his hill,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and then there would be nothing to reflect my uncle’s echo.</span>
   <span id="f000203">My uncle remonstrated with him,</span>
   <span id="f000204">but the man said,</span>
   <span id="f000205">“I own one end of this echo;</span>
   <span id="f000206">I choose to kill my end;</span>
   <span id="f000207">you must take care of your own end yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000209">my uncle got an injunction put on him.</span>
   <span id="f000210">The other man appealed and fought it in a higher court.</span>
   <span id="f000211">They carried it on up,</span>
   <span id="f000212">clear to the Supreme Court of the United States.</span>
   <span id="f000213">It made no end of trouble there.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Two of the judges believed that an echo was personal property,</span>
   <span id="f000215">because it was impalpable to sight and touch,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and yet was purchasable,</span>
   <span id="f000217">salable,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and consequently taxable;</span>
   <span id="f000219">two others believed that an echo was real estate,</span>
   <span id="f000220">because it was manifestly attached to the land,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and was not removable from place to place;</span>
   <span id="f000222">other of the judges contended that an echo was not property at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">It was finally decided that the echo was property;</span>
   <span id="f000224">that the hills were property;</span>
   <span id="f000225">that the two men were separate and independent owners of the two hills,</span>
   <span id="f000226">but tenants in common in the echo;</span>
   <span id="f000227">therefore defendant was at full liberty to cut down his hill,</span>
   <span id="f000228">since it belonged solely to him,</span>
   <span id="f000229">but must give bonds in three million dollars as indemnity for damages which might result to my uncle’s half of the echo.</span>
   <span id="f000230">This decision also debarred my uncle from using defendant’s hill to reflect his part of the echo,</span>
   <span id="f000231">without defendant’s consent;</span>
   <span id="f000232">he must use only his own hill;</span>
   <span id="f000233">if his part of the echo would not go,</span>
   <span id="f000234">under these circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000235">it was sad,</span>
   <span id="f000236">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000237">but the court could find no remedy.</span>
   <span id="f000238">The court also debarred defendant from using my uncle’s hill to reflect his end of the echo,</span>
   <span id="f000239">without consent.</span>
   <span id="f000240">You see the grand result!</span>
   <span id="f000241">Neither man would give consent,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and so that astonishing and most noble echo had to cease from its great powers;</span>
   <span id="f000243">and since that day that magnificent property is tied up and unsalable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">A week before my wedding-day,</span>
   <span id="f000245">while I was still swimming in bliss and the nobility were gathering from far and near to honor our espousals,</span>
   <span id="f000246">came news of my uncle’s death,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and also a copy of his will,</span>
   <span id="f000248">making me his sole heir.</span>
   <span id="f000249">He was gone;</span>
   <span id="f000250">alas,</span>
   <span id="f000251">my dear benefactor was no more.</span>
   <span id="f000252">The thought surcharges my heart even at this remote day.</span>
   <span id="f000253">I handed the will to the earl;</span>
   <span id="f000254">I could not read it for the blinding tears.</span>
   <span id="f000255">The earl read it;</span>
   <span id="f000256">then he sternly said,</span>
   <span id="f000257">“Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000258">do you call this wealth?</span>
   <span id="f000259">– but doubtless you do in your inflated country.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000261">you are left sole heir to a vast collection of echoes – if a thing can be called a collection that is scattered far and wide over the huge length and breadth of the American continent;</span>
   <span id="f000262">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000263">this is not all;</span>
   <span id="f000264">you are head and ears in debt;</span>
   <span id="f000265">there is not an echo in the lot but has a mortgage on it;</span>
   <span id="f000266">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000267">I am not a hard man,</span>
   <span id="f000268">but I must look to my child’s interest;</span>
   <span id="f000269">if you had but one echo which you could honestly call your own,</span>
   <span id="f000270">if you had but one echo which was free from incumbrance,</span>
   <span id="f000271">so that you could retire to it with my child,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and by humble,</span>
   <span id="f000273">painstaking industry cultivate and improve it,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and thus wrest from it a maintenance,</span>
   <span id="f000275">I would not say you nay;</span>
   <span id="f000276">but I cannot marry my child to a beggar.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Leave his side,</span>
   <span id="f000278">my darling;</span>
   <span id="f000279">go,</span>
   <span id="f000280">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000281">take your mortgage-ridden echoes and quit my sight forever.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">My noble Celestine clung to me in tears,</span>
   <span id="f000283">with loving arms,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and swore she would willingly,</span>
   <span id="f000285">nay gladly,</span>
   <span id="f000286">marry me,</span>
   <span id="f000287">though I had not an echo in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000288">But it could not be.</span>
   <span id="f000289">We were torn asunder,</span>
   <span id="f000290">she to pine and die within the twelvemonth,</span>
   <span id="f000291">I to toil life’s long journey sad and alone,</span>
   <span id="f000292">praying daily,</span>
   <span id="f000293">hourly,</span>
   <span id="f000294">for that release which shall join us together again in that dear realm where the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000296">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000297">if you will be so kind as to look at these maps and plans in my portfolio,</span>
   <span id="f000298">I am sure I can sell you an echo for less money than any man in the trade.</span>
   <span id="f000299">Now this one,</span>
   <span id="f000300">which cost my uncle ten dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000301">thirty years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and is one of the sweetest things in Texas,</span>
   <span id="f000303">I will let you have for –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“Let me interrupt you,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000305">“My friend,</span>
   <span id="f000306">I have not had a moment’s respite from canvassers this day.</span>
   <span id="f000307">I have bought a sewing-machine which I did not want;</span>
   <span id="f000308">I have bought a map which is mistaken in all its details;</span>
   <span id="f000309">I have bought a clock which will not go;</span>
   <span id="f000310">I have bought a moth poison which the moths prefer to any other beverage;</span>
   <span id="f000311">I have bought no end of useless inventions,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and now I have had enough of this foolishness.</span>
   <span id="f000313">I would not have one of your echoes if you were even to give it to me.</span>
   <span id="f000314">I would not let it stay on the place.</span>
   <span id="f000315">I always hate a man that tries to sell me echoes.</span>
   <span id="f000316">You see this gun?</span>
   <span id="f000317">Now take your collection and move on;</span>
   <span id="f000318">let us not have bloodshed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">But he only smiled a sad,</span>
   <span id="f000320">sweet smile,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and got out some more diagrams.</span>
   <span id="f000322">You know the result perfectly well,</span>
   <span id="f000323">because you know that when you have once opened the door to a canvasser,</span>
   <span id="f000324">the trouble is done and you have got to suffer defeat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">I compromised with this man at the end of an intolerable hour.</span>
   <span id="f000326">I bought two double-barreled echoes in good condition,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and he threw in another,</span>
   <span id="f000328">which he said was not salable because it only spoke German.</span>
   <span id="f000329">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000330">“She was a perfect polyglot once,</span>
   <span id="f000331">but somehow her palate got down.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

