<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Paris Notes</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">[Crowded out of “A Tramp Abroad” to make room for more vital statistics.</span>
   <span id="f000003">– M.</span>
   <span id="f000004">T.]</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000005">The Parisian travels but little,</span>
   <span id="f000006">he knows no language but his own,</span>
   <span id="f000007">reads no literature but his own,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and consequently he is pretty narrow and pretty self-sufficient.</span>
   <span id="f000009">However,</span>
   <span id="f000010">let us not be too sweeping;</span>
   <span id="f000011">there are Frenchmen who know languages not their own:</span>
   <span id="f000012">these are the waiters.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Among the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000014">they know English;</span>
   <span id="f000015">that is,</span>
   <span id="f000016">they know it on the European plan – which is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000017">they can speak it,</span>
   <span id="f000018">but can’t understand it.</span>
   <span id="f000019">They easily make themselves understood,</span>
   <span id="f000020">but it is next to impossible to word an English sentence in such a way as to enable them to comprehend it.</span>
   <span id="f000021">They think they comprehend it;</span>
   <span id="f000022">they pretend they do;</span>
   <span id="f000023">but they don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Here is a conversation which I had with one of these beings;</span>
   <span id="f000025">I wrote it down at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000026">in order to have it exactly correct.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">I.</span>
   <span id="f000028">These are fine oranges.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Where are they grown?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">He.</span>
   <span id="f000031">More?</span>
   <span id="f000032">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000033">I will bring them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">I.</span>
   <span id="f000035">No,</span>
   <span id="f000036">do not bring any more;</span>
   <span id="f000037">I only want to know where they are from – where they are raised.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">He.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Yes?</span>
   <span id="f000040">(with imperturbable mien and rising inflection.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">I.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Can you tell me what country they are from?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">He.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Yes?</span>
   <span id="f000046">(blandly,</span>
   <span id="f000047">with rising inflection.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">I.</span>
   <span id="f000049">(disheartened).</span>
   <span id="f000050">They are very nice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">He.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Good night.</span>
   <span id="f000053">(Bows,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and retires,</span>
   <span id="f000055">quite satisfied with himself.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">That young man could have become a good English scholar by taking the right sort of pains,</span>
   <span id="f000057">but he was French,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and wouldn’t do that.</span>
   <span id="f000059">How different is the case with our people;</span>
   <span id="f000060">they utilize every means that offers.</span>
   <span id="f000061">There are some alleged French Protestants in Paris,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and they built a nice little church on one of the great avenues that lead away from the Arch of Triumph,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and proposed to listen to the correct thing,</span>
   <span id="f000064">preached in the correct way,</span>
   <span id="f000065">there,</span>
   <span id="f000066">in their precious French tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and be happy.</span>
   <span id="f000068">But their little game does not succeed.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Our people are always there ahead of them Sundays,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and take up all the room.</span>
   <span id="f000071">When the minister gets up to preach,</span>
   <span id="f000072">he finds his house full of devout foreigners,</span>
   <span id="f000073">each ready and waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000074">with his little book in his hand – a morocco-bound Testament,</span>
   <span id="f000075">apparently.</span>
   <span id="f000076">But only apparently;</span>
   <span id="f000077">it is Mr.&#160;Bellows’s admirable and exhaustive little French-English dictionary,</span>
   <span id="f000078">which in look and binding and size is just like a Testament and those people are there to study French.</span>
   <span id="f000079">The building has been nicknamed “The Church of the Gratis French Lesson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">These students probably acquire more language than general information,</span>
   <span id="f000081">for I am told that a French sermon is like a French speech – it never names a historical event,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but only the date of it;</span>
   <span id="f000083">if you are not up in dates,</span>
   <span id="f000084">you get left.</span>
   <span id="f000085">A French speech is something like this:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000086">Comrades,</span>
   <span id="f000087">citizens,</span>
   <span id="f000088">brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000089">noble parts of the only sublime and perfect nation,</span>
   <span id="f000090">let us not forget that the 21st January cast off our chains;</span>
   <span id="f000091">that the 10th August relieved us of the shameful presence of foreign spies;</span>
   <span id="f000092">that the 5th September was its own justification before heaven and humanity;</span>
   <span id="f000093">that the 18th Brumaire contained the seeds of its own punishment;</span>
   <span id="f000094">that the 14th July was the mighty voice of liberty proclaiming the resurrection,</span>
   <span id="f000095">the new day,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and inviting the oppressed peoples of the earth to look upon the divine face of France and live;</span>
   <span id="f000097">and let us here record our everlasting curse against the man of the 2d December,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and declare in thunder tones,</span>
   <span id="f000099">the native tones of France,</span>
   <span id="f000100">that but for him there had been no 17th March in history,</span>
   <span id="f000101">no 12th October,</span>
   <span id="f000102">no 19th January,</span>
   <span id="f000103">no 22d April,</span>
   <span id="f000104">no 16th November,</span>
   <span id="f000105">no 30th September,</span>
   <span id="f000106">no 2d July,</span>
   <span id="f000107">no 14th February,</span>
   <span id="f000108">no 29th June,</span>
   <span id="f000109">no 15th August,</span>
   <span id="f000110">no 31st May – that but for him,</span>
   <span id="f000111">France the pure,</span>
   <span id="f000112">the grand,</span>
   <span id="f000113">the peerless,</span>
   <span id="f000114">had had a serene and vacant almanac to-day!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000115">I have heard of one French sermon which closed in this odd yet eloquent way:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000116">My hearers,</span>
   <span id="f000117">we have sad cause to remember the man of the 13th January.</span>
   <span id="f000118">The results of the vast crime of the 13th January have been in just proportion to the magnitude of the set itself.</span>
   <span id="f000119">But for it there had been no 30 November – sorrowful spectacle!</span>
   <span id="f000120">The grisly deed of the 16th June had not been done but for it,</span>
   <span id="f000121">nor had the man of the 16th June known existence;</span>
   <span id="f000122">to it alone the 3d September was due,</span>
   <span id="f000123">also the fatal 12th October.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Shall we,</span>
   <span id="f000125">then,</span>
   <span id="f000126">be grateful for the 13th January,</span>
   <span id="f000127">with its freight of death for you and me and all that breathe?</span>
   <span id="f000128">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000129">my friends,</span>
   <span id="f000130">for it gave us also that which had never come but for it,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and it alone – the blessed 25th December.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000132">It may be well enough to explain,</span>
   <span id="f000133">though in the case of many of my readers this will hardly be necessary.</span>
   <span id="f000134">The man of the 13th January is Adam;</span>
   <span id="f000135">the crime of that date was the eating of the apple;</span>
   <span id="f000136">the sorrowful spectacle of the 30th November was the expulsion from Eden;</span>
   <span id="f000137">the grisly deed of the 16th June was the murder of Abel;</span>
   <span id="f000138">the act of the 3d September was the beginning of the journey to the land of Nod;</span>
   <span id="f000139">the 12th day of October,</span>
   <span id="f000140">the last mountain-tops disappeared under the flood.</span>
   <span id="f000141">When you go to church in France,</span>
   <span id="f000142">you want to take your almanac with you – annotated.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

