<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Legend of Sagenfeld, in Germany</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">[Left out of “A Tramp Abroad” because its authenticity seemed doubtful,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and could not at that time be proved.</span>
   <span id="f000004">– M.</span>
   <span id="f000005">T.]</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000006">More than a thousand years ago this small district was a kingdom – a little bit of a kingdom,</span>
   <span id="f000007">a sort of dainty little toy kingdom,</span>
   <span id="f000008">as one might say.</span>
   <span id="f000009">It was far removed from the jealousies,</span>
   <span id="f000010">strifes,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and turmoils of that old warlike day,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and so its life was a simple life,</span>
   <span id="f000013">its people a gentle and guileless race;</span>
   <span id="f000014">it lay always in a deep dream of peace,</span>
   <span id="f000015">a soft Sabbath tranquillity;</span>
   <span id="f000016">there was no malice,</span>
   <span id="f000017">there was no envy,</span>
   <span id="f000018">there was no ambition,</span>
   <span id="f000019">consequently there were no heart-burnings,</span>
   <span id="f000020">there was no unhappiness in the land.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">In the course of time the old king died and his little son Hubert came to the throne.</span>
   <span id="f000022">The people’s love for him grew daily;</span>
   <span id="f000023">he was so good and so pure and so noble,</span>
   <span id="f000024">that by and by his love became a passion,</span>
   <span id="f000025">almost a worship.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Now at his birth the soothsayers had diligently studied the stars and found something written in that shining book to this effect:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000027">In Hubert’s fourteenth year a pregnant event will happen;</span>
   <span id="f000028">the animal whose singing shall sound sweetest in Hubert’s ear shall save Hubert’s life.</span>
   <span id="f000029">So long as the king and the nation shall honor this animal’s race for this good deed,</span>
   <span id="f000030">the ancient dynasty shall not fail of an heir,</span>
   <span id="f000031">nor the nation know war or pestilence or poverty.</span>
   <span id="f000032">But beware an erring choice!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000033">All through the king’s thirteenth year but one thing was talked of by the soothsayers,</span>
   <span id="f000034">the statesmen,</span>
   <span id="f000035">the little parliament,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and the general people.</span>
   <span id="f000037">That one thing was this:</span>
   <span id="f000038">How is the last sentence of the prophecy to be understood?</span>
   <span id="f000039">What goes before seems to mean that the saving animal will choose itself at the proper time;</span>
   <span id="f000040">but the closing sentence seems to mean that the king must choose beforehand,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and say what singer among the animals pleases him best,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and that if he choose wisely the chosen animal will save his life,</span>
   <span id="f000043">his dynasty,</span>
   <span id="f000044">his people,</span>
   <span id="f000045">but that if he should make “an erring choice” – beware!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">By the end of the year there were as many opinions about this matter as there had been in the beginning;</span>
   <span id="f000047">but a majority of the wise and the simple were agreed that the safest plan would be for the little king to make choice beforehand,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and the earlier the better.</span>
   <span id="f000049">So an edict was sent forth commanding all persons who owned singing creatures to bring them to the great hall of the palace in the morning of the first day of the new year.</span>
   <span id="f000050">This command was obeyed.</span>
   <span id="f000051">When everything was in readiness for the trial,</span>
   <span id="f000052">the king made his solemn entry with the great officers of the crown,</span>
   <span id="f000053">all clothed in their robes of state.</span>
   <span id="f000054">The king mounted his golden throne and prepared to give judgment.</span>
   <span id="f000055">But he presently said:</span>
   <span id="f000056">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">“These creatures all sing at once;</span>
   <span id="f000058">the noise is unendurable;</span>
   <span id="f000059">no one can choose in such a turmoil.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Take them all away,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and bring back one at a time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">This was done.</span>
   <span id="f000063">One sweet warbler after another charmed the young king’s ear and was removed to make way for another candidate.</span>
   <span id="f000064">The precious minutes slipped by;</span>
   <span id="f000065">among so many bewitching songsters he found it hard to choose,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and all the harder because the promised penalty for an error was so terrible that it unsettled his judgment and made him afraid to trust his own ears.</span>
   <span id="f000067">He grew nervous and his face showed distress.</span>
   <span id="f000068">His ministers saw this,</span>
   <span id="f000069">for they never took their eyes from him a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000070">Now they began to say in their hearts:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“He has lost courage – the cool head is gone – he will err – he and his dynasty and his people are doomed!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">At the end of an hour the king sat silent awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and then said:</span>
   <span id="f000074">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“Bring back the linnet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">The linnet trilled forth her jubilant music.</span>
   <span id="f000077">In the midst of it the king was about to uplift his scepter in sign of choice,</span>
   <span id="f000078">but checked himself and said:</span>
   <span id="f000079">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“But let us be sure.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Bring back the thrush;</span>
   <span id="f000082">let them sing together.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">The thrush was brought,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and the two birds poured out their marvels of song together.</span>
   <span id="f000085">The king wavered,</span>
   <span id="f000086">then his inclination began to settle and strengthen – one could see it in his countenance.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Hope budded in the hearts of the old ministers,</span>
   <span id="f000088">their pulses began to beat quicker,</span>
   <span id="f000089">the scepter began to rise slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000090">when:</span>
   <span id="f000091">There was a hideous interruption!</span>
   <span id="f000092">It was a sound like this – just at the door:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“Waw…</span>
   <span id="f000094">he!</span>
   <span id="f000095">waw…</span>
   <span id="f000096">he!</span>
   <span id="f000097">waw-he!-waw he!-waw-he!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Everybody was sorely startled – and enraged at himself for showing it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">The next instant the dearest,</span>
   <span id="f000100">sweetest,</span>
   <span id="f000101">prettiest little peasant-maid of nine years came tripping in,</span>
   <span id="f000102">her brown eyes glowing with childish eagerness;</span>
   <span id="f000103">but when she saw that august company and those angry faces she stopped and hung her head and put her poor coarse apron to her eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Nobody gave her welcome,</span>
   <span id="f000105">none pitied her.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Presently she looked up timidly through her tears,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000108">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“My lord the king,</span>
   <span id="f000110">I pray you pardon me,</span>
   <span id="f000111">for I meant no wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000112">I have no father and no mother,</span>
   <span id="f000113">but I have a goat and a donkey,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and they are all in all to me.</span>
   <span id="f000115">My goat gives me the sweetest milk,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and when my dear good donkey brays it seems to me there is no music like to it.</span>
   <span id="f000117">So when my lord the king’s jester said the sweetest singer among all the animals should save the crown and nation,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and moved me to bring him here – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">All the court burst into a rude laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and the child fled away crying,</span>
   <span id="f000121">without trying to finish her speech.</span>
   <span id="f000122">The chief minister gave a private order that she and her disastrous donkey be flogged beyond the precincts of the palace and commanded to come within them no more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">Then the trial of the birds was resumed.</span>
   <span id="f000124">The two birds sang their best,</span>
   <span id="f000125">but the scepter lay motionless in the king’s hand.</span>
   <span id="f000126">Hope died slowly out in the breasts of all.</span>
   <span id="f000127">An hour went by;</span>
   <span id="f000128">two hours,</span>
   <span id="f000129">still no decision.</span>
   <span id="f000130">The day waned to its close,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and the waiting multitudes outside the palace grew crazed with anxiety and apprehension.</span>
   <span id="f000132">The twilight came on,</span>
   <span id="f000133">the shadows fell deeper and deeper.</span>
   <span id="f000134">The king and his court could no longer see each other’s faces.</span>
   <span id="f000135">No one spoke – none called for lights.</span>
   <span id="f000136">The great trial had been made;</span>
   <span id="f000137">it had failed;</span>
   <span id="f000138">each and all wished to hide their faces from the light and cover up their deep trouble in their own hearts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">Finally-hark!</span>
   <span id="f000140">A rich,</span>
   <span id="f000141">full strain of the divinest melody streamed forth from a remote part of the hall – the nightingale’s voice!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“Up!” shouted the king,</span>
   <span id="f000143">“let all the bells make proclamation to the people,</span>
   <span id="f000144">for the choice is made and we have not erred.</span>
   <span id="f000145">King,</span>
   <span id="f000146">dynasty,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and nation are saved.</span>
   <span id="f000148">From henceforth let the nightingale be honored throughout the land forever.</span>
   <span id="f000149">And publish it among all the people that whosoever shall insult a nightingale,</span>
   <span id="f000150">or injure it,</span>
   <span id="f000151">shall suffer death.</span>
   <span id="f000152">The king hath spoken.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">All that little world was drunk with joy.</span>
   <span id="f000154">The castle and the city blazed with bonfires all night long,</span>
   <span id="f000155">the people danced and drank and sang;</span>
   <span id="f000156">and the triumphant clamor of the bells never ceased.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">From that day the nightingale was a sacred bird.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Its song was heard in every house;</span>
   <span id="f000159">the poets wrote its praises;</span>
   <span id="f000160">the painters painted it;</span>
   <span id="f000161">its sculptured image adorned every arch and turret and fountain and public building.</span>
   <span id="f000162">It was even taken into the king’s councils;</span>
   <span id="f000163">and no grave matter of state was decided until the soothsayers had laid the thing before the state nightingale and translated to the ministry what it was that the bird had sung about it.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000164">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000165">The young king was very fond of the chase.</span>
   <span id="f000166">When the summer was come he rode forth with hawk and hound,</span>
   <span id="f000167">one day,</span>
   <span id="f000168">in a brilliant company of his nobles.</span>
   <span id="f000169">He got separated from them by and by,</span>
   <span id="f000170">in a great forest,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and took what he imagined a near cut,</span>
   <span id="f000172">to find them again;</span>
   <span id="f000173">but it was a mistake.</span>
   <span id="f000174">He rode on and on,</span>
   <span id="f000175">hopefully at first,</span>
   <span id="f000176">but with sinking courage finally.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Twilight came on,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and still he was plunging through a lonely and unknown land.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Then came a catastrophe.</span>
   <span id="f000180">In the dim light he forced his horse through a tangled thicket overhanging a steep and rocky declivity.</span>
   <span id="f000181">When horse and rider reached the bottom,</span>
   <span id="f000182">the former had a broken neck and the latter a broken leg.</span>
   <span id="f000183">The poor little king lay there suffering agonies of pain,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and each hour seemed a long month to him.</span>
   <span id="f000185">He kept his ear strained to hear any sound that might promise hope of rescue;</span>
   <span id="f000186">but he heard no voice,</span>
   <span id="f000187">no sound of horn or bay of hound.</span>
   <span id="f000188">So at last he gave up all hope,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000190">“Let death come,</span>
   <span id="f000191">for come it must.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">Just then the deep,</span>
   <span id="f000193">sweet song of a nightingale swept across the still wastes of the night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“Saved!” the king said.</span>
   <span id="f000195">“Saved!</span>
   <span id="f000196">It is the sacred bird,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and the prophecy is come true.</span>
   <span id="f000198">The gods themselves protected me from error in the choice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">He could hardly contain his joy;</span>
   <span id="f000200">he could not word his gratitude.</span>
   <span id="f000201">Every few moments now he thought he caught the sound of approaching succor.</span>
   <span id="f000202">But each time it was a disappointment;</span>
   <span id="f000203">no succor came.</span>
   <span id="f000204">The dull hours drifted on.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Still no help came – but still the sacred bird sang on.</span>
   <span id="f000206">He began to have misgivings about his choice,</span>
   <span id="f000207">but he stifled them.</span>
   <span id="f000208">Toward dawn the bird ceased.</span>
   <span id="f000209">The morning came,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and with it thirst and hunger;</span>
   <span id="f000211">but no succor.</span>
   <span id="f000212">The day waxed and waned.</span>
   <span id="f000213">At last the king cursed the nightingale.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">Immediately the song of the thrush came from out the wood.</span>
   <span id="f000215">The king said in his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000216">“This was the true-bird – my choice was false – succor will come now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">But it did not come.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Then he lay many hours insensible.</span>
   <span id="f000219">When he came to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000220">a linnet was singing.</span>
   <span id="f000221">He listened with apathy.</span>
   <span id="f000222">His faith was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000223">“These birds,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000224">“can bring no help;</span>
   <span id="f000225">I and my house and my people are doomed.” He turned him about to die;</span>
   <span id="f000226">for he was grown very feeble from hunger and thirst and suffering,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and felt that his end was near.</span>
   <span id="f000228">In truth,</span>
   <span id="f000229">he wanted to die,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and be released from pain.</span>
   <span id="f000231">For long hours he lay without thought or feeling or motion.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Then his senses returned.</span>
   <span id="f000233">The dawn of the third morning was breaking.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000235">the world seemed very beautiful to those worn eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Suddenly a great longing to live rose up in the lad’s heart,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and from his soul welled a deep and fervent prayer that Heaven would have mercy upon him and let him see his home and his friends once more.</span>
   <span id="f000238">In that instant a soft,</span>
   <span id="f000239">a faint,</span>
   <span id="f000240">a far-off sound,</span>
   <span id="f000241">but oh,</span>
   <span id="f000242">how inexpressibly sweet to his waiting ear,</span>
   <span id="f000243">came floating out of the distance:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“Waw…</span>
   <span id="f000245">he!</span>
   <span id="f000246">waw…</span>
   <span id="f000247">he!</span>
   <span id="f000248">Waw-he!</span>
   <span id="f000249">– waw-he!</span>
   <span id="f000250">– waw-he!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“That,</span>
   <span id="f000252">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000253">that song is sweeter,</span>
   <span id="f000254">a thousand times sweeter than the voice of the nightingale,</span>
   <span id="f000255">thrush,</span>
   <span id="f000256">or linnet,</span>
   <span id="f000257">for it brings not mere hope,</span>
   <span id="f000258">but certainty of succor;</span>
   <span id="f000259">and now,</span>
   <span id="f000260">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000261">am I saved!</span>
   <span id="f000262">The sacred singer has chosen itself,</span>
   <span id="f000263">as the oracle intended;</span>
   <span id="f000264">the prophecy is fulfilled,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and my life,</span>
   <span id="f000266">my house,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and my people are redeemed.</span>
   <span id="f000268">The ass shall be sacred from this day!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">The divine music grew nearer and nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000270">stronger – and stronger and ever sweeter and sweeter to the perishing sufferer’s ear.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Down the declivity the docile little donkey wandered,</span>
   <span id="f000272">cropping herbage and singing as he went;</span>
   <span id="f000273">and when at last he saw the dead horse and the wounded king,</span>
   <span id="f000274">he came and snuffed at them with simple and marveling curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000275">The king petted him,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and he knelt down as had been his wont when his little mistress desired to mount.</span>
   <span id="f000277">With great labor and pain the lad drew himself upon the creature’s back,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and held himself there by aid of the generous ears.</span>
   <span id="f000279">The ass went singing forth from the place and carried the king to the little peasant-maid’s hut.</span>
   <span id="f000280">She gave him her pallet for a bed,</span>
   <span id="f000281">refreshed him with goat’s milk,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and then flew to tell the great news to the first scouting-party of searchers she might meet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">The king got well.</span>
   <span id="f000284">His first act was to proclaim the sacredness and inviolability of the ass;</span>
   <span id="f000285">his second was to add this particular ass to his cabinet and make him chief minister of the crown;</span>
   <span id="f000286">his third was to have all the statues and effigies of nightingales throughout his kingdom destroyed,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and replaced by statues and effigies of the sacred donkey;</span>
   <span id="f000288">and,</span>
   <span id="f000289">his fourth was to announce that when the little peasant maid should reach her fifteenth year he would make her his queen and he kept his word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">Such is the legend.</span>
   <span id="f000291">This explains why the moldering image of the ass adorns all these old crumbling walls and arches;</span>
   <span id="f000292">and it explains why,</span>
   <span id="f000293">during many centuries,</span>
   <span id="f000294">an ass was always the chief minister in that royal cabinet,</span>
   <span id="f000295">just as is still the case in most cabinets to this day;</span>
   <span id="f000296">and it also explains why,</span>
   <span id="f000297">in that little kingdom,</span>
   <span id="f000298">during many centuries,</span>
   <span id="f000299">all great poems,</span>
   <span id="f000300">all great speeches,</span>
   <span id="f000301">all great books,</span>
   <span id="f000302">all public solemnities,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and all royal proclamations,</span>
   <span id="f000304">always began with these stirring words:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“Waw…</span>
   <span id="f000306">he!</span>
   <span id="f000307">waw…</span>
   <span id="f000308">he!</span>
   <span id="f000309">– waw he!</span>
   <span id="f000310">Waw-he!”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

