<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Speech on the Babies</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">AT THE BANQUET,</span>
   <span id="f000003">IN CHICAGO,</span>
   <span id="f000004">GIVEN BY THE ARMY OF THE TENNESSEE TO THEIR FIRST COMMANDER,</span>
   <span id="f000005">GENERAL U.</span>
   <span id="f000006">S.</span>
   <span id="f000007">GRANT,</span>
   <span id="f000008">NOVEMBER,</span>
   <span id="f000009">1879</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">The fifteenth regular toast was “The Babies – as they comfort us in our sorrows,</span>
   <span id="f000011">let us not forget them in our festivities.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000012">I like that.</span>
   <span id="f000013">We have not all had the good fortune to be ladies.</span>
   <span id="f000014">We have not all been generals,</span>
   <span id="f000015">or poets,</span>
   <span id="f000016">or statesmen;</span>
   <span id="f000017">but when the toast works down to the babies,</span>
   <span id="f000018">we stand on common ground.</span>
   <span id="f000019">It is a shame that for a thousand years the world’s banquets have utterly ignored the baby,</span>
   <span id="f000020">as if he didn’t amount to anything.</span>
   <span id="f000021">If you will stop and think a minute – if you will go back fifty or one hundred years to your early married life and recontemplate your first baby – you will remember that he amounted to a great deal,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and even something over.</span>
   <span id="f000023">You soldiers all know that when the little fellow arrived at family headquarters you had to hand in your resignation.</span>
   <span id="f000024">He took entire command.</span>
   <span id="f000025">You became his lackey,</span>
   <span id="f000026">his mere body-servant,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and you had to stand around,</span>
   <span id="f000028">too.</span>
   <span id="f000029">He was not a commander who made allowances for time,</span>
   <span id="f000030">distance,</span>
   <span id="f000031">weather,</span>
   <span id="f000032">or anything else.</span>
   <span id="f000033">You had to execute his order whether it was possible or not.</span>
   <span id="f000034">And there was only one form of marching in his manual of tactics,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and that was the double-quick.</span>
   <span id="f000036">He treated you with every sort of insolence and disrespect,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and the bravest of you didn’t dare to say a word.</span>
   <span id="f000038">You could face the death-storm at Donelson and Vicksburg,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and give back blow for blow;</span>
   <span id="f000040">but when he clawed your whiskers,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and pulled your hair,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and twisted your nose,</span>
   <span id="f000043">you had to take it.</span>
   <span id="f000044">When the thunders of war were sounding in your ears you set your faces toward the batteries,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and advanced with steady tread;</span>
   <span id="f000046">but when he turned on the terrors of his war-whoop you advanced in the other direction,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and mighty glad of the chance,</span>
   <span id="f000048">too.</span>
   <span id="f000049">When he called for soothing-syrup,</span>
   <span id="f000050">did you venture to throw out any side remarks about certain services being unbecoming an officer and a gentleman?</span>
   <span id="f000051">No.</span>
   <span id="f000052">You got up and got it.</span>
   <span id="f000053">When he ordered his pap-bottle and it was not warm,</span>
   <span id="f000054">did you talk back?</span>
   <span id="f000055">Not you.</span>
   <span id="f000056">You went to work and warmed it.</span>
   <span id="f000057">You even descended so far in your menial office as to take a suck at that warm,</span>
   <span id="f000058">insipid stuff yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000059">to see if it was right – three parts water to one of milk,</span>
   <span id="f000060">a touch of sugar to modify the colic,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and a drop of peppermint to kill those hiccoughs.</span>
   <span id="f000062">I can taste that stuff yet.</span>
   <span id="f000063">And how many things you learned as you went along!</span>
   <span id="f000064">Sentimental young folks still take stock in that beautiful old saying that when the baby smiles in his sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000065">it is because the angels are whispering to him.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Very pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000067">but too thin – simply wind on the stomach,</span>
   <span id="f000068">my friends.</span>
   <span id="f000069">If the baby proposed to take a walk at his usual hour,</span>
   <span id="f000070">two o’clock in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000071">didn’t you rise up promptly and remark,</span>
   <span id="f000072">with a mental addition which would not improve a Sunday-school book much,</span>
   <span id="f000073">that that was the very thing you were about to propose yourself?</span>
   <span id="f000074">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000075">you were under good discipline,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and as you went fluttering up and down the room in your undress uniform,</span>
   <span id="f000077">you not only prattled undignified baby-talk,</span>
   <span id="f000078">but even tuned up your martial voices and tried to sing!</span>
   <span id="f000079">– “Rock-a-by baby in the treetop,” for instance.</span>
   <span id="f000080">What a spectacle for an Army of the Tennessee!</span>
   <span id="f000081">And what an affliction for the neighbors,</span>
   <span id="f000082">too;</span>
   <span id="f000083">for it is not everybody within a mile around that likes military music at three in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000084">And when you had been keeping this sort of thing up two or three hours,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and your little velvet-head intimated that nothing suited him like exercise and noise,</span>
   <span id="f000086">what did you do?</span>
   <span id="f000087">[“Go on!”] You simply went on until you dropped in the last ditch.</span>
   <span id="f000088">The idea that a baby doesn’t amount to anything!</span>
   <span id="f000089">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000090">one baby is just a house and a front yard full by itself.</span>
   <span id="f000091">One baby can furnish more business than you and your whole Interior Department can attend to.</span>
   <span id="f000092">He is enterprising,</span>
   <span id="f000093">irrepressible,</span>
   <span id="f000094">brimful of lawless activities.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Do what you please,</span>
   <span id="f000096">you can’t make him stay on the reservation.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Sufficient unto the day is one baby.</span>
   <span id="f000098">As long as you are in your right mind don’t you ever pray for twins.</span>
   <span id="f000099">Twins amount to a permanent riot.</span>
   <span id="f000100">And there ain’t any real difference between triplets and an insurrection.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000102">it was high time for a toast-master to recognize the importance of the babies.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Think what is in store for the present crop!</span>
   <span id="f000104">Fifty years from now we shall all be dead,</span>
   <span id="f000105">I trust,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and then this flag,</span>
   <span id="f000107">if it still survive</span>
   <span id="f000108">(and let us hope it may),</span>
   <span id="f000109">will be floating over a Republic numbering 200,000,000 souls,</span>
   <span id="f000110">according to the settled laws of our increase.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Our present schooner of State will have grown into a political leviathan – a Great Eastern.</span>
   <span id="f000112">The cradled babies of to-day will be on deck.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Let them be well trained,</span>
   <span id="f000114">for we are going to leave a big contract on their hands.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Among the three or four million cradles now rocking in the land are some which this nation would preserve for ages as sacred things,</span>
   <span id="f000116">if we could know which ones they are.</span>
   <span id="f000117">In one of those cradles the unconscious Farragut of the future is at this moment teething – think of it!</span>
   <span id="f000118">– and putting in a world of dead earnest,</span>
   <span id="f000119">unarticulated,</span>
   <span id="f000120">but perfectly justifiable profanity over it,</span>
   <span id="f000121">too.</span>
   <span id="f000122">In another the future renowned astronomer is blinking at the shining Milky Way with but a languid interest – poor little chap!</span>
   <span id="f000123">– and wondering what has become of that other one they call the wet-nurse.</span>
   <span id="f000124">In another the future great historian is lying – and doubtless will continue to lie until his earthly mission is ended.</span>
   <span id="f000125">In another the future President is busying himself with no profounder problem of state than what the mischief has become of his hair so early;</span>
   <span id="f000126">and in a mighty array of other cradles there are now some 60,000 future office-seekers,</span>
   <span id="f000127">getting ready to furnish him occasion to grapple with that same old problem a second time.</span>
   <span id="f000128">And in still one more cradle,</span>
   <span id="f000129">somewhere under the flag,</span>
   <span id="f000130">the future illustrious commander-in-chief of the American armies is so little burdened with his approaching grandeurs and responsibilities as to be giving his whole strategic mind at this moment to trying to find out some way to get his big toe into his mouth – an achievement which,</span>
   <span id="f000131">meaning no disrespect,</span>
   <span id="f000132">the illustrious guest of this evening turned his entire attention to some fifty-six years ago;</span>
   <span id="f000133">and if the child is but a prophecy of the man,</span>
   <span id="f000134">there are mighty few who will doubt that he succeeded.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

