<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Speech on the Weather</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">At the New England Society’s seventy-first annual dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000003">New York City</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000004">The next toast was:</span>
   <span id="f000005">“The Oldest Inhabitant – The Weather of New England.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000006">Who can lose it and forget it?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000007">Who can have it and regret it?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000008">Be interposer ’twixt us Twain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000009">Merchant of Venice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">To this Samuel L.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Clemens</span>
   <span id="f000012">(Mark Twain)</span>
   <span id="f000013">replied as follows:</span>
   <span id="f000014">–</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000015">I reverently believe that the Maker who made us all makes everything in New England but the weather.</span>
   <span id="f000016">I don’t know who makes that,</span>
   <span id="f000017">but I think it must be raw apprentices in the weather-clerk’s factory who experiment and learn how,</span>
   <span id="f000018">in New England,</span>
   <span id="f000019">for board and clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and then are promoted to make weather for countries that require a good article,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and will take their custom elsewhere if they don’t get it.</span>
   <span id="f000022">There is a sumptuous variety about the New England weather that compels the stranger’s admiration – and regret.</span>
   <span id="f000023">The weather is always doing something there;</span>
   <span id="f000024">always attending strictly to business;</span>
   <span id="f000025">always getting up new designs and trying them on the people to see how they will go.</span>
   <span id="f000026">But it gets through more business in spring than in any other season.</span>
   <span id="f000027">In the spring I have counted one hundred and thirty-six different kinds of weather inside of four-and-twenty hours.</span>
   <span id="f000028">It was I that made the fame and fortune of that man that had that marvelous collection of weather on exhibition at the Centennial,</span>
   <span id="f000029">that so astounded the foreigners.</span>
   <span id="f000030">He was going to travel all over the world and get specimens from all the climes.</span>
   <span id="f000031">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000032">“Don’t you do it;</span>
   <span id="f000033">you come to New England on a favorable spring day.” I told him what we could do in the way of style,</span>
   <span id="f000034">variety,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and quantity.</span>
   <span id="f000036">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000037">he came and he made his collection in four days.</span>
   <span id="f000038">As to variety,</span>
   <span id="f000039">why,</span>
   <span id="f000040">he confessed that he got hundreds of kinds of weather that he had never heard of before.</span>
   <span id="f000041">And as to quantity – well,</span>
   <span id="f000042">after he had picked out and discarded all that was blemished in any way,</span>
   <span id="f000043">he not only had weather enough,</span>
   <span id="f000044">but weather to spare;</span>
   <span id="f000045">weather to hire out;</span>
   <span id="f000046">weather to sell;</span>
   <span id="f000047">to deposit;</span>
   <span id="f000048">weather to invest;</span>
   <span id="f000049">weather to give to the poor.</span>
   <span id="f000050">The people of New England are by nature patient and forbearing,</span>
   <span id="f000051">but there are some things which they will not stand.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Every year they kill a lot of poets for writing about “Beautiful Spring.” These are generally casual visitors,</span>
   <span id="f000053">who bring their notions of spring from somewhere else,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and cannot,</span>
   <span id="f000055">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000056">know how the natives feel about spring.</span>
   <span id="f000057">And so the first thing they know the opportunity to inquire how they feel has permanently gone by.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Old Probabilities has a mighty reputation for accurate prophecy,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and thoroughly well deserves it.</span>
   <span id="f000060">You take up the paper and observe how crisply and confidently he checks off what to-day’s weather is going to be on the Pacific,</span>
   <span id="f000061">down South,</span>
   <span id="f000062">in the Middle States,</span>
   <span id="f000063">in the Wisconsin region.</span>
   <span id="f000064">See him sail along in the joy and pride of his power till he gets to New England,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and then see his tail drop.</span>
   <span id="f000066">He doesn’t know what the weather is going to be in New England.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000068">he mulls over it,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and by and by he gets out something about like this:</span>
   <span id="f000070">Probable northeast to southwest winds,</span>
   <span id="f000071">varying to the southward and westward and eastward,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and points between,</span>
   <span id="f000073">high and low barometer swapping around from place to place;</span>
   <span id="f000074">probable areas of rain,</span>
   <span id="f000075">snow,</span>
   <span id="f000076">hail,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and drought,</span>
   <span id="f000078">succeeded or preceded by earthquakes,</span>
   <span id="f000079">with thunder and lightning.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Then he jots down this postscript from his wandering mind,</span>
   <span id="f000081">to cover accidents:</span>
   <span id="f000082">“But it is possible that the program may be wholly changed in the mean time.” Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000083">one of the brightest gems in the New England weather is the dazzling uncertainty of it.</span>
   <span id="f000084">There is only one thing certain about it:</span>
   <span id="f000085">you are certain there is going to be plenty of it – a perfect grand review;</span>
   <span id="f000086">but you never can tell which end of the procession is going to move first.</span>
   <span id="f000087">You fix up for the drought;</span>
   <span id="f000088">you leave your umbrella in the house and sally out,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and two to one you get drowned.</span>
   <span id="f000090">You make up your mind that the earthquake is due;</span>
   <span id="f000091">you stand from under,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and take hold of something to steady yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and the first thing you know you get struck by lightning.</span>
   <span id="f000094">These are great disappointments;</span>
   <span id="f000095">but they can’t be helped.</span>
   <span id="f000096">The lightning there is peculiar;</span>
   <span id="f000097">it is so convincing,</span>
   <span id="f000098">that when it strikes a thing it doesn’t leave enough of that thing behind for you to tell whether – Well,</span>
   <span id="f000099">you’d think it was something valuable,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and a Congressman had been there.</span>
   <span id="f000101">And the thunder.</span>
   <span id="f000102">When the thunder begins to merely tune up and scrape and saw,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and key up the instruments for the performance,</span>
   <span id="f000104">strangers say,</span>
   <span id="f000105">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000106">what awful thunder you have here!” But when the baton is raised and the real concert begins,</span>
   <span id="f000107">you’ll find that stranger down in the cellar with his head in the ash-barrel.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Now as to the size of the weather in New England lengthways,</span>
   <span id="f000109">I mean.</span>
   <span id="f000110">It is utterly disproportioned to the size of that little country.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Half the time,</span>
   <span id="f000112">when it is packed as full as it can stick,</span>
   <span id="f000113">you will see that New England weather sticking out beyond the edges and projecting around hundreds and hundreds of miles over the neighboring states.</span>
   <span id="f000114">She can’t hold a tenth part of her weather.</span>
   <span id="f000115">You can see cracks all about where she has strained herself trying to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000116">I could speak volumes about the inhuman perversity of the New England weather,</span>
   <span id="f000117">but I will give but a single specimen.</span>
   <span id="f000118">I like to hear rain on a tin roof.</span>
   <span id="f000119">So I covered part of my roof with tin,</span>
   <span id="f000120">with an eye to that luxury.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000122">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000123">do you think it ever rains on that tin?</span>
   <span id="f000124">No,</span>
   <span id="f000125">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000126">skips it every time.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Mind,</span>
   <span id="f000128">in this speech I have been trying merely to do honor to the New England weather – no language could do it justice.</span>
   <span id="f000129">But,</span>
   <span id="f000130">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000131">there is at least one or two things about that weather</span>
   <span id="f000132">(or,</span>
   <span id="f000133">if you please,</span>
   <span id="f000134">effects produced,</span>
   <span id="f000135">by it)</span>
   <span id="f000136">which we residents would not like to part with.</span>
   <span id="f000137">If we hadn’t our bewitching autumn foliage,</span>
   <span id="f000138">we should still have to credit the weather with one feature which compensates for all its bullying vagaries – the ice-storm:</span>
   <span id="f000139">when a leafless tree is clothed with ice from the bottom to the top – ice that is as bright and clear as crystal;</span>
   <span id="f000140">when every bough and twig is strung with ice-beads,</span>
   <span id="f000141">frozen dewdrops,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and the whole tree sparkles cold and white,</span>
   <span id="f000143">like the Shah of Persia’s diamond plume.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Then the wind waves the branches and the sun comes out and turns all those myriads of beads and drops to prisms that glow and burn and flash with all manner of colored fires,</span>
   <span id="f000145">which change and change again with inconceivable rapidity from blue to red,</span>
   <span id="f000146">from red to green,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and green to gold – the tree becomes a spraying fountain,</span>
   <span id="f000148">a very explosion of dazzling jewels;</span>
   <span id="f000149">and it stands there the acme,</span>
   <span id="f000150">the climax,</span>
   <span id="f000151">the supremest possibility in art or nature,</span>
   <span id="f000152">of bewildering,</span>
   <span id="f000153">intoxicating,</span>
   <span id="f000154">intolerable magnificence.</span>
   <span id="f000155">One cannot make the words too strong.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

