<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track13">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p014.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Concerning the American Language</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">[Being part of a chapter which was crowded out of “A Tramp Abroad.” – M.T.]</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000003">There was as Englishman in our compartment,</span>
   <span id="f000004">and he complimented me on – on what?</span>
   <span id="f000005">But you would never guess.</span>
   <span id="f000006">He complimented me on my English.</span>
   <span id="f000007">He said Americans in general did not speak the English language as correctly as I did.</span>
   <span id="f000008">I said I was obliged to him for his compliment,</span>
   <span id="f000009">since I knew he meant it for one,</span>
   <span id="f000010">but that I was not fairly entitled to it,</span>
   <span id="f000011">for I did not speak English at all – I only spoke American.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">He laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and said it was a distinction without a difference.</span>
   <span id="f000014">I said no,</span>
   <span id="f000015">the difference was not prodigious,</span>
   <span id="f000016">but still it was considerable.</span>
   <span id="f000017">We fell into a friendly dispute over the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000018">I put my case as well as I could,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000020">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">“The languages were identical several generations ago,</span>
   <span id="f000022">but our changed conditions and the spread of our people far to the south and far to the west have made many alterations in our pronunciation,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and have introduced new words among us and changed the meanings of many old ones.</span>
   <span id="f000024">English people talk through their noses;</span>
   <span id="f000025">we do not.</span>
   <span id="f000026">We say know,</span>
   <span id="f000027">English people say nao;</span>
   <span id="f000028">we say cow,</span>
   <span id="f000029">the Briton says kaow;</span>
   <span id="f000030">we – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000032">come!</span>
   <span id="f000033">that is pure Yankee;</span>
   <span id="f000034">everybody knows that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000036">it is pure Yankee;</span>
   <span id="f000037">that is true.</span>
   <span id="f000038">One cannot hear it in America outside of the little corner called New England,</span>
   <span id="f000039">which is Yankee land.</span>
   <span id="f000040">The English themselves planted it there,</span>
   <span id="f000041">two hundred and fifty years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and there it remains;</span>
   <span id="f000043">it has never spread.</span>
   <span id="f000044">But England talks through her nose yet;</span>
   <span id="f000045">the Londoner and the backwoods New-Englander pronounce ’know’ and ’cow’ alike,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and then the Briton unconsciously satirizes himself by making fun of the Yankee’s pronunciation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">We argued this point at some length;</span>
   <span id="f000048">nobody won;</span>
   <span id="f000049">but no matter,</span>
   <span id="f000050">the fact remains Englishmen say nao and kaow for “know” and “cow,” and that is what the rustic inhabitant of a very small section of America does.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“You conferred your ’a’ upon New England,</span>
   <span id="f000052">too,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and there it remains;</span>
   <span id="f000054">it has not traveled out of the narrow limits of those six little states in all these two hundred and fifty years.</span>
   <span id="f000055">All England uses it,</span>
   <span id="f000056">New England’s small population – say four millions – use it,</span>
   <span id="f000057">but we have forty-five millions who do not use it.</span>
   <span id="f000058">You say ’glahs of wawtah,’ so does New England;</span>
   <span id="f000059">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000060">New England says ’glahs.’ America at large flattens the ’a’,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and says ’glass of water.’ These sounds are pleasanter than yours;</span>
   <span id="f000062">you may think they are not right – well,</span>
   <span id="f000063">in English they are not right,</span>
   <span id="f000064">but in ’American’ they are.</span>
   <span id="f000065">You say ’flahsk’ and ’bahsket,’ and ’jackahss’;</span>
   <span id="f000066">we say ’flask,’ ’basket,’ ’jackass’ – sounding the ’a’ as it is in ’tallow,’ ’fallow,’ and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Up to as late as 1847 Mr.&#160;Webster’s Dictionary had the impudence to still pronounce ’basket’ bahsket,</span>
   <span id="f000068">when he knew that outside of his little New England all America shortened the ’a’ and paid no attention to his English broadening of it.</span>
   <span id="f000069">However,</span>
   <span id="f000070">it called itself an English Dictionary,</span>
   <span id="f000071">so it was proper enough that it should stick to English forms,</span>
   <span id="f000072">perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000073">It still calls itself an English Dictionary today,</span>
   <span id="f000074">but it has quietly ceased to pronounce ’basket’ as if it were spelt ’bahsket.’ In the American language the ’h’ is respected;</span>
   <span id="f000075">the ’h’ is not dropped or added improperly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“The same is the case in England – I mean among the educated classes,</span>
   <span id="f000077">of course.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000079">that is true;</span>
   <span id="f000080">but a nation’s language is a very large matter.</span>
   <span id="f000081">It is not simply a manner of speech obtaining among the educated handful;</span>
   <span id="f000082">the manner obtaining among the vast uneducated multitude must be considered also.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Your uneducated masses speak English,</span>
   <span id="f000084">you will not deny that;</span>
   <span id="f000085">our uneducated masses speak American it won’t be fair for you to deny that,</span>
   <span id="f000086">for you can see,</span>
   <span id="f000087">yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000088">that when your stable-boy says,</span>
   <span id="f000089">’It isn’t the ’unting that ’urts the ’orse,</span>
   <span id="f000090">but the ’ammer,</span>
   <span id="f000091">’ammer,</span>
   <span id="f000092">’ammer on the ’ard ’ighway,’ and our stable-boy makes the same remark without suffocating a single h,</span>
   <span id="f000093">these two people are manifestly talking two different languages.</span>
   <span id="f000094">But if the signs are to be trusted,</span>
   <span id="f000095">even your educated classes used to drop the ’h.’ They say humble,</span>
   <span id="f000096">now,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and heroic,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and historic etc.,</span>
   <span id="f000099">but I judge that they used to drop those h’s because your writers still keep up the fashion of putting an AN before those words instead of A.</span>
   <span id="f000100">This is what Mr.&#160;Darwin might call a ’rudimentary’ sign that as an was justifiable once,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and useful when your educated classes used to say ’umble,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and ’eroic,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and ’istorical.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Correct writers of the American language do not put an before those words.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">The English gentleman had something to say upon this matter,</span>
   <span id="f000106">but never mind what he said – I’m not arguing his case.</span>
   <span id="f000107">I have him at a disadvantage,</span>
   <span id="f000108">now.</span>
   <span id="f000109">I proceeded:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“In England you encourage an orator by exclaiming,</span>
   <span id="f000111">’H’yaah!</span>
   <span id="f000112">h’yaah!’ We pronounce it heer in some sections,</span>
   <span id="f000113">’h’yer’ in others,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and so on;</span>
   <span id="f000115">but our whites do not say ’h’yaah,’ pronouncing the a’s like the a in ah.</span>
   <span id="f000116">I have heard English ladies say ’don’t you’ – making two separate and distinct words of it;</span>
   <span id="f000117">your Mr.&#160;Burnand has satirized it.</span>
   <span id="f000118">But we always say ’dontchu.’ This is much better.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Your ladies say,</span>
   <span id="f000120">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000121">it’s oful nice!’ Ours say,</span>
   <span id="f000122">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000123">it’s awful nice!’ We say,</span>
   <span id="f000124">’Four hundred,’ you say ’For’ – as in the word or.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Your clergymen speak of ’the Lawd,’ ours of ’the Lord’;</span>
   <span id="f000126">yours speak of ’the gawds of the heathen,’ ours of ’the gods of the heathen.’ When you are exhausted,</span>
   <span id="f000127">you say you are ’knocked up.’ We don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000128">When you say you will do a thing ’directly,’ you mean ’immediately’;</span>
   <span id="f000129">in the American language – generally speaking – the word signifies ’after a little.’ When you say ’clever,’ you mean ’capable’;</span>
   <span id="f000130">with us the word used to mean ’accommodating,’ but I don’t know what it means now.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Your word ’stout’ means ’fleshy’;</span>
   <span id="f000132">our word ’stout’ usually means ’strong.’ Your words ’gentleman’ and ’lady’ have a very restricted meaning;</span>
   <span id="f000133">with us they include the barmaid,</span>
   <span id="f000134">butcher,</span>
   <span id="f000135">burglar,</span>
   <span id="f000136">harlot,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and horse-thief.</span>
   <span id="f000138">You say,</span>
   <span id="f000139">’I haven’t got any stockings on,’ ’I haven’t got any memory,’ ’I haven’t got any money in my purse;</span>
   <span id="f000140">we usually say,</span>
   <span id="f000141">’I haven’t any stockings on,’ ’I haven’t any memory!’ ’I haven’t any money in my purse.’ You say ’out of window’;</span>
   <span id="f000142">we always put in a the.</span>
   <span id="f000143">If one asks ’How old is that man?’ the Briton answers,</span>
   <span id="f000144">’He will be about forty’;</span>
   <span id="f000145">in the American language we should say,</span>
   <span id="f000146">’He is about forty.’ However,</span>
   <span id="f000147">I won’t tire you,</span>
   <span id="f000148">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000149">but if I wanted to,</span>
   <span id="f000150">I could pile up differences here until I not only convinced you that English and American are separate languages,</span>
   <span id="f000151">but that when I speak my native tongue in its utmost purity an Englishman can’t understand me at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“I don’t wish to flatter you,</span>
   <span id="f000153">but it is about all I can do to understand you now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">That was a very pretty compliment,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and it put us on the pleasantest terms directly – I use the word in the English sense.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">[Later – 1882.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Esthetes in many of our schools are now beginning to teach the pupils to broaden the ’a,’ and to say “don’t you,” in the elegant foreign way.]</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track13">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p014.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

