<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track14">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Rogers</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">This Man Rogers happened upon me and introduced himself at the town of – -,</span>
   <span id="f000003">in the South of England,</span>
   <span id="f000004">where I stayed awhile.</span>
   <span id="f000005">His stepfather had married a distant relative of mine who was afterward hanged;</span>
   <span id="f000006">and so he seemed to think a blood relationship existed between us.</span>
   <span id="f000007">He came in every day and sat down and talked.</span>
   <span id="f000008">Of all the bland,</span>
   <span id="f000009">serene human curiosities I ever saw,</span>
   <span id="f000010">I think he was the chiefest.</span>
   <span id="f000011">He desired to look at my new chimney-pot hat.</span>
   <span id="f000012">I was very willing,</span>
   <span id="f000013">for I thought he would notice the name of the great Oxford Street hatter in it,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and respect me accordingly.</span>
   <span id="f000015">But he turned it about with a sort of grave compassion,</span>
   <span id="f000016">pointed out two or three blemishes,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and said that I,</span>
   <span id="f000018">being so recently arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000019">could not be expected to know where to supply myself.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Said he would send me the address of his hatter.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Then he said,</span>
   <span id="f000022">“Pardon me,” and proceeded to cut a neat circle of red tissue paper;</span>
   <span id="f000023">daintily notched the edges of it;</span>
   <span id="f000024">took the mucilage and pasted it in my hat so as to cover the manufacturer’s name.</span>
   <span id="f000025">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000026">“No one will know now where you got it.</span>
   <span id="f000027">I will send you a hat-tip of my hatter,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and you can paste it over this tissue circle.” It was the calmest,</span>
   <span id="f000029">coolest thing – I never admired a man so much in my life.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Mind,</span>
   <span id="f000031">he did this while his own hat sat offensively near our noses,</span>
   <span id="f000032">on the table – an ancient extinguisher of the “slouch” pattern,</span>
   <span id="f000033">limp and shapeless with age,</span>
   <span id="f000034">discolored by vicissitudes of the weather,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and banded by an equator of bear’s grease that had stewed through.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">Another time he examined my coat.</span>
   <span id="f000037">I had no terrors,</span>
   <span id="f000038">for over my tailor’s door was the legend,</span>
   <span id="f000039">“By Special Appointment Tailor to H.</span>
   <span id="f000040">R.</span>
   <span id="f000041">H.</span>
   <span id="f000042">the Prince of Wales,” etc.</span>
   <span id="f000043">I did not know at the time that the most of the tailor shops had the same sign out,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and that whereas it takes nine tailors to make an ordinary man,</span>
   <span id="f000045">it takes a hundred and fifty to make a prince.</span>
   <span id="f000046">He was full of compassion for my coat.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Wrote down the address of his tailor for me.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Did not tell me to mention my nom de plume and the tailor would put his best work on my garment,</span>
   <span id="f000049">as complimentary people sometimes do,</span>
   <span id="f000050">but said his tailor would hardly trouble himself for an unknown person</span>
   <span id="f000051">(unknown person,</span>
   <span id="f000052">when I thought I was so celebrated in England!</span>
   <span id="f000053">– that was the cruelest cut),</span>
   <span id="f000054">but cautioned me to mention his name,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and it would be all right.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Thinking to be facetious,</span>
   <span id="f000057">I said:</span>
   <span id="f000058">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“But he might sit up all night and injure his health.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000061">let him,” said Rogers;</span>
   <span id="f000062">“I’ve done enough for him,</span>
   <span id="f000063">for him to show some appreciation of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">I might as well have tried to disconcert a mummy with my facetiousness.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Said Rogers:</span>
   <span id="f000066">“I get all my coats there – they’re the only coats fit to be seen in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">I made one more attempt.</span>
   <span id="f000068">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000069">“I wish you had brought one with you – I would like to look at it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“Bless your heart,</span>
   <span id="f000071">haven’t I got one on?</span>
   <span id="f000072">– this article is Morgan’s make.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">I examined it.</span>
   <span id="f000074">The coat had been bought ready-made,</span>
   <span id="f000075">of a Chatham Street Jew,</span>
   <span id="f000076">without any question – about 1848.</span>
   <span id="f000077">It probably cost four dollars when it was new.</span>
   <span id="f000078">It was ripped,</span>
   <span id="f000079">it was frayed,</span>
   <span id="f000080">it was napless and greasy.</span>
   <span id="f000081">I could not resist showing him where it was ripped.</span>
   <span id="f000082">It so affected him that I was almost sorry I had done it.</span>
   <span id="f000083">First he seemed plunged into a bottomless abyss of grief.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Then he roused himself,</span>
   <span id="f000085">made a feint with his hands as if waving off the pity of a nation,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and said – with what seemed to me a manufactured emotion – “No matter;</span>
   <span id="f000087">no matter;</span>
   <span id="f000088">don’t mind me;</span>
   <span id="f000089">do not bother about it.</span>
   <span id="f000090">I can get another.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">When he was thoroughly restored,</span>
   <span id="f000092">so that he could examine the rip and command his feelings,</span>
   <span id="f000093">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000094">ah,</span>
   <span id="f000095">now he understood it – his servant must have done it while dressing him that morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">His servant!</span>
   <span id="f000097">There was something awe-inspiring in effrontery like this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Nearly every day he interested himself in some article of my clothing.</span>
   <span id="f000099">One would hardly have expected this sort of infatuation in a man who always wore the same suit,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and it a suit that seemed coeval with the Conquest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">It was an unworthy ambition,</span>
   <span id="f000102">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000103">but I did wish I could make this man admire something about me or something I did – you would have felt the same way.</span>
   <span id="f000104">I saw my opportunity:</span>
   <span id="f000105">I was about to return to London,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and had “listed” my soiled linen for the wash.</span>
   <span id="f000107">It made quite an imposing mountain in the corner of the room – fifty-four pieces.</span>
   <span id="f000108">I hoped he would fancy it was the accumulation of a single week.</span>
   <span id="f000109">I took up the wash-list,</span>
   <span id="f000110">as if to see that it was all right,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and then tossed it on the table,</span>
   <span id="f000112">with pretended forgetfulness.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Sure enough,</span>
   <span id="f000114">he took it up and ran his eye along down to the grand total.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Then he said,</span>
   <span id="f000116">“You get off easy,” and laid it down again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">His gloves were the saddest ruin,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but he told me where I could get some like them.</span>
   <span id="f000119">His shoes would hardly hold walnuts without leaking,</span>
   <span id="f000120">but he liked to put his feet up on the mantelpiece and contemplate them.</span>
   <span id="f000121">He wore a dim glass breastpin,</span>
   <span id="f000122">which he called a “morphylitic diamond” – whatever that may mean – and said only two of them had ever been found – the Emperor of China had the other one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">Afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000124">in London,</span>
   <span id="f000125">it was a pleasure to me to see this fantastic vagabond come marching into the lobby of the hotel in his grand-ducal way,</span>
   <span id="f000126">for he always had some new imaginary grandeur to develop – there was nothing stale about him but his clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000127">If he addressed me when strangers were about,</span>
   <span id="f000128">he always raised his voice a little and called me “Sir Richard,” or “General,” or “Your Lordship” – and when people began to stare and look deferential,</span>
   <span id="f000129">he would fall to inquiring in a casual way why I disappointed the Duke of Argyll the night before;</span>
   <span id="f000130">and then remind me of our engagement at the Duke of Westminster’s for the following day.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I think that for the time being these things were realities to him.</span>
   <span id="f000132">He once came and invited me to go with him and spend the evening with the Earl of Warwick at his town house.</span>
   <span id="f000133">I said I had received no formal invitation.</span>
   <span id="f000134">He said that that was of no consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000135">the Earl had no formalities for him or his friends.</span>
   <span id="f000136">I asked if I could go just as I was.</span>
   <span id="f000137">He said no,</span>
   <span id="f000138">that would hardly do;</span>
   <span id="f000139">evening dress was requisite at night in any gentleman’s house.</span>
   <span id="f000140">He said he would wait while I dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and then we would go to his apartments and I could take a bottle of champagne and a cigar while he dressed.</span>
   <span id="f000142">I was very willing to see how this enterprise would turn out,</span>
   <span id="f000143">so I dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and we started to his lodgings.</span>
   <span id="f000145">He said if I didn’t mind we would walk.</span>
   <span id="f000146">So we tramped some four miles through the mud and fog,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and finally found his “apartments”;</span>
   <span id="f000148">they consisted of a single room over a barber’s shop in a back street.</span>
   <span id="f000149">Two chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000150">a small table,</span>
   <span id="f000151">an ancient valise,</span>
   <span id="f000152">a wash-basin and pitcher</span>
   <span id="f000153">(both on the floor in a corner),</span>
   <span id="f000154">an unmade bed,</span>
   <span id="f000155">a fragment of a looking-glass,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and a flower-pot,</span>
   <span id="f000157">with a perishing little rose geranium in it,</span>
   <span id="f000158">which he called a century plant,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and said it had not bloomed now for upward of two centuries – given to him by the late Lord Palmerston –</span>
   <span id="f000160">(been offered a prodigious sum for it)</span>
   <span id="f000161">– these were the contents of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Also a brass candlestick and a part of a candle.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Rogers lit the candle,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and told me to sit down and make myself at home.</span>
   <span id="f000165">He said he hoped I was thirsty,</span>
   <span id="f000166">because he would surprise my palate with an article of champagne that seldom got into a commoner’s system;</span>
   <span id="f000167">or would I prefer sherry,</span>
   <span id="f000168">or port?</span>
   <span id="f000169">Said he had port in bottles that were swathed in stratified cobwebs,</span>
   <span id="f000170">every stratum representing a generation.</span>
   <span id="f000171">And as for his cigars – well,</span>
   <span id="f000172">I should judge of them myself.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Then he put his head out at the door and called:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“Sackville!” No answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“Hi-Sackville!” No answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“Now what the devil can have become of that butler?</span>
   <span id="f000177">I never allow a servant to – Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000178">confound that idiot,</span>
   <span id="f000179">he’s got the keys.</span>
   <span id="f000180">Can’t get into the other rooms without the keys.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">(I was just wondering at his intrepidity in still keeping up the delusion of the champagne,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and trying to imagine how he was going to get out of the difficulty.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">Now he stopped calling Sackville and began to call “Anglesy.” But Anglesy didn’t come.</span>
   <span id="f000184">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000185">“This is the second time that that equerry has been absent without leave.</span>
   <span id="f000186">To-morrow I’ll discharge him.” Now he began to whoop for “Thomas,” but Thomas didn’t answer.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Then for “Theodore,” but no Theodore replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000189">I give it up,” said Rogers.</span>
   <span id="f000190">“The servants never expect me at this hour,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and so they’re all off on a lark.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Might get along without the equerry and the page,</span>
   <span id="f000193">but can’t have any wine or cigars without the butler,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and can’t dress without my valet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">I offered to help him dress,</span>
   <span id="f000196">but he would not hear of it;</span>
   <span id="f000197">and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000198">he said he would not feel comfortable unless dressed by a practised hand.</span>
   <span id="f000199">However,</span>
   <span id="f000200">he finally concluded that he was such old friends with the Earl that it would not make any difference how he was dressed.</span>
   <span id="f000201">So we took a cab,</span>
   <span id="f000202">he gave the driver some directions,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and we started.</span>
   <span id="f000204">By and by we stopped before a large house and got out.</span>
   <span id="f000205">I never had seen this man with a collar on.</span>
   <span id="f000206">He now stepped under a lamp and got a venerable paper collar out of his coat pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000207">along with a hoary cravat,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and put them on.</span>
   <span id="f000209">He ascended the stoop,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and entered.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Presently he reappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000212">descended rapidly,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“Come – quick!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">We hurried away,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and turned the corner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“Now we’re safe,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and took off his collar and cravat and returned them to his pocket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">“Made a mighty narrow escape,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">“How?” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">“B’ George,</span>
   <span id="f000222">the Countess was there!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000224">what of that?</span>
   <span id="f000225">– don’t she know you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“Know me?</span>
   <span id="f000227">Absolutely worships me.</span>
   <span id="f000228">I just did happen to catch a glimpse of her before she saw me – and out I shot.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Haven’t seen her for two months – to rush in on her without any warning might have been fatal.</span>
   <span id="f000230">She could not have stood it.</span>
   <span id="f000231">I didn’t know she was in town – thought she was at the castle.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Let me lean on you – just a moment – there;</span>
   <span id="f000233">now I am better – thank you;</span>
   <span id="f000234">thank you ever so much.</span>
   <span id="f000235">Lord bless me,</span>
   <span id="f000236">what an escape!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">So I never got to call on the Earl,</span>
   <span id="f000238">after all.</span>
   <span id="f000239">But I marked the house for future reference.</span>
   <span id="f000240">It proved to be an ordinary family hotel,</span>
   <span id="f000241">with about a thousand plebeians roosting in it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">In most things Rogers was by no means a fool.</span>
   <span id="f000243">In some things it was plain enough that he was a fool,</span>
   <span id="f000244">but he certainly did not know it.</span>
   <span id="f000245">He was in the “deadest” earnest in these matters.</span>
   <span id="f000246">He died at sea,</span>
   <span id="f000247">last summer,</span>
   <span id="f000248">as the “Earl of Ramsgate.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track14">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

