<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright">This is a LibriVox recording</p>
   <p class="titleCopyright">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</p>
   <p class="titleCopyright">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000001">Recording by<br />Lynne Thompson</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000002">A Lodging For The Night</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000003">by<br />Robert Louis Stevenson</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000004">It was late in November 1456.</span>
   <span id="f000005">The snow fell over Paris with rigorous,</span>
   <span id="f000006">relentless persistence;</span>
   <span id="f000007">sometimes the wind made a sally and scattered it in flying vortices;</span>
   <span id="f000008">sometimes there was a lull,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and flake after flake descended out of the black night air,</span>
   <span id="f000010">silent,</span>
   <span id="f000011">circuitous,</span>
   <span id="f000012">interminable.</span>
   <span id="f000013">To poor people,</span>
   <span id="f000014">looking up under moist eyebrows,</span>
   <span id="f000015">it seemed a wonder where it all came from.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Master Francis Villon had propounded an alternative that afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000017">at a tavern window:</span>
   <span id="f000018">was it only Pagan Jupiter plucking geese upon Olympus,</span>
   <span id="f000019">or were the holy angels moulting?</span>
   <span id="f000020">He was only a poor Master of Arts,</span>
   <span id="f000021">he went on;</span>
   <span id="f000022">and as the question somewhat touched upon divinity,</span>
   <span id="f000023">he durst not venture to conclude.</span>
   <span id="f000024">A silly old priest from Montargis,</span>
   <span id="f000025">who was among the company,</span>
   <span id="f000026">treated the young rascal to a bottle of wine in honor of the jest and the grimaces with which it was accompanied,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and swore on his own white beard that he had been just such another irreverent dog when he was Villon’s age.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">The air was raw and pointed,</span>
   <span id="f000029">but not far below freezing;</span>
   <span id="f000030">and the flakes were large,</span>
   <span id="f000031">damp,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and adhesive.</span>
   <span id="f000033">The whole city was sheeted up.</span>
   <span id="f000034">An army might have marched from end to end and not a footfall given the alarm.</span>
   <span id="f000035">If there were any belated birds in heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000036">they saw the island like a large white patch,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and the bridges like slim white spars,</span>
   <span id="f000038">on the black ground of the river.</span>
   <span id="f000039">High up overhead the snow settled among the tracery of the cathedral towers.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Many a niche was drifted full;</span>
   <span id="f000041">many a statue wore a long white bonnet on its grotesque or sainted head.</span>
   <span id="f000042">The gargoyles had been transformed into great false noses,</span>
   <span id="f000043">drooping toward the point.</span>
   <span id="f000044">The crockets were like upright pillows swollen on one side.</span>
   <span id="f000045">In the intervals of the wind there was a dull sound of dripping about the precincts of the church.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">The cemetery of St.&#160;John had taken its own share of the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000047">All the graves were decently covered;</span>
   <span id="f000048">tall,</span>
   <span id="f000049">white housetops stood around in grave array;</span>
   <span id="f000050">worthy burghers were long ago in bed,</span>
   <span id="f000051">benightcapped like their domiciles;</span>
   <span id="f000052">there was no light in all the neighborhood but a little peep from a lamp that hung swinging in the church choir,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and tossed the shadows to and fro in time to its oscillations.</span>
   <span id="f000054">The clock was hard on ten when the patrol went by with halberds and a lantern,</span>
   <span id="f000055">beating their hands;</span>
   <span id="f000056">and they saw nothing suspicious about the cemetery of St.&#160;John.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">Yet there was a small house,</span>
   <span id="f000058">backed up against the cemetery wall,</span>
   <span id="f000059">which was still awake,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and awake to evil purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000061">in that snoring district.</span>
   <span id="f000062">There was not much to betray it from without;</span>
   <span id="f000063">only a stream of warm vapor from the chimney-top,</span>
   <span id="f000064">a patch where the snow melted on the roof,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and a few half-obliterated footprints at the door.</span>
   <span id="f000066">But within,</span>
   <span id="f000067">behind the shuttered windows,</span>
   <span id="f000068">Master Francis Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000069">the poet,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and some of the thievish crew with whom he consorted,</span>
   <span id="f000071">were keeping the night alive and passing round the bottle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">A great pile of living embers diffused a strong and ruddy glow from the arched chimney.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Before this straddled Dom Nicolas,</span>
   <span id="f000074">the Picardy monk,</span>
   <span id="f000075">with his skirts picked up and his fat legs bared to the comfortable warmth.</span>
   <span id="f000076">His dilated shadow cut the room in half;</span>
   <span id="f000077">and the firelight only escaped on either side of his broad person,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and in a little pool between his outspread feet.</span>
   <span id="f000079">His face had the beery,</span>
   <span id="f000080">bruised appearance of the continual drinker’s;</span>
   <span id="f000081">it was covered with a network of congested veins,</span>
   <span id="f000082">purple in ordinary circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000083">but now pale violet,</span>
   <span id="f000084">for even with his back to the fire the cold pinched him on the other side.</span>
   <span id="f000085">His cowl had half fallen back,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and made a strange excrescence on either side of his bull neck.</span>
   <span id="f000087">So he straddled,</span>
   <span id="f000088">grumbling,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and cut the room in half with the shadow of his portly frame.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">On the right,</span>
   <span id="f000091">Villon and Guy Tabary were huddled together over a scrap of parchment;</span>
   <span id="f000092">Villon making a ballade which he was to call the <em>Ballade of Roast Fish</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and Tabary spluttering admiration at his shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000094">The poet was a rag of a man,</span>
   <span id="f000095">dark,</span>
   <span id="f000096">little,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and lean,</span>
   <span id="f000098">with hollow cheeks and thin black locks.</span>
   <span id="f000099">He carried his four-and-twenty years with feverish animation.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Greed had made folds about his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000101">evil smiles had puckered his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000102">The wolf and pig struggled together in his face.</span>
   <span id="f000103">It was an eloquent,</span>
   <span id="f000104">sharp,</span>
   <span id="f000105">ugly,</span>
   <span id="f000106">earthly countenance.</span>
   <span id="f000107">His hands were small and prehensile,</span>
   <span id="f000108">with fingers knotted like a cord;</span>
   <span id="f000109">and they were continually flickering in front of him in violent and expressive pantomime.</span>
   <span id="f000110">As for Tabary,</span>
   <span id="f000111">a broad,</span>
   <span id="f000112">complacent,</span>
   <span id="f000113">admiring imbecility breathed from his squash nose and slobbering lips:</span>
   <span id="f000114">he had become a thief,</span>
   <span id="f000115">just as he might have become the most decent of burgesses,</span>
   <span id="f000116">by the imperious chance that rules the lives of human geese and human donkeys.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">At the monk’s other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000118">Montigny and Thevenin Pensete played a game of chance.</span>
   <span id="f000119">About the first there clung some flavor of good birth and training,</span>
   <span id="f000120">as about a fallen angel;</span>
   <span id="f000121">something long,</span>
   <span id="f000122">lithe,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and courtly in the person;</span>
   <span id="f000124">something aquiline and darkling in the face.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Thevenin,</span>
   <span id="f000126">poor soul,</span>
   <span id="f000127">was in great feather:</span>
   <span id="f000128">he had done a good stroke of knavery that afternoon in the Faubourg St.&#160;Jacques,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and all night he had been gaining from Montigny.</span>
   <span id="f000130">A flat smile illuminated his face;</span>
   <span id="f000131">his bald head shone rosily in a garland of red curls;</span>
   <span id="f000132">his little protuberant stomach shook with silent chucklings as he swept in his gains.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Doubles or quits?” said Thevenin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">Montigny nodded grimly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“<em>Some may prefer to dine in state</em>” wrote Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000136">“<em>On bread and cheese on silver plate</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Or – or – help me out,</span>
   <span id="f000138">Guido!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">Tabary giggled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“<em>Or parsley on a silver dish</em>” scribbled the poet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">The wind was freshening without;</span>
   <span id="f000142">it drove the snow before it,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and sometimes raised its voice in a victorious whoop,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and made sepulchral grumblings in the chimney.</span>
   <span id="f000145">The cold was growing sharper as the night went on.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000147">protruding his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000148">imitated the gust with something between a whistle and a groan.</span>
   <span id="f000149">It was an eerie,</span>
   <span id="f000150">uncomfortable talent of the poet’s,</span>
   <span id="f000151">much detested by the Picardy monk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“Can’t you hear it rattle in the gibbet?” said Villon.</span>
   <span id="f000153">“They are all dancing the devil’s jig on nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000154">up there.</span>
   <span id="f000155">You may dance,</span>
   <span id="f000156">my gallants,</span>
   <span id="f000157">you’ll be none the warmer!</span>
   <span id="f000158">Whew,</span>
   <span id="f000159">what a gust!</span>
   <span id="f000160">Down went somebody just now!</span>
   <span id="f000161">A medlar the fewer on the three-legged medlar-tree!</span>
   <span id="f000162">– I say,</span>
   <span id="f000163">Dom Nicolas,</span>
   <span id="f000164">it’ll be cold to-night on the St.&#160;Denis Road?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">Dom Nicolas winked both his big eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and seemed to choke upon his Adam’s apple.</span>
   <span id="f000167">Montfaucon,</span>
   <span id="f000168">the great grisly Paris gibbet,</span>
   <span id="f000169">stood hard by the St.&#160;Denis Road,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and the pleasantry touched him on the raw.</span>
   <span id="f000171">As for Tabary,</span>
   <span id="f000172">he laughed immoderately over the medlars;</span>
   <span id="f000173">he had never heard anything more light-hearted;</span>
   <span id="f000174">and he held his sides and crowed.</span>
   <span id="f000175">Villon fetched him a fillip on the nose,</span>
   <span id="f000176">which turned his mirth into an attack of coughing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000178">stop that row,” said Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000179">“and think of rhymes to ’fish.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“Doubles or quits,” said Montigny doggedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“With all my heart,” quoth Thevenin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Is there any more in that bottle?” asked the monk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">“Open another,” said Villon.</span>
   <span id="f000184">“How do you ever hope to fill that big hogshead,</span>
   <span id="f000185">your body,</span>
   <span id="f000186">with little things like bottles?</span>
   <span id="f000187">And how do you expect to get to heaven?</span>
   <span id="f000188">How many angels,</span>
   <span id="f000189">do you fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000190">can be spared to carry up a single monk from Picardy?</span>
   <span id="f000191">Or do you think yourself another Elias – and they’ll send the coach for you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“<em>Hominibus impossibile</em>” replied the monk,</span>
   <span id="f000193">as he filled his glass.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">Tabary was in ecstasies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">Villon filliped his nose again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Laugh at my jokes,</span>
   <span id="f000197">if you like,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“It was very good,” objected Tabary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">Villon made a face at him.</span>
   <span id="f000200">“Think of rhymes to ’fish,’” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000201">“What have you to do with Latin?</span>
   <span id="f000202">You’ll wish you knew none of it at the great assizes,</span>
   <span id="f000203">when the devil calls for Guido Tabary,</span>
   <span id="f000204">clericus – the devil with the humpback and red-hot finger-nails.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Talking of the devil,” he added,</span>
   <span id="f000206">in a whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000207">“look at Montigny!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">All three peered covertly at the gamester.</span>
   <span id="f000209">He did not seem to be enjoying his luck.</span>
   <span id="f000210">His mouth was a little to a side;</span>
   <span id="f000211">one nostril nearly shut,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and the other much inflated.</span>
   <span id="f000213">The black dog was on his back,</span>
   <span id="f000214">as people say,</span>
   <span id="f000215">in terrifying nursery metaphor;</span>
   <span id="f000216">and he breathed hard under the gruesome burden.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“He looks as if he could knife him,” whispered Tabary,</span>
   <span id="f000218">with round eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">The monk shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and turned his face and spread his open hands to the red embers.</span>
   <span id="f000221">It was the cold that thus affected Dom Nicolas,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and not any excess of moral sensibility.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“Come now,” said Villon – “about this ballade.</span>
   <span id="f000224">How does it run so far?” And beating time with his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000225">he read it aloud to Tabary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">They were interrupted at the fourth rhyme by a brief and fatal movement among the gamesters.</span>
   <span id="f000227">The round was completed,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and Thevenin was just opening his mouth to claim another victory,</span>
   <span id="f000229">when Montigny leaped up,</span>
   <span id="f000230">swift as an adder,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and stabbed him to the heart.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The blow took effect before he had time to utter a cry,</span>
   <span id="f000233">before he had time to move.</span>
   <span id="f000234">A tremor or two convulsed his frame;</span>
   <span id="f000235">his hands opened and shut,</span>
   <span id="f000236">his heels rattled on the floor;</span>
   <span id="f000237">then his head rolled backward over one shoulder with the eyes open,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and Thevenin Pensete’s spirit had returned to Him who made it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">Everyone sprang to his feet;</span>
   <span id="f000240">but the business was over in two twos.</span>
   <span id="f000241">The four living fellows looked at each other in rather a ghastly fashion;</span>
   <span id="f000242">the dead man contemplating a corner of the roof with a singular and ugly leer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“My God!” said Tabary,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and he began to pray in Latin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">Villon broke out into hysterical laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000246">He came a step forward and clucked a ridiculous bow at Thevenin,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and laughed still louder.</span>
   <span id="f000248">Then he sat down suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000249">all of a heap,</span>
   <span id="f000250">upon a stool,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and continued laughing bitterly as though he would shake himself to pieces.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">Montigny recovered his composure first.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“Let’s see what he has about him,” he remarked;</span>
   <span id="f000254">and he picked the dead man’s pockets with a practised hand,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and divided the money into four equal portions on the table.</span>
   <span id="f000256">“There’s for you,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">The monk received his share with a deep sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and a single stealthy glance at the dead Thevenin,</span>
   <span id="f000259">who was beginning to sink into himself and topple sideways off the chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“We’re all in for it,” cried Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000261">swallowing his mirth.</span>
   <span id="f000262">“It’s a hanging job for every man jack of us that’s here – not to speak of those who aren’t.” He made a shocking gesture in the air with his raised right hand,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and put out his tongue and threw his head on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000264">so as to counterfeit the appearance of one who has been hanged.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Then he pocketed his share of the spoil,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and executed a shuffle with his feet as if to restore the circulation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">Tabary was the last to help himself;</span>
   <span id="f000268">he made a dash at the money,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and retired to the other end of the apartment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">Montigny stuck Thevenin upright in the chair,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and drew out the dagger,</span>
   <span id="f000272">which was followed by a jet of blood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“You fellows had better be moving,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000274">as he wiped the blade on his victim’s doublet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“I think we had,” returned Villon with a gulp.</span>
   <span id="f000276">“Damn his fat head!” he broke out.</span>
   <span id="f000277">“It sticks in my throat like phlegm.</span>
   <span id="f000278">What right has a man to have red hair when he is dead?” And he fell all of a heap again upon the stool,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and fairly covered his face with his hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">Montigny and Dom Nicolas laughed aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000281">even Tabary feebly chiming in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“Cry baby,” said the monk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">“I always said he was a woman,” added Montigny with a sneer.</span>
   <span id="f000284">“Sit up,</span>
   <span id="f000285">can’t you?” he went on,</span>
   <span id="f000286">giving another shake to the murdered body.</span>
   <span id="f000287">“Tread out that fire,</span>
   <span id="f000288">Nick.” But Nick was better employed;</span>
   <span id="f000289">he was quietly taking Villon’s purse,</span>
   <span id="f000290">as the poet sat,</span>
   <span id="f000291">limp and trembling,</span>
   <span id="f000292">on the stool where he had been making a ballade not three minutes before.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Montigny and Tabary dumbly demanded a share of the booty,</span>
   <span id="f000294">which the monk silently promised as he passed the little bag into the bosom of his gown.</span>
   <span id="f000295">In many ways an artistic nature unfits a man for practical existence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">No sooner had the theft been accomplished than Villon shook himself,</span>
   <span id="f000297">jumped to his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and began helping to scatter and extinguish the embers.</span>
   <span id="f000299">Meanwhile Montigny opened the door and cautiously peered into the street.</span>
   <span id="f000300">The coast was clear;</span>
   <span id="f000301">there was no meddlesome patrol in sight.</span>
   <span id="f000302">Still it was judged wiser to slip out severally;</span>
   <span id="f000303">and as Villon was himself in a hurry to escape from the neighborhood of the dead Thevenin,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and the rest were in a still greater hurry to get rid of him before he should discover the loss of his money,</span>
   <span id="f000305">he was the first by general consent to issue forth into the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">The wind had triumphed and swept all the clouds from heaven.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Only a few vapors,</span>
   <span id="f000308">as thin as moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000309">fleeted rapidly across the stars.</span>
   <span id="f000310">It was bitter cold;</span>
   <span id="f000311">and by a common optical effect,</span>
   <span id="f000312">things seemed almost more definite than in the broadest daylight.</span>
   <span id="f000313">The sleeping city was absolutely still:</span>
   <span id="f000314">a company of white hoods,</span>
   <span id="f000315">a field full of little Alps,</span>
   <span id="f000316">below the twinkling stars.</span>
   <span id="f000317">Villon cursed his fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Would it were still snowing!</span>
   <span id="f000319">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000320">wherever he went he left an indelible trail behind him on the glittering streets;</span>
   <span id="f000321">wherever he went he was still tethered to the house by the cemetery of St.&#160;John;</span>
   <span id="f000322">wherever he went he must weave,</span>
   <span id="f000323">with his own plodding feet,</span>
   <span id="f000324">the rope that bound him to the crime and would bind him to the gallows.</span>
   <span id="f000325">The leer of the dead man came back to him with a new significance.</span>
   <span id="f000326">He snapped his fingers as if to pluck up his own spirits,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and choosing a street at random,</span>
   <span id="f000328">stepped boldly forward in the snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">Two things preoccupied him as he went:</span>
   <span id="f000330">the aspect of the gallows at Montfaucon in this bright windy phase of the night’s existence,</span>
   <span id="f000331">for one;</span>
   <span id="f000332">and for another,</span>
   <span id="f000333">the look of the dead man with his bald head and garland of red curls.</span>
   <span id="f000334">Both struck cold upon his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and he kept quickening his pace as if he could escape from unpleasant thoughts by mere fleetness of foot.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Sometimes he looked back over his shoulder with a sudden nervous jerk;</span>
   <span id="f000337">but he was the only moving thing in the white streets,</span>
   <span id="f000338">except when the wind swooped round a corner and threw up the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000339">which was beginning to freeze,</span>
   <span id="f000340">in spouts of glittering dust.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">Suddenly he saw,</span>
   <span id="f000342">a long way before him,</span>
   <span id="f000343">a black clump and a couple of lanterns.</span>
   <span id="f000344">The clump was in motion,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and the lanterns swung as though carried by men walking.</span>
   <span id="f000346">It was a patrol.</span>
   <span id="f000347">And though it was merely crossing his line of march,</span>
   <span id="f000348">he judged it wiser to get out of eyeshot as speedily as he could.</span>
   <span id="f000349">He was not in the humor to be challenged,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and he was conscious of making a very conspicuous mark upon the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Just on his left hand there stood a great hotel,</span>
   <span id="f000352">with some turrets and a large porch before the door;</span>
   <span id="f000353">it was half-ruinous,</span>
   <span id="f000354">he remembered,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and had long stood empty;</span>
   <span id="f000356">and so he made three steps of it and jumped inside the shelter of the porch.</span>
   <span id="f000357">It was pretty dark inside,</span>
   <span id="f000358">after the glimmer of the snowy streets,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and he was groping forward with outspread hands,</span>
   <span id="f000360">when he stumbled over some substance which offered an indescribable mixture of resistances,</span>
   <span id="f000361">hard and soft,</span>
   <span id="f000362">firm and loose.</span>
   <span id="f000363">His heart gave a leap,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and he sprang two steps back and stared dreadfully at the obstacle.</span>
   <span id="f000365">Then he gave a little laugh of relief.</span>
   <span id="f000366">It was only a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and she dead.</span>
   <span id="f000368">He knelt beside her to make sure upon this latter point.</span>
   <span id="f000369">She was freezing cold,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and rigid like a stick.</span>
   <span id="f000371">A little ragged finery fluttered in the wind about her hair,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and her cheeks had been heavily rouged that same afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000373">Her pockets were quite empty;</span>
   <span id="f000374">but in her stocking,</span>
   <span id="f000375">underneath the garter,</span>
   <span id="f000376">Villon found two of the small coins that went by the name of whites.</span>
   <span id="f000377">It was little enough;</span>
   <span id="f000378">but it was always something;</span>
   <span id="f000379">and the poet was moved with a deep sense of pathos that she should have died before she had spent her money.</span>
   <span id="f000380">That seemed to him a dark and pitiable mystery;</span>
   <span id="f000381">and he looked from the coins in his hand to the dead woman,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and back again to the coins,</span>
   <span id="f000383">shaking his head over the riddle of man’s life.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Henry V.</span>
   <span id="f000385">of England,</span>
   <span id="f000386">dying at Vincennes just after he had conquered France,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and this poor jade cut off by a cold draught in a great man’s doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000388">before she had time to spend her couple of whites – it seemed a cruel way to carry on the world.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Two whites would have taken such a little while to squander;</span>
   <span id="f000390">and yet it would have been one more good taste in the mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000391">one more smack of the lips,</span>
   <span id="f000392">before the devil got the soul,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and the body was left to birds and vermin.</span>
   <span id="f000394">He would like to use all his tallow before the light was blown out and the lantern broken.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">While these thoughts were passing through his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000396">he was feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000397">half-mechanically,</span>
   <span id="f000398">for his purse.</span>
   <span id="f000399">Suddenly his heart stopped beating;</span>
   <span id="f000400">a feeling of cold scales passed up the back of his legs,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and a cold blow seemed to fall upon his scalp.</span>
   <span id="f000402">He stood petrified for a moment;</span>
   <span id="f000403">then he felt again with one feverish movement;</span>
   <span id="f000404">and then his loss burst upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and he was covered with perspiration.</span>
   <span id="f000406">To spendthrifts money is so living and actual – it is such a thin veil between them and their pleasures!</span>
   <span id="f000407">There is only one limit to their fortune – that of time;</span>
   <span id="f000408">and a spendthrift with only a few crowns is the Emperor of Rome until they are spent.</span>
   <span id="f000409">For such a person to lose his money is to suffer the most shocking reverse,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and fall from heaven to hell,</span>
   <span id="f000411">from all to nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000412">in a breath.</span>
   <span id="f000413">And all the more if he has put his head in the halter for it;</span>
   <span id="f000414">if he may be hanged to-morrow for that same purse,</span>
   <span id="f000415">so dearly earned,</span>
   <span id="f000416">so foolishly departed.</span>
   <span id="f000417">Villon stood and cursed;</span>
   <span id="f000418">he threw the two whites into the street;</span>
   <span id="f000419">he shook his fist at heaven;</span>
   <span id="f000420">he stamped,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and was not horrified to find himself trampling the poor corpse.</span>
   <span id="f000422">Then he began rapidly to retrace his steps toward the house beside the cemetery.</span>
   <span id="f000423">He had forgotten all fear of the patrol,</span>
   <span id="f000424">which was long gone by at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and had no idea but that of his lost purse.</span>
   <span id="f000426">It was in vain that he looked right and left upon the snow;</span>
   <span id="f000427">nothing was to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000428">He had not dropped it in the streets.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Had it fallen in the house?</span>
   <span id="f000430">He would have liked dearly to go in and see;</span>
   <span id="f000431">but the idea of the grisly occupant unmanned him.</span>
   <span id="f000432">And he saw besides,</span>
   <span id="f000433">as he drew near,</span>
   <span id="f000434">that their efforts to put out the fire had been unsuccessful;</span>
   <span id="f000435">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000436">it had broken into a blaze,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and a changeful light played in the chinks of the door and window,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and revived his terror for the authorities and Paris gibbet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">He returned to the hotel with the porch,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and groped about upon the snow for the money he had thrown away in his childish passion.</span>
   <span id="f000441">But he could only find one white;</span>
   <span id="f000442">the other had probably struck sideways and sunk deeply in.</span>
   <span id="f000443">With a single white in his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000444">all his projects for a rousing night in some wild tavern vanished utterly away.</span>
   <span id="f000445">And it was not only pleasure that fled laughing from his grasp;</span>
   <span id="f000446">positive discomfort,</span>
   <span id="f000447">positive pain,</span>
   <span id="f000448">attacked him as he stood ruefully before the porch.</span>
   <span id="f000449">His perspiration had dried upon him;</span>
   <span id="f000450">and though the wind had now fallen,</span>
   <span id="f000451">a binding frost was setting in stronger with every hour,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and he felt benumbed and sick at heart.</span>
   <span id="f000453">What was to be done?</span>
   <span id="f000454">Late as was the hour,</span>
   <span id="f000455">improbable as was success,</span>
   <span id="f000456">he would try the house of his adopted father,</span>
   <span id="f000457">the chaplain of St.&#160;Benoit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">He ran there all the way,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and knocked timidly.</span>
   <span id="f000460">There was no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000461">He knocked again and again,</span>
   <span id="f000462">taking heart with every stroke;</span>
   <span id="f000463">and at last steps were heard approaching from within.</span>
   <span id="f000464">A barred wicket fell open in the iron-studded door,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and emitted a gush of yellow light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">“Hold up your face to the wicket,” said the chaplain from within.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“It’s only me,” whimpered Villon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000469">it’s only you,</span>
   <span id="f000470">is it?” returned the chaplain;</span>
   <span id="f000471">and he cursed him with foul unpriestly oaths for disturbing him at such an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and bade him be off to hell,</span>
   <span id="f000473">where he came from.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">“My hands are blue to the wrists,” pleaded Villon;</span>
   <span id="f000475">“my feet are dead and full of twinges;</span>
   <span id="f000476">my nose aches with the sharp air;</span>
   <span id="f000477">the cold lies at my heart.</span>
   <span id="f000478">I may be dead before morning.</span>
   <span id="f000479">Only this once,</span>
   <span id="f000480">father,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and before God I will never ask again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">“You should have come earlier,” said the ecclesiastic,</span>
   <span id="f000483">coolly.</span>
   <span id="f000484">“Young men require a lesson now and then.” He shut the wicket and retired deliberately into the interior of the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">Villon was beside himself;</span>
   <span id="f000486">he beat upon the door with his hands and feet,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and shouted hoarsely after the chaplain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“Wormy old fox,” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000489">“If I had my hand under your twist,</span>
   <span id="f000490">I would send you flying headlong into the bottomless pit.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">A door shut in the interior,</span>
   <span id="f000492">faintly audible to the poet down long passages.</span>
   <span id="f000493">He passed his hand over his mouth with an oath.</span>
   <span id="f000494">And then the humor of the situation struck him,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and he laughed and looked lightly up to heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000496">where the stars seemed to be winking over his discomfiture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">What was to be done?</span>
   <span id="f000498">It looked very like a night in the frosty streets.</span>
   <span id="f000499">The idea of the dead woman popped into his imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and gave him a hearty fright;</span>
   <span id="f000501">what had happened to her in the early night might very well happen to him before morning.</span>
   <span id="f000502">And he so young!</span>
   <span id="f000503">and with such immense possibilities of disorderly amusement before him!</span>
   <span id="f000504">He felt quite pathetic over the notion of his own fate,</span>
   <span id="f000505">as if it had been some one else’s,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and made a little imaginative vignette of the scene in the morning when they should find his body.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">He passed all his chances under review,</span>
   <span id="f000508">turning the white between his thumb and forefinger.</span>
   <span id="f000509">Unfortunately he was on bad terms with some old friends who would once have taken pity on him in such a plight.</span>
   <span id="f000510">He had lampooned them in verses,</span>
   <span id="f000511">he had beaten and cheated them;</span>
   <span id="f000512">and yet now,</span>
   <span id="f000513">when he was in so close a pinch,</span>
   <span id="f000514">he thought there was at least one who might perhaps relent.</span>
   <span id="f000515">It was a chance.</span>
   <span id="f000516">It was worth trying at least,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and he would go and see.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">On the way,</span>
   <span id="f000519">two little accidents happened to him which colored his musings in a very different manner.</span>
   <span id="f000520">For,</span>
   <span id="f000521">first,</span>
   <span id="f000522">he fell in with the track of a patrol,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and walked in it for some yards,</span>
   <span id="f000524">although it lay out of his direction.</span>
   <span id="f000525">And this spirited him up;</span>
   <span id="f000526">at least he had confused his trail;</span>
   <span id="f000527">for he was still possessed with the idea of people tracking him all about Paris over the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and collaring him next morning before he was awake.</span>
   <span id="f000529">The other matter affected him very differently.</span>
   <span id="f000530">He passed a street corner,</span>
   <span id="f000531">where,</span>
   <span id="f000532">not so long before,</span>
   <span id="f000533">a woman and her child had been devoured by wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000534">This was just the kind of weather,</span>
   <span id="f000535">he reflected,</span>
   <span id="f000536">when wolves might take it into their heads to enter Paris again;</span>
   <span id="f000537">and a lone man in these deserted streets would run the chance of something worse than a mere scare.</span>
   <span id="f000538">He stopped and looked upon the place with unpleasant interest – it was a centre where several lanes intersected each other;</span>
   <span id="f000539">and he looked down them all one after another,</span>
   <span id="f000540">and held his breath to listen,</span>
   <span id="f000541">lest he should detect some galloping black things on the snow or hear the sound of howling between him and the river.</span>
   <span id="f000542">He remembered his mother telling him the story and pointing out the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000543">while he was yet a child.</span>
   <span id="f000544">His mother!</span>
   <span id="f000545">If he only knew where she lived,</span>
   <span id="f000546">he might make sure at least of shelter.</span>
   <span id="f000547">He determined he would inquire upon the morrow:</span>
   <span id="f000548">nay,</span>
   <span id="f000549">he would go and see her,</span>
   <span id="f000550">too,</span>
   <span id="f000551">poor old girl!</span>
   <span id="f000552">So thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000553">he arrived at his destination – his last hope for the night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">The house was quite dark,</span>
   <span id="f000555">like its neighbors,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and yet after a few taps,</span>
   <span id="f000557">he heard a movement overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000558">a door opening,</span>
   <span id="f000559">and a cautious voice asking who was there.</span>
   <span id="f000560">The poet named himself in a loud whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and waited,</span>
   <span id="f000562">not without some trepidation,</span>
   <span id="f000563">the result.</span>
   <span id="f000564">Nor had he to wait long.</span>
   <span id="f000565">A window was suddenly opened,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and a pailful of slops splashed down upon the doorstep.</span>
   <span id="f000567">Villon had not been unprepared for something of the sort,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and had put himself as much in shelter as the nature of the porch admitted;</span>
   <span id="f000569">but for all that,</span>
   <span id="f000570">he was deplorably drenched below the waist.</span>
   <span id="f000571">His hose began to freeze almost at once.</span>
   <span id="f000572">Death from cold and exposure stared him in the face;</span>
   <span id="f000573">he remembered he was of phthisical tendency,</span>
   <span id="f000574">and began coughing tentatively.</span>
   <span id="f000575">But the gravity of the danger steadied his nerves.</span>
   <span id="f000576">He stopped a few hundred yards from the door where he had been so rudely used,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and reflected with his finger to his nose.</span>
   <span id="f000578">He could only see one way of getting a lodging,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and that was to take it.</span>
   <span id="f000580">He had noticed a house not far away which looked as if it might be easily broken into,</span>
   <span id="f000581">and thither he betook himself promptly,</span>
   <span id="f000582">entertaining himself on the way with the idea of a room still hot,</span>
   <span id="f000583">with a table still loaded with the remains of supper,</span>
   <span id="f000584">where he might pass the rest of the black hours,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and whence he should issue,</span>
   <span id="f000586">on the morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000587">with an armful of valuable plate.</span>
   <span id="f000588">He even considered on what viands and what wines he should prefer;</span>
   <span id="f000589">and as he was calling the roll of his favorite dainties,</span>
   <span id="f000590">roast fish presented itself to his mind with an odd mixture of amusement and horror.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">“I shall never finish that ballade,” he thought to himself;</span>
   <span id="f000592">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000593">with another shudder at the recollection,</span>
   <span id="f000594">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000595">damn his fat head!” he repeated fervently,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and spat upon the snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">The house in question looked dark at first sight;</span>
   <span id="f000598">but as Villon made a preliminary inspection in search of the handiest point of attack,</span>
   <span id="f000599">a little twinkle of light caught his eye from behind a curtained window.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">“The devil!” he thought.</span>
   <span id="f000601">“People awake!</span>
   <span id="f000602">Some student or some saint,</span>
   <span id="f000603">confound the crew!</span>
   <span id="f000604">Can’t they get drunk and lie in bed snoring like their neighbors!</span>
   <span id="f000605">What’s the good of curfew,</span>
   <span id="f000606">and poor devils of bell-ringers jumping at a rope’s-end in bell-towers?</span>
   <span id="f000607">What’s the use of day,</span>
   <span id="f000608">if people sit up all night?</span>
   <span id="f000609">The gripes to them!” He grinned as he saw where his logic was leading him.</span>
   <span id="f000610">“Every man to his business,</span>
   <span id="f000611">after all,” added he,</span>
   <span id="f000612">“and if they’re awake,</span>
   <span id="f000613">by the Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000614">I may come by a supper honestly for this once,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and cheat the devil.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">He went boldly to the door,</span>
   <span id="f000617">and knocked with an assured hand.</span>
   <span id="f000618">On both previous occasions he had knocked timidly and with some dread of attracting notice;</span>
   <span id="f000619">but now,</span>
   <span id="f000620">when he had just discarded the thought of a burglarious entry,</span>
   <span id="f000621">knocking at a door seemed a mighty simple and innocent proceeding.</span>
   <span id="f000622">The sound of his blows echoed through the house with thin,</span>
   <span id="f000623">phantasmal reverberations,</span>
   <span id="f000624">as though it were quite empty;</span>
   <span id="f000625">but these had scarcely died away before a measured tread drew near,</span>
   <span id="f000626">a couple of bolts were withdrawn,</span>
   <span id="f000627">and one wing was opened broadly,</span>
   <span id="f000628">as though no guile or fear of guile were known to those within.</span>
   <span id="f000629">A tall figure of a man,</span>
   <span id="f000630">muscular and spare,</span>
   <span id="f000631">but a little bent,</span>
   <span id="f000632">confronted Villon.</span>
   <span id="f000633">The head was massive in bulk,</span>
   <span id="f000634">but finely sculptured;</span>
   <span id="f000635">the nose blunt at the bottom but refining upward to where it joined a pair of strong and honest eyebrows;</span>
   <span id="f000636">the mouth and eyes surrounded with delicate markings,</span>
   <span id="f000637">and the whole face based upon a thick white beard,</span>
   <span id="f000638">boldly and squarely trimmed.</span>
   <span id="f000639">Seen as it was by the light of a flickering hand-lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000640">it looked perhaps nobler than it had a right to do;</span>
   <span id="f000641">but it was a fine face,</span>
   <span id="f000642">honorable rather than intelligent,</span>
   <span id="f000643">strong,</span>
   <span id="f000644">simple,</span>
   <span id="f000645">and righteous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“You knock late,</span>
   <span id="f000647">sir,” said the old man in resonant,</span>
   <span id="f000648">courteous tones.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">Villon cringed,</span>
   <span id="f000650">and brought up many servile words of apology;</span>
   <span id="f000651">at a crisis of this sort,</span>
   <span id="f000652">the beggar was uppermost in him,</span>
   <span id="f000653">and the man of genius hid his head with confusion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">“You are cold,” repeated the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000655">“and hungry?</span>
   <span id="f000656">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000657">step in.” And he ordered him into the house with a noble enough gesture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">“Some great seigneur,” thought Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000659">as his host,</span>
   <span id="f000660">setting down the lamp on the flagged pavement of the entry,</span>
   <span id="f000661">shot the bolts once more into their places.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">“You will pardon me if I go in front,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000663">when this was done;</span>
   <span id="f000664">and he preceded the poet up-stairs into a large apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000665">warmed with a pan of charcoal and lit by a great lamp hanging from the roof.</span>
   <span id="f000666">It was very bare of furniture;</span>
   <span id="f000667">only some gold plate on a sideboard;</span>
   <span id="f000668">some folios;</span>
   <span id="f000669">and a stand of armor between the windows.</span>
   <span id="f000670">Some smart tapestry hung upon the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000671">representing the crucifixion of our Lord in one piece,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and in another a scene of shepherds and shepherdesses by a running stream.</span>
   <span id="f000673">Over the chimney was a shield of arms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">“Will you seat yourself,” said the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000675">“and forgive me if I leave you?</span>
   <span id="f000676">I am alone in my house to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and if you are to eat I must forage for you myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">No sooner was his host gone than Villon leaped from the chair on which he just seated himself,</span>
   <span id="f000679">and began examining the room,</span>
   <span id="f000680">with the stealth and passion of a cat.</span>
   <span id="f000681">He weighed the gold flagons in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000682">opened all the folios,</span>
   <span id="f000683">and investigated the arms upon the shield,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and the stuff with which the seats were lined.</span>
   <span id="f000685">He raised the window-curtains,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and saw that the windows were set with rich stained glass in figures,</span>
   <span id="f000687">so far as he could see,</span>
   <span id="f000688">of martial import.</span>
   <span id="f000689">Then he stood in the middle of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000690">drew a long breath,</span>
   <span id="f000691">and retaining it with puffed cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000692">looked round and round him,</span>
   <span id="f000693">turning on his heels,</span>
   <span id="f000694">as if to impress every feature of the apartment on his memory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000695">“Seven pieces of plate,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000696">“If there had been ten I would have risked it.</span>
   <span id="f000697">A fine house,</span>
   <span id="f000698">and a fine old master,</span>
   <span id="f000699">so help me all the saints.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000700">And just then,</span>
   <span id="f000701">hearing the old man’s tread returning along the corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000702">he stole back to his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000703">and began toasting his wet legs before the charcoal pan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000704">His entertainer had a plate of meat in one hand and a jug of wine in the other.</span>
   <span id="f000705">He set down the plate upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000706">motioning Villon to draw in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and going to the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000708">brought back two goblets,</span>
   <span id="f000709">which he filled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">“I drink to your better fortune,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000711">gravely touching Villon’s cup with his own.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">“To our better acquaintance,” said the poet,</span>
   <span id="f000713">growing bold.</span>
   <span id="f000714">A mere man of the people would have been awed by the courtesy of the old seigneur,</span>
   <span id="f000715">but Villon was hardened in that matter;</span>
   <span id="f000716">he had made mirth for great lords before now,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and found them as black rascals as himself.</span>
   <span id="f000718">And so he devoted himself to the viands with a ravenous gusto,</span>
   <span id="f000719">while the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000720">leaning backward,</span>
   <span id="f000721">watched him with steady,</span>
   <span id="f000722">curious eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">“You have blood on your shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000724">my man,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">Montigny must have laid his wet right hand upon him as he left the house.</span>
   <span id="f000726">He cursed Montigny in his heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000727">“It was none of my shedding,” he stammered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">“I had not supposed so,” returned his host quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000729">“A brawl?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000731">something of that sort,” Villon admitted with a quaver.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">“Perhaps a fellow murdered?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000734">no,</span>
   <span id="f000735">not murdered,” said the poet,</span>
   <span id="f000736">more and more confused.</span>
   <span id="f000737">“It was all fair play – murdered by accident.</span>
   <span id="f000738">I had no hand in it,</span>
   <span id="f000739">God strike me dead!” he added fervently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“One rogue the fewer,</span>
   <span id="f000741">I dare say,” observed the master of the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000742">“You may dare to say that,” agreed Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000743">infinitely relieved.</span>
   <span id="f000744">“As big a rogue as there is between here and Jerusalem.</span>
   <span id="f000745">He turned up his toes like a lamb.</span>
   <span id="f000746">But it was a nasty thing to look at.</span>
   <span id="f000747">I dare say you’ve seen dead men in your time,</span>
   <span id="f000748">my lord?” he added,</span>
   <span id="f000749">glancing at the armor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“Many,” said the old man.</span>
   <span id="f000751">“I have followed the wars,</span>
   <span id="f000752">as you imagine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">Villon laid down his knife and fork,</span>
   <span id="f000754">which he had just taken up again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000755">“Were any of them bald?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000756">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000757">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000758">and with hair as white as mine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000759">“I don’t think I would mind the white so much,” said Villon.</span>
   <span id="f000760">“His was red.” And he had a return of his shuddering and tendency to laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000761">which he drowned with a great draught of wine.</span>
   <span id="f000762">“I’m a little put out when I think of it,” he went on.</span>
   <span id="f000763">“I knew him – damn him!</span>
   <span id="f000764">And the cold gives a man fancies – or the fancies give a man cold,</span>
   <span id="f000765">I don’t know which.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000766">“Have you any money?” asked the old man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">“I have one white,” returned the poet,</span>
   <span id="f000768">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000769">“I got it out of a dead jade’s stocking in a porch.</span>
   <span id="f000770">She was as dead as Caesar,</span>
   <span id="f000771">poor wench,</span>
   <span id="f000772">and as cold as a church,</span>
   <span id="f000773">with bits of ribbon sticking in her hair.</span>
   <span id="f000774">This is a hard world in winter for wolves and wenches and poor rogues like me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">“I,” said the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000776">“am Enguerrand de la Feuillee,</span>
   <span id="f000777">seigneur se Brisetout,</span>
   <span id="f000778">bailly du Patatrac.</span>
   <span id="f000779">Who and what may you be?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000780">Villon rose and made a suitable reverence.</span>
   <span id="f000781">“I am called Francis Villon,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000782">“a poor Master of Arts of this university.</span>
   <span id="f000783">I know some Latin,</span>
   <span id="f000784">and a deal of vice.</span>
   <span id="f000785">I can make chansons,</span>
   <span id="f000786">ballades,</span>
   <span id="f000787">lais,</span>
   <span id="f000788">virelais,</span>
   <span id="f000789">and roundels,</span>
   <span id="f000790">and I am very fond of wine.</span>
   <span id="f000791">I was born in a garret,</span>
   <span id="f000792">and I shall not improbably die upon the gallows.</span>
   <span id="f000793">I may add,</span>
   <span id="f000794">my lord,</span>
   <span id="f000795">that from this night forward I am your lordship’s very obsequious servant to command.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“No servant of mine,” said the knight;</span>
   <span id="f000797">“my guest for this evening,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and no more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">“A very grateful guest,” said Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000800">politely;</span>
   <span id="f000801">and he drank in dumb show to his entertainer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“You are shrewd,” began the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000803">tapping his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000804">“very shrewd;</span>
   <span id="f000805">you have learning;</span>
   <span id="f000806">you are a clerk;</span>
   <span id="f000807">and yet you take a small piece of money off a dead woman in the street.</span>
   <span id="f000808">Is it not a kind of theft?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">“It is a kind of theft much practised in the wars,</span>
   <span id="f000810">my lord.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">“The wars are the field of honor,” returned the old man proudly.</span>
   <span id="f000812">“There a man plays his life upon the cast;</span>
   <span id="f000813">he fights in the name of his lord the king,</span>
   <span id="f000814">his Lord God,</span>
   <span id="f000815">and all their lordships the holy saints and angels.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000816">“Put it,” said Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000817">“that I were really a thief,</span>
   <span id="f000818">should I not play my life also,</span>
   <span id="f000819">and against heavier odds?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">“For gain,</span>
   <span id="f000821">and not for honor.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">“Gain?” repeated Villon with a shrug.</span>
   <span id="f000823">“Gain!</span>
   <span id="f000824">The poor fellow wants supper,</span>
   <span id="f000825">and takes it.</span>
   <span id="f000826">So does the soldier in a campaign.</span>
   <span id="f000827">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000828">what are all these requisitions we hear so much about?</span>
   <span id="f000829">If they are not gain to those who take them,</span>
   <span id="f000830">they are loss enough to the others.</span>
   <span id="f000831">The men-at-arms drink by a good fire,</span>
   <span id="f000832">while the burgher bites his nails to buy them wine and wood.</span>
   <span id="f000833">I have seen a good many ploughmen swinging on trees about the country;</span>
   <span id="f000834">ay,</span>
   <span id="f000835">I have seen thirty on one elm,</span>
   <span id="f000836">and a very poor figure they made;</span>
   <span id="f000837">and when I asked some one how all these came to be hanged,</span>
   <span id="f000838">I was told it was because they could not scrape together enough crowns to satisfy the men-at-arms.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">“These things are a necessity of war,</span>
   <span id="f000840">which the low-born must endure with constancy.</span>
   <span id="f000841">It is true that some captains drive overhard;</span>
   <span id="f000842">there are spirits in every rank not easily moved by pity;</span>
   <span id="f000843">and,</span>
   <span id="f000844">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000845">many follow arms who are no better than brigands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">“You see,” said the poet,</span>
   <span id="f000847">“you cannot separate the soldier from the brigand;</span>
   <span id="f000848">and what is a thief but an isolated brigand with circumspect manners?</span>
   <span id="f000849">I steal a couple of mutton chops,</span>
   <span id="f000850">without so much as disturbing the farmer’s sheep;</span>
   <span id="f000851">the farmer grumbles a bit,</span>
   <span id="f000852">but sups none the less wholesomely on what remains.</span>
   <span id="f000853">You come up blowing gloriously on a trumpet,</span>
   <span id="f000854">take away the whole sheep,</span>
   <span id="f000855">and beat the farmer pitifully into the bargain.</span>
   <span id="f000856">I have no trumpet;</span>
   <span id="f000857">I am only Tom,</span>
   <span id="f000858">Dick,</span>
   <span id="f000859">or Harry;</span>
   <span id="f000860">I am a rogue and a dog,</span>
   <span id="f000861">and hanging’s too good for me – with all my heart – but just you ask the farmer which of us he prefers,</span>
   <span id="f000862">just find out which of us he lies awake to curse on cold nights.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">“Look at us two,” said his lordship.</span>
   <span id="f000864">“I am old,</span>
   <span id="f000865">strong,</span>
   <span id="f000866">and honored.</span>
   <span id="f000867">If I were turned from my house to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000868">hundreds would be proud to shelter me.</span>
   <span id="f000869">Poor people would go out and pass the night in the streets with their children,</span>
   <span id="f000870">if I merely hinted that I wished to be alone.</span>
   <span id="f000871">And I find you up,</span>
   <span id="f000872">wandering homeless,</span>
   <span id="f000873">and picking farthings off dead women by the wayside!</span>
   <span id="f000874">I fear no man and nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000875">I have seen you tremble and lose countenance at a word.</span>
   <span id="f000876">I wait God’s summons contentedly in my own house,</span>
   <span id="f000877">or,</span>
   <span id="f000878">if it please the king to call me out again,</span>
   <span id="f000879">upon the field of battle.</span>
   <span id="f000880">You look for the gallows;</span>
   <span id="f000881">a rough,</span>
   <span id="f000882">swift death,</span>
   <span id="f000883">without hope or honor.</span>
   <span id="f000884">Is there no difference between these two?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000885">“As far as to the moon,” Villon acquiesced.</span>
   <span id="f000886">“But if I had been born lord of Brisetout,</span>
   <span id="f000887">and you had been the poor scholar Francis,</span>
   <span id="f000888">would the difference have been any the less?</span>
   <span id="f000889">Should not I have been warming my knees at this charcoal pan,</span>
   <span id="f000890">and would not you have been groping for farthings in the snow?</span>
   <span id="f000891">Should not I have been the soldier,</span>
   <span id="f000892">and you the thief?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000893">“A thief!” cried the old man.</span>
   <span id="f000894">“I a thief!</span>
   <span id="f000895">If you understood your words,</span>
   <span id="f000896">you would repent them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000897">Villon turned out his hands with a gesture of inimitable impudence.</span>
   <span id="f000898">“If your lordship had done me the honor to follow my argument!” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000899">“I do you too much honor in submitting to your presence,” said the knight.</span>
   <span id="f000900">“Learn to curb your tongue when you speak with old and honorable men,</span>
   <span id="f000901">or some one hastier than I may reprove you in a sharper fashion.” And he rose and paced the lower end of the apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000902">struggling with anger and antipathy.</span>
   <span id="f000903">Villon surreptitiously refilled his cup,</span>
   <span id="f000904">and settled himself more comfortably in the chair,</span>
   <span id="f000905">crossing his knees and leaning his head upon one hand and the elbow against the back of the chair.</span>
   <span id="f000906">He was now replete and warm;</span>
   <span id="f000907">and he was in nowise frightened for his host,</span>
   <span id="f000908">having gauged him as justly as was possible between two such different characters.</span>
   <span id="f000909">The night was far spent,</span>
   <span id="f000910">and in a very comfortable fashion after all;</span>
   <span id="f000911">and he felt morally certain of a safe departure on the morrow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000912">“Tell me one thing,” said the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000913">pausing in his walk.</span>
   <span id="f000914">“Are you really a thief?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000915">“I claim the sacred rights of hospitality,” returned the poet.</span>
   <span id="f000916">“My lord,</span>
   <span id="f000917">I am.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000918">“You are very young,” the knight continued.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000919">“I should never have been so old,” replied Villon;</span>
   <span id="f000920">showing his fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000921">“if I had not helped myself with these ten talents.</span>
   <span id="f000922">They have been my nursing mothers and my nursing fathers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000923">“You may still repent and change.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000924">“I repent daily,” said the poet.</span>
   <span id="f000925">“There are few people more given to repentance than poor Francis.</span>
   <span id="f000926">As for change,</span>
   <span id="f000927">let somebody change my circumstances.</span>
   <span id="f000928">A man must continue to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000929">if it were only that he may continue to repent.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000930">“The change must begin in the heart,” returned the old man solemnly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000931">“My dear lord,” answered Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000932">“do you really fancy that I steal for pleasure?</span>
   <span id="f000933">I hate stealing,</span>
   <span id="f000934">like any other piece of work or danger.</span>
   <span id="f000935">My teeth chatter when I see a gallows.</span>
   <span id="f000936">But I must eat,</span>
   <span id="f000937">I must drink,</span>
   <span id="f000938">I must mix in society of some sort.</span>
   <span id="f000939">What the devil!</span>
   <span id="f000940">Man is not a solitary animal – <em>Cui Deus foeminam tradit</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000941">Make me king’s pantler – make me abbot of St.&#160;Denis;</span>
   <span id="f000942">make me bailly of the Patatrac;</span>
   <span id="f000943">and then I shall be changed indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000944">But as long as you leave me the poor scholar Francis Villon,</span>
   <span id="f000945">without a farthing,</span>
   <span id="f000946">why,</span>
   <span id="f000947">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000948">I remain the same.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000949">“The grace of God is all-powerful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">“I should be a heretic to question it,” said Francis.</span>
   <span id="f000951">“It has made you lord of Brisetout,</span>
   <span id="f000952">and bailly of the Patatrac;</span>
   <span id="f000953">it has given me nothing but the quick wits under my hat and these ten toes upon my hands.</span>
   <span id="f000954">May I help myself to wine?</span>
   <span id="f000955">I thank you respectfully.</span>
   <span id="f000956">By God’s grace,</span>
   <span id="f000957">you have a very superior vintage.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000958">The lord of Brisetout walked to and fro with his hands behind his back.</span>
   <span id="f000959">Perhaps he was not yet quite settled in his mind about the parallel between thieves and soldiers;</span>
   <span id="f000960">perhaps Villon had interested him by some cross-thread of sympathy;</span>
   <span id="f000961">perhaps his wits were simply muddled by so much unfamiliar reasoning;</span>
   <span id="f000962">but whatever the cause,</span>
   <span id="f000963">he somehow yearned to convert the young man to a better way of thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and could not make up his mind to drive him forth again into the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000965">“There is something more than I can understand in this,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000966">at length.</span>
   <span id="f000967">“Your mouth is full of subtleties,</span>
   <span id="f000968">and the devil has led you very far astray;</span>
   <span id="f000969">but the devil is only a very weak spirit before God’s truth,</span>
   <span id="f000970">and all his subtleties vanish at a word of true honor,</span>
   <span id="f000971">like darkness at morning.</span>
   <span id="f000972">Listen to me once more.</span>
   <span id="f000973">I learned long ago that a gentleman should live chivalrously and lovingly to God,</span>
   <span id="f000974">and the king,</span>
   <span id="f000975">and his lady;</span>
   <span id="f000976">and though I have seen many strange things done,</span>
   <span id="f000977">I have still striven to command my ways upon that rule.</span>
   <span id="f000978">It is not only written in all noble histories,</span>
   <span id="f000979">but in every man’s heart,</span>
   <span id="f000980">if he will take care to read.</span>
   <span id="f000981">You speak of food and wine,</span>
   <span id="f000982">and I know very well that hunger is a difficult trial to endure;</span>
   <span id="f000983">but you do not speak of other wants;</span>
   <span id="f000984">you say nothing of honor,</span>
   <span id="f000985">of faith to God and other men,</span>
   <span id="f000986">of courtesy,</span>
   <span id="f000987">of love without reproach.</span>
   <span id="f000988">It may be that I am not very wise – and yet I think I am – but you seem to me like one who has lost his way and made a great error in life.</span>
   <span id="f000989">You are attending to the little wants,</span>
   <span id="f000990">and you have totally forgotten the great and only real ones,</span>
   <span id="f000991">like a man who should be doctoring a toothache on the Judgment Day.</span>
   <span id="f000992">For such things as honor and love and faith are not only nobler than food and drink,</span>
   <span id="f000993">but,</span>
   <span id="f000994">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000995">I think that we desire them more,</span>
   <span id="f000996">and suffer more sharply for their absence.</span>
   <span id="f000997">I speak to you as I think you will most easily understand me.</span>
   <span id="f000998">Are you not,</span>
   <span id="f000999">while careful to fill your belly,</span>
   <span id="f001000">disregarding another appetite in your heart,</span>
   <span id="f001001">which spoils the pleasure of your life and keeps you continually wretched?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001002">Villon was sensibly nettled under all this sermonizing.</span>
   <span id="f001003">“You think I have no sense of honor!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f001004">“I’m poor enough,</span>
   <span id="f001005">God knows!</span>
   <span id="f001006">It’s hard to see rich people with their gloves,</span>
   <span id="f001007">and you blowing your hands.</span>
   <span id="f001008">An empty belly is a bitter thing,</span>
   <span id="f001009">although you speak so lightly of it.</span>
   <span id="f001010">If you had had as many as I,</span>
   <span id="f001011">perhaps you would change your tune.</span>
   <span id="f001012">Anyway,</span>
   <span id="f001013">I’m a thief – make the most of that – but I’m not a devil from hell,</span>
   <span id="f001014">God strike me dead.</span>
   <span id="f001015">I would have you to know I’ve an honor of my own,</span>
   <span id="f001016">as good as yours,</span>
   <span id="f001017">though I don’t prate about it all day long,</span>
   <span id="f001018">as if it were a God’s miracle to have any.</span>
   <span id="f001019">It seems quite natural to me;</span>
   <span id="f001020">I keep it in its box till it’s wanted.</span>
   <span id="f001021">Why now,</span>
   <span id="f001022">look you here,</span>
   <span id="f001023">how long have I been in this room with you?</span>
   <span id="f001024">Did you not tell me you were alone in the house?</span>
   <span id="f001025">Look at your gold plate!</span>
   <span id="f001026">You’re strong,</span>
   <span id="f001027">if you like,</span>
   <span id="f001028">but you’re old and unarmed,</span>
   <span id="f001029">and I have my knife.</span>
   <span id="f001030">What did I want but a jerk of the elbow,</span>
   <span id="f001031">and here would have been you with the cold steel in your bowels,</span>
   <span id="f001032">and there would have been me,</span>
   <span id="f001033">linking in the streets,</span>
   <span id="f001034">with an armful of gold cups!</span>
   <span id="f001035">Did you suppose I hadn’t wit enough to see that?</span>
   <span id="f001036">And I scorned the action.</span>
   <span id="f001037">There are your damned goblets,</span>
   <span id="f001038">as safe as in a church;</span>
   <span id="f001039">there are you,</span>
   <span id="f001040">with your heart ticking as good as new;</span>
   <span id="f001041">and here am I,</span>
   <span id="f001042">ready to go out again as poor as I came in,</span>
   <span id="f001043">with my one white that you threw in my teeth!</span>
   <span id="f001044">And you think I have no sense of honor – God strike me dead!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001045">The old man stretched out his right arm.</span>
   <span id="f001046">“I will tell you what you are,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f001047">“You are a rogue,</span>
   <span id="f001048">my man,</span>
   <span id="f001049">an impudent and a black-hearted rogue and vagabond.</span>
   <span id="f001050">I have passed an hour with you.</span>
   <span id="f001051">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f001052">believe me,</span>
   <span id="f001053">I feel myself disgraced!</span>
   <span id="f001054">And you have eaten and drank at my table.</span>
   <span id="f001055">But now I am sick at your presence;</span>
   <span id="f001056">the day has come,</span>
   <span id="f001057">and the night-bird should be off to his roost.</span>
   <span id="f001058">Will you go before,</span>
   <span id="f001059">or after?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001060">“Which you please,” returned the poet,</span>
   <span id="f001061">rising.</span>
   <span id="f001062">“I believe you to be strictly honorable.” He thoughtfully emptied his cup.</span>
   <span id="f001063">“I wish I could add you were intelligent,” he went on,</span>
   <span id="f001064">knocking on his head with his knuckles.</span>
   <span id="f001065">“Age,</span>
   <span id="f001066">age!</span>
   <span id="f001067">the brains stiff and rheumatic.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001068">The old man preceded him from a point of self-respect;</span>
   <span id="f001069">Villon followed,</span>
   <span id="f001070">whistling,</span>
   <span id="f001071">with his thumbs in his girdle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001072">“God pity you,” said the lord of Brisetout at the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001073">“Good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f001074">papa,” returned Villon,</span>
   <span id="f001075">with a yawn.</span>
   <span id="f001076">“Many thanks for the cold mutton.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001077">The door closed behind him.</span>
   <span id="f001078">The dawn was breaking over the white roofs.</span>
   <span id="f001079">A chill,</span>
   <span id="f001080">uncomfortable morning ushered in the day.</span>
   <span id="f001081">Villon stood and heartily stretched himself in the middle of the road.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001082">“A very dull old gentleman,” he thought.</span>
   <span id="f001083">“I wonder what his goblets may be worth.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

