<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mike Harris</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Canterville Ghost</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Oscar Wilde</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000007">I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000008">When Mr.&#160;Hiram B.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000010">the American Minister,</span>
   <span id="f000011">bought Canterville Chase,</span>
   <span id="f000012">every one told him he was doing a very foolish thing,</span>
   <span id="f000013">as there was no doubt at all that the place was haunted.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000015">Lord Canterville himself,</span>
   <span id="f000016">who was a man of the most punctilious honour,</span>
   <span id="f000017">had felt it his duty to mention the fact to Mr.&#160;Otis when they came to discuss terms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">“We have not cared to live in the place ourselves,” said Lord Canterville,</span>
   <span id="f000019">“since my grandaunt,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the Dowager Duchess of Bolton,</span>
   <span id="f000021">was frightened into a fit,</span>
   <span id="f000022">from which she never really recovered,</span>
   <span id="f000023">by two skeleton hands being placed on her shoulders as she was dressing for dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and I feel bound to tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000025">Mr.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000026">that the ghost has been seen by several living members of my family,</span>
   <span id="f000027">as well as by the rector of the parish,</span>
   <span id="f000028">the Rev.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Augustus Dampier,</span>
   <span id="f000030">who is a Fellow of King’s College,</span>
   <span id="f000031">Cambridge.</span>
   <span id="f000032">After the unfortunate accident to the Duchess,</span>
   <span id="f000033">none of our younger servants would stay with us,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and Lady Canterville often got very little sleep at night,</span>
   <span id="f000035">in consequence of the mysterious noises that came from the corridor and the library.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“My Lord,” answered the Minister,</span>
   <span id="f000037">“I will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation.</span>
   <span id="f000038">I have come from a modern country,</span>
   <span id="f000039">where we have everything that money can buy;</span>
   <span id="f000040">and with all our spry young fellows painting the Old World red,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and carrying off your best actors and prima-donnas,</span>
   <span id="f000042">I reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000043">we’d have it at home in a very short time in one of our public museums,</span>
   <span id="f000044">or on the road as a show.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">“I fear that the ghost exists,” said Lord Canterville,</span>
   <span id="f000046">smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000047">“though it may have resisted the overtures of your enterprising impresarios.</span>
   <span id="f000048">It has been well known for three centuries,</span>
   <span id="f000049">since 1584 in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and always makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000052">so does the family doctor for that matter,</span>
   <span id="f000053">Lord Canterville.</span>
   <span id="f000054">But there is no such thing,</span>
   <span id="f000055">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000056">as a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and I guess the laws of Nature are not going to be suspended for the British aristocracy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“You are certainly very natural in America,” answered Lord Canterville,</span>
   <span id="f000059">who did not quite understand Mr.&#160;Otis’s last observation,</span>
   <span id="f000060">“and if you don’t mind a ghost in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000061">it is all right.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Only you must remember I warned you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">A few weeks after this,</span>
   <span id="f000064">the purchase was concluded,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and at the close of the season the Minister and his family went down to Canterville Chase.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Mrs.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000067">who,</span>
   <span id="f000068">as Miss Lucretia R.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Tappan,</span>
   <span id="f000070">of West 53d Street,</span>
   <span id="f000071">had been a celebrated New York belle,</span>
   <span id="f000072">was now a very handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000073">middle-aged woman,</span>
   <span id="f000074">with fine eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and a superb profile.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Many American ladies on leaving their native land adopt an appearance of chronic ill-health,</span>
   <span id="f000077">under the impression that it is a form of European refinement,</span>
   <span id="f000078">but Mrs.&#160;Otis had never fallen into this error.</span>
   <span id="f000079">She had a magnificent constitution,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and a really wonderful amount of animal spirits.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000082">in many respects,</span>
   <span id="f000083">she was quite English,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and was an excellent example of the fact that we have really everything in common with America nowadays,</span>
   <span id="f000085">except,</span>
   <span id="f000086">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000087">language.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Her eldest son,</span>
   <span id="f000089">christened Washington by his parents in a moment of patriotism,</span>
   <span id="f000090">which he never ceased to regret,</span>
   <span id="f000091">was a fair-haired,</span>
   <span id="f000092">rather good-looking young man,</span>
   <span id="f000093">who had qualified himself for American diplomacy by leading the German at the Newport Casino for three successive seasons,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and even in London was well known as an excellent dancer.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Gardenias and the peerage were his only weaknesses.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Otherwise he was extremely sensible.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Miss Virginia E.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Otis was a little girl of fifteen,</span>
   <span id="f000099">lithe and lovely as a fawn,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and with a fine freedom in her large blue eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000101">She was a wonderful Amazon,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and had once raced old Lord Bilton on her pony twice round the park,</span>
   <span id="f000103">winning by a length and a half,</span>
   <span id="f000104">just in front of the Achilles statue,</span>
   <span id="f000105">to the huge delight of the young Duke of Cheshire,</span>
   <span id="f000106">who proposed for her on the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and was sent back to Eton that very night by his guardians,</span>
   <span id="f000108">in floods of tears.</span>
   <span id="f000109">After Virginia came the twins,</span>
   <span id="f000110">who were usually called “The Star and Stripes,” as they were always getting swished.</span>
   <span id="f000111">They were delightful boys,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and,</span>
   <span id="f000113">with the exception of the worthy Minister,</span>
   <span id="f000114">the only true republicans of the family.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">As Canterville Chase is seven miles from Ascot,</span>
   <span id="f000116">the nearest railway station,</span>
   <span id="f000117">Mr.&#160;Otis had telegraphed for a waggonette to meet them,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and they started on their drive in high spirits.</span>
   <span id="f000119">It was a lovely July evening,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and the air was delicate with the scent of the pinewoods.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Now and then they heard a wood-pigeon brooding over its own sweet voice,</span>
   <span id="f000122">or saw,</span>
   <span id="f000123">deep in the rustling fern,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the burnished breast of the pheasant.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Little squirrels peered at them from the beech-trees as they went by,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and the rabbits scudded away through the brushwood and over the mossy knolls,</span>
   <span id="f000127">with their white tails in the air.</span>
   <span id="f000128">As they entered the avenue of Canterville Chase,</span>
   <span id="f000129">however,</span>
   <span id="f000130">the sky became suddenly overcast with clouds,</span>
   <span id="f000131">a curious stillness seemed to hold the atmosphere,</span>
   <span id="f000132">a great flight of rooks passed silently over their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and,</span>
   <span id="f000134">before they reached the house,</span>
   <span id="f000135">some big drops of rain had fallen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">Standing on the steps to receive them was an old woman,</span>
   <span id="f000137">neatly dressed in black silk,</span>
   <span id="f000138">with a white cap and apron.</span>
   <span id="f000139">This was Mrs.&#160;Umney,</span>
   <span id="f000140">the housekeeper,</span>
   <span id="f000141">whom Mrs.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000142">at Lady Canterville’s earnest request,</span>
   <span id="f000143">had consented to keep in her former position.</span>
   <span id="f000144">She made them each a low curtsey as they alighted,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and said in a quaint,</span>
   <span id="f000146">old-fashioned manner,</span>
   <span id="f000147">“I bid you welcome to Canterville Chase.” Following her,</span>
   <span id="f000148">they passed through the fine Tudor hall into the library,</span>
   <span id="f000149">a long,</span>
   <span id="f000150">low room,</span>
   <span id="f000151">panelled in black oak,</span>
   <span id="f000152">at the end of which was a large stained glass window.</span>
   <span id="f000153">Here they found tea laid out for them,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and,</span>
   <span id="f000155">after taking off their wraps,</span>
   <span id="f000156">they sat down and began to look round,</span>
   <span id="f000157">while Mrs.&#160;Umney waited on them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">Suddenly Mrs.&#160;Otis caught sight of a dull red stain on the floor just by the fireplace,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and,</span>
   <span id="f000160">quite unconscious of what it really signified,</span>
   <span id="f000161">said to Mrs.&#160;Umney,</span>
   <span id="f000162">“I am afraid something has been spilt there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000164">madam,” replied the old housekeeper in a low voice,</span>
   <span id="f000165">“blood has been spilt on that spot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“How horrid!” cried Mrs.&#160;Otis;</span>
   <span id="f000167">“I don’t at all care for blood-stains in a sitting-room.</span>
   <span id="f000168">It must be removed at once.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">The old woman smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and answered in the same low,</span>
   <span id="f000171">mysterious voice,</span>
   <span id="f000172">“It is the blood of Lady Eleanore de Canterville,</span>
   <span id="f000173">who was murdered on that very spot by her own husband,</span>
   <span id="f000174">Sir Simon de Canterville,</span>
   <span id="f000175">in 1575.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Sir Simon survived her nine years,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and disappeared suddenly under very mysterious circumstances.</span>
   <span id="f000178">His body has never been discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000179">but his guilty spirit still haunts the Chase.</span>
   <span id="f000180">The blood-stain has been much admired by tourists and others,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and cannot be removed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“That is all nonsense,” cried Washington Otis;</span>
   <span id="f000183">“Pinkerton’s Champion Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent will clean it up in no time,” and before the terrified housekeeper could interfere,</span>
   <span id="f000184">he had fallen upon his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and was rapidly scouring the floor with a small stick of what looked like a black cosmetic.</span>
   <span id="f000186">In a few moments no trace of the blood-stain could be seen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“I knew Pinkerton would do it,” he exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000188">triumphantly,</span>
   <span id="f000189">as he looked round at his admiring family;</span>
   <span id="f000190">but no sooner had he said these words than a terrible flash of lightning lit up the sombre room,</span>
   <span id="f000191">a fearful peal of thunder made them all start to their feet,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and Mrs.&#160;Umney fainted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“What a monstrous climate!” said the American Minister,</span>
   <span id="f000194">calmly,</span>
   <span id="f000195">as he lit a long cheroot.</span>
   <span id="f000196">“I guess the old country is so overpopulated that they have not enough decent weather for everybody.</span>
   <span id="f000197">I have always been of opinion that emigration is the only thing for England.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“My dear Hiram,” cried Mrs.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000199">“what can we do with a woman who faints?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“Charge it to her like breakages,” answered the Minister;</span>
   <span id="f000201">“she won’t faint after that;” and in a few moments Mrs.&#160;Umney certainly came to.</span>
   <span id="f000202">There was no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000203">however,</span>
   <span id="f000204">that she was extremely upset,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and she sternly warned Mr.&#160;Otis to beware of some trouble coming to the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“I have seen things with my own eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000207">sir,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000208">“that would make any Christian’s hair stand on end,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and many and many a night I have not closed my eyes in sleep for the awful things that are done here.” Mr.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000210">however,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and his wife warmly assured the honest soul that they were not afraid of ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and,</span>
   <span id="f000213">after invoking the blessings of Providence on her new master and mistress,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and making arrangements for an increase of salary,</span>
   <span id="f000215">the old housekeeper tottered off to her own room.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000216">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000217">The storm raged fiercely all that night,</span>
   <span id="f000218">but nothing of particular note occurred.</span>
   <span id="f000219">The next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000220">however,</span>
   <span id="f000221">when they came down to breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000222">they found the terrible stain of blood once again on the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000223">“I don’t think it can be the fault of the Paragon Detergent,” said Washington,</span>
   <span id="f000224">“for I have tried it with everything.</span>
   <span id="f000225">It must be the ghost.” He accordingly rubbed out the stain a second time,</span>
   <span id="f000226">but the second morning it appeared again.</span>
   <span id="f000227">The third morning also it was there,</span>
   <span id="f000228">though the library had been locked up at night by Mr.&#160;Otis himself,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and the key carried up-stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000230">The whole family were now quite interested;</span>
   <span id="f000231">Mr.&#160;Otis began to suspect that he had been too dogmatic in his denial of the existence of ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000232">Mrs.&#160;Otis expressed her intention of joining the Psychical Society,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and Washington prepared a long letter to Messrs.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Myers and Podmore on the subject of the Permanence of Sanguineous Stains when connected with Crime.</span>
   <span id="f000235">That night all doubts about the objective existence of phantasmata were removed for ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">The day had been warm and sunny;</span>
   <span id="f000237">and,</span>
   <span id="f000238">in the cool of the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000239">the whole family went out to drive.</span>
   <span id="f000240">They did not return home till nine o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000241">when they had a light supper.</span>
   <span id="f000242">The conversation in no way turned upon ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000243">so there were not even those primary conditions of receptive expectations which so often precede the presentation of psychical phenomena.</span>
   <span id="f000244">The subjects discussed,</span>
   <span id="f000245">as I have since learned from Mr.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000246">were merely such as form the ordinary conversation of cultured Americans of the better class,</span>
   <span id="f000247">such as the immense superiority of Miss Fanny Devonport over Sarah Bernhardt as an actress;</span>
   <span id="f000248">the difficulty of obtaining green corn,</span>
   <span id="f000249">buckwheat cakes,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and hominy,</span>
   <span id="f000251">even in the best English houses;</span>
   <span id="f000252">the importance of Boston in the development of the world-soul;</span>
   <span id="f000253">the advantages of the baggage-check system in railway travelling;</span>
   <span id="f000254">and the sweetness of the New York accent as compared to the London drawl.</span>
   <span id="f000255">No mention at all was made of the supernatural,</span>
   <span id="f000256">nor was Sir Simon de Canterville alluded to in any way.</span>
   <span id="f000257">At eleven o’clock the family retired,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and by half-past all the lights were out.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Some time after,</span>
   <span id="f000260">Mr.&#160;Otis was awakened by a curious noise in the corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000261">outside his room.</span>
   <span id="f000262">It sounded like the clank of metal,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and seemed to be coming nearer every moment.</span>
   <span id="f000264">He got up at once,</span>
   <span id="f000265">struck a match,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and looked at the time.</span>
   <span id="f000267">It was exactly one o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000268">He was quite calm,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and felt his pulse,</span>
   <span id="f000270">which was not at all feverish.</span>
   <span id="f000271">The strange noise still continued,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and with it he heard distinctly the sound of footsteps.</span>
   <span id="f000273">He put on his slippers,</span>
   <span id="f000274">took a small oblong phial out of his dressing-case,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and opened the door.</span>
   <span id="f000276">Right in front of him he saw,</span>
   <span id="f000277">in the wan moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000278">an old man of terrible aspect.</span>
   <span id="f000279">His eyes were as red burning coals;</span>
   <span id="f000280">long grey hair fell over his shoulders in matted coils;</span>
   <span id="f000281">his garments,</span>
   <span id="f000282">which were of antique cut,</span>
   <span id="f000283">were soiled and ragged,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and from his wrists and ankles hung heavy manacles and rusty gyves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">“My dear sir,” said Mr.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000286">“I really must insist on your oiling those chains,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and have brought you for that purpose a small bottle of the Tammany Rising Sun Lubricator.</span>
   <span id="f000288">It is said to be completely efficacious upon one application,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and there are several testimonials to that effect on the wrapper from some of our most eminent native divines.</span>
   <span id="f000290">I shall leave it here for you by the bedroom candles,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and will be happy to supply you with more,</span>
   <span id="f000292">should you require it.” With these words the United States Minister laid the bottle down on a marble table,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and,</span>
   <span id="f000294">closing his door,</span>
   <span id="f000295">retired to rest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">For a moment the Canterville ghost stood quite motionless in natural indignation;</span>
   <span id="f000297">then,</span>
   <span id="f000298">dashing the bottle violently upon the polished floor,</span>
   <span id="f000299">he fled down the corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000300">uttering hollow groans,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and emitting a ghastly green light.</span>
   <span id="f000302">Just,</span>
   <span id="f000303">however,</span>
   <span id="f000304">as he reached the top of the great oak staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000305">a door was flung open,</span>
   <span id="f000306">two little white-robed figures appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and a large pillow whizzed past his head!</span>
   <span id="f000308">There was evidently no time to be lost,</span>
   <span id="f000309">so,</span>
   <span id="f000310">hastily adopting the Fourth dimension of Space as a means of escape,</span>
   <span id="f000311">he vanished through the wainscoting,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and the house became quite quiet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">On reaching a small secret chamber in the left wing,</span>
   <span id="f000314">he leaned up against a moonbeam to recover his breath,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and began to try and realize his position.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Never,</span>
   <span id="f000317">in a brilliant and uninterrupted career of three hundred years,</span>
   <span id="f000318">had he been so grossly insulted.</span>
   <span id="f000319">He thought of the Dowager Duchess,</span>
   <span id="f000320">whom he had frightened into a fit as she stood before the glass in her lace and diamonds;</span>
   <span id="f000321">of the four housemaids,</span>
   <span id="f000322">who had gone into hysterics when he merely grinned at them through the curtains on one of the spare bedrooms;</span>
   <span id="f000323">of the rector of the parish,</span>
   <span id="f000324">whose candle he had blown out as he was coming late one night from the library,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and who had been under the care of Sir William Gull ever since,</span>
   <span id="f000326">a perfect martyr to nervous disorders;</span>
   <span id="f000327">and of old Madame de Tremouillac,</span>
   <span id="f000328">who,</span>
   <span id="f000329">having wakened up one morning early and seen a skeleton seated in an armchair by the fire reading her diary,</span>
   <span id="f000330">had been confined to her bed for six weeks with an attack of brain fever,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and,</span>
   <span id="f000332">on her recovery,</span>
   <span id="f000333">had become reconciled to the Church,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and broken off her connection with that notorious sceptic,</span>
   <span id="f000335">Monsieur de Voltaire.</span>
   <span id="f000336">He remembered the terrible night when the wicked Lord Canterville was found choking in his dressing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000337">with the knave of diamonds half-way down his throat,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and confessed,</span>
   <span id="f000339">just before he died,</span>
   <span id="f000340">that he had cheated Charles James Fox out of £50,000 at Crockford’s by means of that very card,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and swore that the ghost had made him swallow it.</span>
   <span id="f000342">All his great achievements came back to him again,</span>
   <span id="f000343">from the butler who had shot himself in the pantry because he had seen a green hand tapping at the window-pane,</span>
   <span id="f000344">to the beautiful Lady Stutfield,</span>
   <span id="f000345">who was always obliged to wear a black velvet band round her throat to hide the mark of five fingers burnt upon her white skin,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and who drowned herself at last in the carp-pond at the end of the King’s Walk.</span>
   <span id="f000347">With the enthusiastic egotism of the true artist,</span>
   <span id="f000348">he went over his most celebrated performances,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and smiled bitterly to himself as he recalled to mind his last appearance as “Red Reuben,</span>
   <span id="f000350">or the Strangled Babe,” his <em>début</em> as “Guant Gibeon,</span>
   <span id="f000351">the Blood-sucker of Bexley Moor,” and the <em>furore</em> he had excited one lovely June evening by merely playing ninepins with his own bones upon the lawn-tennis ground.</span>
   <span id="f000352">And after all this some wretched modern Americans were to come and offer him the Rising Sun Lubricator,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and throw pillows at his head!</span>
   <span id="f000354">It was quite unbearable.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000356">no ghost in history had ever been treated in this manner.</span>
   <span id="f000357">Accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f000358">he determined to have vengeance,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and remained till daylight in an attitude of deep thought.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000360">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000361">The next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000362">when the Otis family met at breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000363">they discussed the ghost at some length.</span>
   <span id="f000364">The United States Minister was naturally a little annoyed to find that his present had not been accepted.</span>
   <span id="f000365">“I have no wish,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000366">“to do the ghost any personal injury,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and I must say that,</span>
   <span id="f000368">considering the length of time he has been in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000369">I don’t think it is at all polite to throw pillows at him,” – a very just remark,</span>
   <span id="f000370">at which,</span>
   <span id="f000371">I am sorry to say,</span>
   <span id="f000372">the twins burst into shouts of laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000373">“Upon the other hand,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000374">“if he really declines to use the Rising Sun Lubricator,</span>
   <span id="f000375">we shall have to take his chains from him.</span>
   <span id="f000376">It would be quite impossible to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000377">with such a noise going on outside the bedrooms.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">For the rest of the week,</span>
   <span id="f000379">however,</span>
   <span id="f000380">they were undisturbed,</span>
   <span id="f000381">the only thing that excited any attention being the continual renewal of the blood-stain on the library floor.</span>
   <span id="f000382">This certainly was very strange,</span>
   <span id="f000383">as the door was always locked at night by Mr.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and the windows kept closely barred.</span>
   <span id="f000385">The chameleon-like colour,</span>
   <span id="f000386">also,</span>
   <span id="f000387">of the stain excited a good deal of comment.</span>
   <span id="f000388">Some mornings it was a dull</span>
   <span id="f000389">(almost Indian)</span>
   <span id="f000390">red,</span>
   <span id="f000391">then it would be vermilion,</span>
   <span id="f000392">then a rich purple,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and once when they came down for family prayers,</span>
   <span id="f000394">according to the simple rites of the Free American Reformed Episcopalian Church,</span>
   <span id="f000395">they found it a bright emerald-green.</span>
   <span id="f000396">These kaleidoscopic changes naturally amused the party very much,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and bets on the subject were freely made every evening.</span>
   <span id="f000398">The only person who did not enter into the joke was little Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f000399">who,</span>
   <span id="f000400">for some unexplained reason,</span>
   <span id="f000401">was always a good deal distressed at the sight of the blood-stain,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and very nearly cried the morning it was emerald-green.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">The second appearance of the ghost was on Sunday night.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Shortly after they had gone to bed they were suddenly alarmed by a fearful crash in the hall.</span>
   <span id="f000405">Rushing down-stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000406">they found that a large suit of old armour had become detached from its stand,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and had fallen on the stone floor,</span>
   <span id="f000408">while seated in a high-backed chair was the Canterville ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000409">rubbing his knees with an expression of acute agony on his face.</span>
   <span id="f000410">The twins,</span>
   <span id="f000411">having brought their pea-shooters with them,</span>
   <span id="f000412">at once discharged two pellets on him,</span>
   <span id="f000413">with that accuracy of aim which can only be attained by long and careful practice on a writing-master,</span>
   <span id="f000414">while the United States Minister covered him with his revolver,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and called upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000416">in accordance with Californian etiquette,</span>
   <span id="f000417">to hold up his hands!</span>
   <span id="f000418">The ghost started up with a wild shriek of rage,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and swept through them like a mist,</span>
   <span id="f000420">extinguishing Washington Otis’s candle as he passed,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and so leaving them all in total darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000422">On reaching the top of the staircase he recovered himself,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and determined to give his celebrated peal of demoniac laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000424">This he had on more than one occasion found extremely useful.</span>
   <span id="f000425">It was said to have turned Lord Raker’s wig grey in a single night,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and had certainly made three of Lady Canterville’s French governesses give warning before their month was up.</span>
   <span id="f000427">He accordingly laughed his most horrible laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000428">till the old vaulted roof rang and rang again,</span>
   <span id="f000429">but hardly had the fearful echo died away when a door opened,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and Mrs.&#160;Otis came out in a light blue dressing-gown.</span>
   <span id="f000431">“I am afraid you are far from well,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000432">“and have brought you a bottle of Doctor Dobell’s tincture.</span>
   <span id="f000433">If it is indigestion,</span>
   <span id="f000434">you will find it a most excellent remedy.” The ghost glared at her in fury,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and began at once to make preparations for turning himself into a large black dog,</span>
   <span id="f000436">an accomplishment for which he was justly renowned,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and to which the family doctor always attributed the permanent idiocy of Lord Canterville’s uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000438">the Hon.</span>
   <span id="f000439">Thomas Horton.</span>
   <span id="f000440">The sound of approaching footsteps,</span>
   <span id="f000441">however,</span>
   <span id="f000442">made him hesitate in his fell purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000443">so he contented himself with becoming faintly phosphorescent,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and vanished with a deep churchyard groan,</span>
   <span id="f000445">just as the twins had come up to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">On reaching his room he entirely broke down,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and became a prey to the most violent agitation.</span>
   <span id="f000448">The vulgarity of the twins,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and the gross materialism of Mrs.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000450">were naturally extremely annoying,</span>
   <span id="f000451">but what really distressed him most was that he had been unable to wear the suit of mail.</span>
   <span id="f000452">He had hoped that even modern Americans would be thrilled by the sight of a Spectre in armour,</span>
   <span id="f000453">if for no more sensible reason,</span>
   <span id="f000454">at least out of respect for their natural poet Longfellow,</span>
   <span id="f000455">over whose graceful and attractive poetry he himself had whiled away many a weary hour when the Cantervilles were up in town.</span>
   <span id="f000456">Besides it was his own suit.</span>
   <span id="f000457">He had worn it with great success at the Kenilworth tournament,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and had been highly complimented on it by no less a person than the Virgin Queen herself.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Yet when he had put it on,</span>
   <span id="f000460">he had been completely overpowered by the weight of the huge breastplate and steel casque,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and had fallen heavily on the stone pavement,</span>
   <span id="f000462">barking both his knees severely,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and bruising the knuckles of his right hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">For some days after this he was extremely ill,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and hardly stirred out of his room at all,</span>
   <span id="f000466">except to keep the blood-stain in proper repair.</span>
   <span id="f000467">However,</span>
   <span id="f000468">by taking great care of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000469">he recovered,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and resolved to make a third attempt to frighten the United States Minister and his family.</span>
   <span id="f000471">He selected Friday,</span>
   <span id="f000472">August 17th,</span>
   <span id="f000473">for his appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and spent most of that day in looking over his wardrobe,</span>
   <span id="f000475">ultimately deciding in favour of a large slouched hat with a red feather,</span>
   <span id="f000476">a winding-sheet frilled at the wrists and neck,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and a rusty dagger.</span>
   <span id="f000478">Towards evening a violent storm of rain came on,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and the wind was so high that all the windows and doors in the old house shook and rattled.</span>
   <span id="f000480">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000481">it was just such weather as he loved.</span>
   <span id="f000482">His plan of action was this.</span>
   <span id="f000483">He was to make his way quietly to Washington Otis’s room,</span>
   <span id="f000484">gibber at him from the foot of the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and stab himself three times in the throat to the sound of low music.</span>
   <span id="f000486">He bore Washington a special grudge,</span>
   <span id="f000487">being quite aware that it was he who was in the habit of removing the famous Canterville blood-stain by means of Pinkerton’s Paragon Detergent.</span>
   <span id="f000488">Having reduced the reckless and foolhardy youth to a condition of abject terror,</span>
   <span id="f000489">he was then to proceed to the room occupied by the United States Minister and his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and there to place a clammy hand on Mrs.&#160;Otis’s forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000491">while he hissed into her trembling husband’s ear the awful secrets of the charnel-house.</span>
   <span id="f000492">With regard to little Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f000493">he had not quite made up his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000494">She had never insulted him in any way,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and was pretty and gentle.</span>
   <span id="f000496">A few hollow groans from the wardrobe,</span>
   <span id="f000497">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000498">would be more than sufficient,</span>
   <span id="f000499">or,</span>
   <span id="f000500">if that failed to wake her,</span>
   <span id="f000501">he might grabble at the counterpane with palsy-twitching fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000502">As for the twins,</span>
   <span id="f000503">he was quite determined to teach them a lesson.</span>
   <span id="f000504">The first thing to be done was,</span>
   <span id="f000505">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000506">to sit upon their chests,</span>
   <span id="f000507">so as to produce the stifling sensation of nightmare.</span>
   <span id="f000508">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000509">as their beds were quite close to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000510">to stand between them in the form of a green,</span>
   <span id="f000511">icy-cold corpse,</span>
   <span id="f000512">till they became paralyzed with fear,</span>
   <span id="f000513">and finally,</span>
   <span id="f000514">to throw off the winding-sheet,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and crawl round the room,</span>
   <span id="f000516">with white,</span>
   <span id="f000517">bleached bones and one rolling eyeball,</span>
   <span id="f000518">in the character of “Dumb Daniel,</span>
   <span id="f000519">or the Suicide’s Skeleton,” a <em>rôle</em> in which he had on more than one occasion produced a great effect,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and which he considered quite equal to his famous part of “Martin the Maniac,</span>
   <span id="f000521">or the Masked Mystery.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">At half-past ten he heard the family going to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000523">For some time he was disturbed by wild shrieks of laughter from the twins,</span>
   <span id="f000524">who,</span>
   <span id="f000525">with the light-hearted gaiety of schoolboys,</span>
   <span id="f000526">were evidently amusing themselves before they retired to rest,</span>
   <span id="f000527">but at a quarter-past eleven all was still,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and,</span>
   <span id="f000529">as midnight sounded,</span>
   <span id="f000530">he sallied forth.</span>
   <span id="f000531">The owl beat against the window-panes,</span>
   <span id="f000532">the raven croaked from the old yew-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and the wind wandered moaning round the house like a lost soul;</span>
   <span id="f000534">but the Otis family slept unconscious of their doom,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and high above the rain and storm he could hear the steady snoring of the Minister for the United States.</span>
   <span id="f000536">He stepped stealthily out of the wainscoting,</span>
   <span id="f000537">with an evil smile on his cruel,</span>
   <span id="f000538">wrinkled mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and the moon hid her face in a cloud as he stole past the great oriel window,</span>
   <span id="f000540">where his own arms and those of his murdered wife were blazoned in azure and gold.</span>
   <span id="f000541">On and on he glided,</span>
   <span id="f000542">like an evil shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000543">the very darkness seeming to loathe him as he passed.</span>
   <span id="f000544">Once he thought he heard something call,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and stopped;</span>
   <span id="f000546">but it was only the baying of a dog from the Red Farm,</span>
   <span id="f000547">and he went on,</span>
   <span id="f000548">muttering strange sixteenth-century curses,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and ever and anon brandishing the rusty dagger in the midnight air.</span>
   <span id="f000550">Finally he reached the corner of the passage that led to luckless Washington’s room.</span>
   <span id="f000551">For a moment he paused there,</span>
   <span id="f000552">the wind blowing his long grey locks about his head,</span>
   <span id="f000553">and twisting into grotesque and fantastic folds the nameless horror of the dead man’s shroud.</span>
   <span id="f000554">Then the clock struck the quarter,</span>
   <span id="f000555">and he felt the time was come.</span>
   <span id="f000556">He chuckled to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and turned the corner;</span>
   <span id="f000558">but no sooner had he done so than,</span>
   <span id="f000559">with a piteous wail of terror,</span>
   <span id="f000560">he fell back,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and hid his blanched face in his long,</span>
   <span id="f000562">bony hands.</span>
   <span id="f000563">Right in front of him was standing a horrible spectre,</span>
   <span id="f000564">motionless as a carven image,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and monstrous as a madman’s dream!</span>
   <span id="f000566">Its head was bald and burnished;</span>
   <span id="f000567">its face round,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and fat,</span>
   <span id="f000569">and white;</span>
   <span id="f000570">and hideous laughter seemed to have writhed its features into an eternal grin.</span>
   <span id="f000571">From the eyes streamed rays of scarlet light,</span>
   <span id="f000572">the mouth was a wide well of fire,</span>
   <span id="f000573">and a hideous garment,</span>
   <span id="f000574">like to his own,</span>
   <span id="f000575">swathed with its silent snows the Titan form.</span>
   <span id="f000576">On its breast was a placard with strange writing in antique characters,</span>
   <span id="f000577">some scroll of shame it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000578">some record of wild sins,</span>
   <span id="f000579">some awful calendar of crime,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and,</span>
   <span id="f000581">with its right hand,</span>
   <span id="f000582">it bore aloft a falchion of gleaming steel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">Never having seen a ghost before,</span>
   <span id="f000584">he naturally was terribly frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and,</span>
   <span id="f000586">after a second hasty glance at the awful phantom,</span>
   <span id="f000587">he fled back to his room,</span>
   <span id="f000588">tripping up in his long winding-sheet as he sped down the corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000589">and finally dropping the rusty dagger into the Minister’s jack-boots,</span>
   <span id="f000590">where it was found in the morning by the butler.</span>
   <span id="f000591">Once in the privacy of his own apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000592">he flung himself down on a small pallet-bed,</span>
   <span id="f000593">and hid his face under the clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000594">After a time,</span>
   <span id="f000595">however,</span>
   <span id="f000596">the brave old Canterville spirit asserted itself,</span>
   <span id="f000597">and he determined to go and speak to the other ghost as soon as it was daylight.</span>
   <span id="f000598">Accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f000599">just as the dawn was touching the hills with silver,</span>
   <span id="f000600">he returned towards the spot where he had first laid eyes on the grisly phantom,</span>
   <span id="f000601">feeling that,</span>
   <span id="f000602">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000603">two ghosts were better than one,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and that,</span>
   <span id="f000605">by the aid of his new friend,</span>
   <span id="f000606">he might safely grapple with the twins.</span>
   <span id="f000607">On reaching the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000608">however,</span>
   <span id="f000609">a terrible sight met his gaze.</span>
   <span id="f000610">Something had evidently happened to the spectre,</span>
   <span id="f000611">for the light had entirely faded from its hollow eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000612">the gleaming falchion had fallen from its hand,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and it was leaning up against the wall in a strained and uncomfortable attitude.</span>
   <span id="f000614">He rushed forward and seized it in his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000615">when,</span>
   <span id="f000616">to his horror,</span>
   <span id="f000617">the head slipped off and rolled on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000618">the body assumed a recumbent posture,</span>
   <span id="f000619">and he found himself clasping a white dimity bed-curtain,</span>
   <span id="f000620">with a sweeping-brush,</span>
   <span id="f000621">a kitchen cleaver,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and a hollow turnip lying at his feet!</span>
   <span id="f000623">Unable to understand this curious transformation,</span>
   <span id="f000624">he clutched the placard with feverish haste,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000626">in the grey morning light,</span>
   <span id="f000627">he read these fearful words:</span>
   <span id="f000628">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000629">YE OTIS GHOSTE<br /></span>
   <span id="f000630">Ye Onlie True and Originale Spook,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000631">Beware of Ye Imitationes.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000632">All others are counterfeite.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000633">The whole thing flashed across him.</span>
   <span id="f000634">He had been tricked,</span>
   <span id="f000635">foiled,</span>
   <span id="f000636">and out-witted!</span>
   <span id="f000637">The old Canterville look came into his eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000638">he ground his toothless gums together;</span>
   <span id="f000639">and,</span>
   <span id="f000640">raising his withered hands high above his head,</span>
   <span id="f000641">swore according to the picturesque phraseology of the antique school,</span>
   <span id="f000642">that,</span>
   <span id="f000643">when Chanticleer had sounded twice his merry horn,</span>
   <span id="f000644">deeds of blood would be wrought,</span>
   <span id="f000645">and murder walk abroad with silent feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">Hardly had he finished this awful oath when,</span>
   <span id="f000647">from the red-tiled roof of a distant homestead,</span>
   <span id="f000648">a cock crew.</span>
   <span id="f000649">He laughed a long,</span>
   <span id="f000650">low,</span>
   <span id="f000651">bitter laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and waited.</span>
   <span id="f000653">Hour after hour he waited,</span>
   <span id="f000654">but the cock,</span>
   <span id="f000655">for some strange reason,</span>
   <span id="f000656">did not crow again.</span>
   <span id="f000657">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f000658">at half-past seven,</span>
   <span id="f000659">the arrival of the housemaids made him give up his fearful vigil,</span>
   <span id="f000660">and he stalked back to his room,</span>
   <span id="f000661">thinking of his vain oath and baffled purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000662">There he consulted several books of ancient chivalry,</span>
   <span id="f000663">of which he was exceedingly fond,</span>
   <span id="f000664">and found that,</span>
   <span id="f000665">on every occasion on which this oath had been used,</span>
   <span id="f000666">Chanticleer had always crowed a second time.</span>
   <span id="f000667">“Perdition seize the naughty fowl,” he muttered,</span>
   <span id="f000668">“I have seen the day when,</span>
   <span id="f000669">with my stout spear,</span>
   <span id="f000670">I would have run him through the gorge,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and made him crow for me an ’twere in death!” He then retired to a comfortable lead coffin,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and stayed there till evening.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000673">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000674">The next day the ghost was very weak and tired.</span>
   <span id="f000675">The terrible excitement of the last four weeks was beginning to have its effect.</span>
   <span id="f000676">His nerves were completely shattered,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and he started at the slightest noise.</span>
   <span id="f000678">For five days he kept his room,</span>
   <span id="f000679">and at last made up his mind to give up the point of the blood-stain on the library floor.</span>
   <span id="f000680">If the Otis family did not want it,</span>
   <span id="f000681">they clearly did not deserve it.</span>
   <span id="f000682">They were evidently people on a low,</span>
   <span id="f000683">material plane of existence,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and quite incapable of appreciating the symbolic value of sensuous phenomena.</span>
   <span id="f000685">The question of phantasmic apparitions,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and the development of astral bodies,</span>
   <span id="f000687">was of course quite a different matter,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and really not under his control.</span>
   <span id="f000689">It was his solemn duty to appear in the corridor once a week,</span>
   <span id="f000690">and to gibber from the large oriel window on the first and third Wednesdays in every month,</span>
   <span id="f000691">and he did not see how he could honourably escape from his obligations.</span>
   <span id="f000692">It is quite true that his life had been very evil,</span>
   <span id="f000693">but,</span>
   <span id="f000694">upon the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000695">he was most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural.</span>
   <span id="f000696">For the next three Saturdays,</span>
   <span id="f000697">accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f000698">he traversed the corridor as usual between midnight and three o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000699">taking every possible precaution against being either heard or seen.</span>
   <span id="f000700">He removed his boots,</span>
   <span id="f000701">trod as lightly as possible on the old worm-eaten boards,</span>
   <span id="f000702">wore a large black velvet cloak,</span>
   <span id="f000703">and was careful to use the Rising Sun Lubricator for oiling his chains.</span>
   <span id="f000704">I am bound to acknowledge that it was with a good deal of difficulty that he brought himself to adopt this last mode of protection.</span>
   <span id="f000705">However,</span>
   <span id="f000706">one night,</span>
   <span id="f000707">while the family were at dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000708">he slipped into Mr.&#160;Otis’s bedroom and carried off the bottle.</span>
   <span id="f000709">He felt a little humiliated at first,</span>
   <span id="f000710">but afterwards was sensible enough to see that there was a great deal to be said for the invention,</span>
   <span id="f000711">and,</span>
   <span id="f000712">to a certain degree,</span>
   <span id="f000713">it served his purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000714">Still in spite of everything he was not left unmolested.</span>
   <span id="f000715">Strings were continually being stretched across the corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000716">over which he tripped in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and on one occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000718">while dressed for the part of “Black Isaac,</span>
   <span id="f000719">or the Huntsman of Hogley Woods,” he met with a severe fall,</span>
   <span id="f000720">through treading on a butter-slide,</span>
   <span id="f000721">which the twins had constructed from the entrance of the Tapestry Chamber to the top of the oak staircase.</span>
   <span id="f000722">This last insult so enraged him,</span>
   <span id="f000723">that he resolved to make one final effort to assert his dignity and social position,</span>
   <span id="f000724">and determined to visit the insolent young Etonians the next night in his celebrated character of “Reckless Rupert,</span>
   <span id="f000725">or the Headless Earl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000726">He had not appeared in this disguise for more than seventy years;</span>
   <span id="f000727">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000728">not since he had so frightened pretty Lady Barbara Modish by means of it,</span>
   <span id="f000729">that she suddenly broke off her engagement with the present Lord Canterville’s grandfather,</span>
   <span id="f000730">and ran away to Gretna Green with handsome Jack Castletown,</span>
   <span id="f000731">declaring that nothing in the world would induce her to marry into a family that allowed such a horrible phantom to walk up and down the terrace at twilight.</span>
   <span id="f000732">Poor Jack was afterwards shot in a duel by Lord Canterville on Wandsworth Common,</span>
   <span id="f000733">and Lady Barbara died of a broken heart at Tunbridge Wells before the year was out,</span>
   <span id="f000734">so,</span>
   <span id="f000735">in every way,</span>
   <span id="f000736">it had been a great success.</span>
   <span id="f000737">It was,</span>
   <span id="f000738">however an extremely difficult “make-up,” if I may use such a theatrical expression in connection with one of the greatest mysteries of the supernatural,</span>
   <span id="f000739">or,</span>
   <span id="f000740">to employ a more scientific term,</span>
   <span id="f000741">the higher-natural world,</span>
   <span id="f000742">and it took him fully three hours to make his preparations.</span>
   <span id="f000743">At last everything was ready,</span>
   <span id="f000744">and he was very pleased with his appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000745">The big leather riding-boots that went with the dress were just a little too large for him,</span>
   <span id="f000746">and he could only find one of the two horse-pistols,</span>
   <span id="f000747">but,</span>
   <span id="f000748">on the whole,</span>
   <span id="f000749">he was quite satisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000750">and at a quarter-past one he glided out of the wainscoting and crept down the corridor.</span>
   <span id="f000751">On reaching the room occupied by the twins,</span>
   <span id="f000752">which I should mention was called the Blue Bed Chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000753">on account of the colour of its hangings,</span>
   <span id="f000754">he found the door just ajar.</span>
   <span id="f000755">Wishing to make an effective entrance,</span>
   <span id="f000756">he flung it wide open,</span>
   <span id="f000757">when a heavy jug of water fell right down on him,</span>
   <span id="f000758">wetting him to the skin,</span>
   <span id="f000759">and just missing his left shoulder by a couple of inches.</span>
   <span id="f000760">At the same moment he heard stifled shrieks of laughter proceeding from the four-post bed.</span>
   <span id="f000761">The shock to his nervous system was so great that he fled back to his room as hard as he could go,</span>
   <span id="f000762">and the next day he was laid up with a severe cold.</span>
   <span id="f000763">The only thing that at all consoled him in the whole affair was the fact that he had not brought his head with him,</span>
   <span id="f000764">for,</span>
   <span id="f000765">had he done so,</span>
   <span id="f000766">the consequences might have been very serious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">He now gave up all hope of ever frightening this rude American family,</span>
   <span id="f000768">and contented himself,</span>
   <span id="f000769">as a rule,</span>
   <span id="f000770">with creeping about the passages in list slippers,</span>
   <span id="f000771">with a thick red muffler round his throat for fear of draughts,</span>
   <span id="f000772">and a small arquebuse,</span>
   <span id="f000773">in case he should be attacked by the twins.</span>
   <span id="f000774">The final blow he received occurred on the 19th of September.</span>
   <span id="f000775">He had gone down-stairs to the great entrance-hall,</span>
   <span id="f000776">feeling sure that there,</span>
   <span id="f000777">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000778">he would be quite unmolested,</span>
   <span id="f000779">and was amusing himself by making satirical remarks on the large Saroni photographs of the United States Minister and his wife which had now taken the place of the Canterville family pictures.</span>
   <span id="f000780">He was simply but neatly clad in a long shroud,</span>
   <span id="f000781">spotted with churchyard mould,</span>
   <span id="f000782">had tied up his jaw with a strip of yellow linen,</span>
   <span id="f000783">and carried a small lantern and a sexton’s spade.</span>
   <span id="f000784">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000785">he was dressed for the character of “Jonas the Graveless,</span>
   <span id="f000786">or the Corpse-Snatcher of Chertsey Barn,” one of his most remarkable impersonations,</span>
   <span id="f000787">and one which the Cantervilles had every reason to remember,</span>
   <span id="f000788">as it was the real origin of their quarrel with their neighbour,</span>
   <span id="f000789">Lord Rufford.</span>
   <span id="f000790">It was about a quarter-past two o’clock in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and,</span>
   <span id="f000792">as far as he could ascertain,</span>
   <span id="f000793">no one was stirring.</span>
   <span id="f000794">As he was strolling towards the library,</span>
   <span id="f000795">however,</span>
   <span id="f000796">to see if there were any traces left of the blood-stain,</span>
   <span id="f000797">suddenly there leaped out on him from a dark corner two figures,</span>
   <span id="f000798">who waved their arms wildly above their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000799">and shrieked out “BOO!” in his ear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000800">Seized with a panic,</span>
   <span id="f000801">which,</span>
   <span id="f000802">under the circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000803">was only natural,</span>
   <span id="f000804">he rushed for the staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000805">but found Washington Otis waiting for him there with the big garden-syringe,</span>
   <span id="f000806">and being thus hemmed in by his enemies on every side,</span>
   <span id="f000807">and driven almost to bay,</span>
   <span id="f000808">he vanished into the great iron stove,</span>
   <span id="f000809">which,</span>
   <span id="f000810">fortunately for him,</span>
   <span id="f000811">was not lit,</span>
   <span id="f000812">and had to make his way home through the flues and chimneys,</span>
   <span id="f000813">arriving at his own room in a terrible state of dirt,</span>
   <span id="f000814">disorder,</span>
   <span id="f000815">and despair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000816">After this he was not seen again on any nocturnal expedition.</span>
   <span id="f000817">The twins lay in wait for him on several occasions,</span>
   <span id="f000818">and strewed the passages with nutshells every night to the great annoyance of their parents and the servants,</span>
   <span id="f000819">but it was of no avail.</span>
   <span id="f000820">It was quite evident that his feelings were so wounded that he would not appear.</span>
   <span id="f000821">Mr.&#160;Otis consequently resumed his great work on the history of the Democratic Party,</span>
   <span id="f000822">on which he had been engaged for some years;</span>
   <span id="f000823">Mrs.&#160;Otis organized a wonderful clam-bake,</span>
   <span id="f000824">which amazed the whole county;</span>
   <span id="f000825">the boys took to lacrosse euchre,</span>
   <span id="f000826">poker,</span>
   <span id="f000827">and other American national games,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and Virginia rode about the lanes on her pony,</span>
   <span id="f000829">accompanied by the young Duke of Cheshire,</span>
   <span id="f000830">who had come to spend the last week of his holidays at Canterville Chase.</span>
   <span id="f000831">It was generally assumed that the ghost had gone away,</span>
   <span id="f000832">and,</span>
   <span id="f000833">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000834">Mr.&#160;Otis wrote a letter to that effect to Lord Canterville,</span>
   <span id="f000835">who,</span>
   <span id="f000836">in reply,</span>
   <span id="f000837">expressed his great pleasure at the news,</span>
   <span id="f000838">and sent his best congratulations to the Minister’s worthy wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">The Otises,</span>
   <span id="f000840">however,</span>
   <span id="f000841">were deceived,</span>
   <span id="f000842">for the ghost was still in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000843">and though now almost an invalid,</span>
   <span id="f000844">was by no means ready to let matters rest,</span>
   <span id="f000845">particularly as he heard that among the guests was the young Duke of Cheshire,</span>
   <span id="f000846">whose grand-uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000847">Lord Francis Stilton,</span>
   <span id="f000848">had once bet a hundred guineas with Colonel Carbury that he would play dice with the Canterville ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000849">and was found the next morning lying on the floor of the card-room in such a helpless paralytic state that,</span>
   <span id="f000850">though he lived on to a great age,</span>
   <span id="f000851">he was never able to say anything again but “Double Sixes.” The story was well known at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000852">though,</span>
   <span id="f000853">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000854">out of respect to the feelings of the two noble families,</span>
   <span id="f000855">every attempt was made to hush it up,</span>
   <span id="f000856">and a full account of all the circumstances connected with it will be found in the third volume of Lord Tattle’s <em>Recollections of the Prince Regent and his Friends</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000857">The ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000858">then,</span>
   <span id="f000859">was naturally very anxious to show that he had not lost his influence over the Stiltons,</span>
   <span id="f000860">with whom,</span>
   <span id="f000861">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000862">he was distantly connected,</span>
   <span id="f000863">his own first cousin having been married <em>en secondes noces</em> to the Sieur de Bulkeley,</span>
   <span id="f000864">from whom,</span>
   <span id="f000865">as every one knows,</span>
   <span id="f000866">the Dukes of Cheshire are lineally descended.</span>
   <span id="f000867">Accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f000868">he made arrangements for appearing to Virginia’s little lover in his celebrated impersonation of “The Vampire Monk,</span>
   <span id="f000869">or the Bloodless Benedictine,” a performance so horrible that when old Lady Startup saw it,</span>
   <span id="f000870">which she did on one fatal New Year’s Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000871">in the year 1764,</span>
   <span id="f000872">she went off into the most piercing shrieks,</span>
   <span id="f000873">which culminated in violent apoplexy,</span>
   <span id="f000874">and died in three days,</span>
   <span id="f000875">after disinheriting the Cantervilles,</span>
   <span id="f000876">who were her nearest relations,</span>
   <span id="f000877">and leaving all her money to her London apothecary.</span>
   <span id="f000878">At the last moment,</span>
   <span id="f000879">however,</span>
   <span id="f000880">his terror of the twins prevented his leaving his room,</span>
   <span id="f000881">and the little Duke slept in peace under the great feathered canopy in the Royal Bedchamber,</span>
   <span id="f000882">and dreamed of Virginia.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000883">V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000884">A few days after this,</span>
   <span id="f000885">Virginia and her curly-haired cavalier went out riding on Brockley meadows,</span>
   <span id="f000886">where she tore her habit so badly in getting through a hedge that,</span>
   <span id="f000887">on their return home,</span>
   <span id="f000888">she made up her mind to go up by the back staircase so as not to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000889">As she was running past the Tapestry Chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000890">the door of which happened to be open,</span>
   <span id="f000891">she fancied she saw some one inside,</span>
   <span id="f000892">and thinking it was her mother’s maid,</span>
   <span id="f000893">who sometimes used to bring her work there,</span>
   <span id="f000894">looked in to ask her to mend her habit.</span>
   <span id="f000895">To her immense surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000896">however,</span>
   <span id="f000897">it was the Canterville Ghost himself!</span>
   <span id="f000898">He was sitting by the window,</span>
   <span id="f000899">watching the ruined gold of the yellowing trees fly through the air,</span>
   <span id="f000900">and the red leaves dancing madly down the long avenue.</span>
   <span id="f000901">His head was leaning on his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000902">and his whole attitude was one of extreme depression.</span>
   <span id="f000903">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000904">so forlorn,</span>
   <span id="f000905">and so much out of repair did he look,</span>
   <span id="f000906">that little Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f000907">whose first idea had been to run away and lock herself in her room,</span>
   <span id="f000908">was filled with pity,</span>
   <span id="f000909">and determined to try and comfort him.</span>
   <span id="f000910">So light was her footfall,</span>
   <span id="f000911">and so deep his melancholy,</span>
   <span id="f000912">that he was not aware of her presence till she spoke to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000913">“I am so sorry for you,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000914">“but my brothers are going back to Eton to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000915">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000916">if you behave yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000917">no one will annoy you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000918">“It is absurd asking me to behave myself,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000919">looking round in astonishment at the pretty little girl who had ventured to address him,</span>
   <span id="f000920">“quite absurd.</span>
   <span id="f000921">I must rattle my chains,</span>
   <span id="f000922">and groan through keyholes,</span>
   <span id="f000923">and walk about at night,</span>
   <span id="f000924">if that is what you mean.</span>
   <span id="f000925">It is my only reason for existing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000926">“It is no reason at all for existing,</span>
   <span id="f000927">and you know you have been very wicked.</span>
   <span id="f000928">Mrs.&#160;Umney told us,</span>
   <span id="f000929">the first day we arrived here,</span>
   <span id="f000930">that you had killed your wife.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000931">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000932">I quite admit it,” said the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000933">petulantly,</span>
   <span id="f000934">“but it was a purely family matter,</span>
   <span id="f000935">and concerned no one else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000936">“It is very wrong to kill any one,” said Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f000937">who at times had a sweet puritan gravity,</span>
   <span id="f000938">caught from some old New England ancestor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000940">I hate the cheap severity of abstract ethics!</span>
   <span id="f000941">My wife was very plain,</span>
   <span id="f000942">never had my ruffs properly starched,</span>
   <span id="f000943">and knew nothing about cookery.</span>
   <span id="f000944">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000945">there was a buck I had shot in Hogley Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000946">a magnificent pricket,</span>
   <span id="f000947">and do you know how she had it sent to table?</span>
   <span id="f000948">However,</span>
   <span id="f000949">it is no matter now,</span>
   <span id="f000950">for it is all over,</span>
   <span id="f000951">and I don’t think it was very nice of her brothers to starve me to death,</span>
   <span id="f000952">though I did kill her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">“Starve you to death?</span>
   <span id="f000954">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000955">Mr.&#160;Ghost – I mean Sir Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000956">are you hungry?</span>
   <span id="f000957">I have a sandwich in my case.</span>
   <span id="f000958">Would you like it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000960">thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000961">I never eat anything now;</span>
   <span id="f000962">but it is very kind of you,</span>
   <span id="f000963">all the same,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and you are much nicer than the rest of your horrid,</span>
   <span id="f000965">rude,</span>
   <span id="f000966">vulgar,</span>
   <span id="f000967">dishonest family.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000968">“Stop!” cried Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f000969">stamping her foot,</span>
   <span id="f000970">“it is you who are rude,</span>
   <span id="f000971">and horrid,</span>
   <span id="f000972">and vulgar,</span>
   <span id="f000973">and as for dishonesty,</span>
   <span id="f000974">you know you stole the paints out of my box to try and furbish up that ridiculous blood-stain in the library.</span>
   <span id="f000975">First you took all my reds,</span>
   <span id="f000976">including the vermilion,</span>
   <span id="f000977">and I couldn’t do any more sunsets,</span>
   <span id="f000978">then you took the emerald-green and the chrome-yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000979">and finally I had nothing left but indigo and Chinese white,</span>
   <span id="f000980">and could only do moonlight scenes,</span>
   <span id="f000981">which are always depressing to look at,</span>
   <span id="f000982">and not at all easy to paint.</span>
   <span id="f000983">I never told on you,</span>
   <span id="f000984">though I was very much annoyed,</span>
   <span id="f000985">and it was most ridiculous,</span>
   <span id="f000986">the whole thing;</span>
   <span id="f000987">for who ever heard of emerald-green blood?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000988">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000989">really,” said the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000990">rather meekly,</span>
   <span id="f000991">“what was I to do?</span>
   <span id="f000992">It is a very difficult thing to get real blood nowadays,</span>
   <span id="f000993">and,</span>
   <span id="f000994">as your brother began it all with his Paragon Detergent,</span>
   <span id="f000995">I certainly saw no reason why I should not have your paints.</span>
   <span id="f000996">As for colour,</span>
   <span id="f000997">that is always a matter of taste:</span>
   <span id="f000998">the Cantervilles have blue blood,</span>
   <span id="f000999">for instance,</span>
   <span id="f001000">the very bluest in England;</span>
   <span id="f001001">but I know you Americans don’t care for things of this kind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001002">“You know nothing about it,</span>
   <span id="f001003">and the best thing you can do is to emigrate and improve your mind.</span>
   <span id="f001004">My father will be only too happy to give you a free passage,</span>
   <span id="f001005">and though there is a heavy duty on spirits of every kind,</span>
   <span id="f001006">there will be no difficulty about the Custom House,</span>
   <span id="f001007">as the officers are all Democrats.</span>
   <span id="f001008">Once in New York,</span>
   <span id="f001009">you are sure to be a great success.</span>
   <span id="f001010">I know lots of people there who would give a hundred thousand dollars to have a grandfather,</span>
   <span id="f001011">and much more than that to have a family ghost.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001012">“I don’t think I should like America.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">“I suppose because we have no ruins and no curiosities,” said Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f001014">satirically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001015">“No ruins!</span>
   <span id="f001016">no curiosities!” answered the Ghost;</span>
   <span id="f001017">“you have your navy and your manners.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001018">“Good evening;</span>
   <span id="f001019">I will go and ask papa to get the twins an extra week’s holiday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001020">“Please don’t go,</span>
   <span id="f001021">Miss Virginia,” he cried;</span>
   <span id="f001022">“I am so lonely and so unhappy,</span>
   <span id="f001023">and I really don’t know what to do.</span>
   <span id="f001024">I want to go to sleep and I cannot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001025">“That’s quite absurd!</span>
   <span id="f001026">You have merely to go to bed and blow out the candle.</span>
   <span id="f001027">It is very difficult sometimes to keep awake,</span>
   <span id="f001028">especially at church,</span>
   <span id="f001029">but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping.</span>
   <span id="f001030">Why,</span>
   <span id="f001031">even babies know how to do that,</span>
   <span id="f001032">and they are not very clever.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001033">“I have not slept for three hundred years,” he said sadly,</span>
   <span id="f001034">and Virginia’s beautiful blue eyes opened in wonder;</span>
   <span id="f001035">“for three hundred years I have not slept,</span>
   <span id="f001036">and I am so tired.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001037">Virginia grew quite grave,</span>
   <span id="f001038">and her little lips trembled like rose-leaves.</span>
   <span id="f001039">She came towards him,</span>
   <span id="f001040">and kneeling down at his side,</span>
   <span id="f001041">looked up into his old withered face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001042">“Poor,</span>
   <span id="f001043">poor Ghost,” she murmured;</span>
   <span id="f001044">“have you no place where you can sleep?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001045">“Far away beyond the pine-woods,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f001046">in a low,</span>
   <span id="f001047">dreamy voice,</span>
   <span id="f001048">“there is a little garden.</span>
   <span id="f001049">There the grass grows long and deep,</span>
   <span id="f001050">there are the great white stars of the hemlock flower,</span>
   <span id="f001051">there the nightingale sings all night long.</span>
   <span id="f001052">All night long he sings,</span>
   <span id="f001053">and the cold crystal moon looks down,</span>
   <span id="f001054">and the yew-tree spreads out its giant arms over the sleepers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001055">Virginia’s eyes grew dim with tears,</span>
   <span id="f001056">and she hid her face in her hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001057">“You mean the Garden of Death,” she whispered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001058">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001059">death.</span>
   <span id="f001060">Death must be so beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f001061">To lie in the soft brown earth,</span>
   <span id="f001062">with the grasses waving above one’s head,</span>
   <span id="f001063">and listen to silence.</span>
   <span id="f001064">To have no yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f001065">and no to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f001066">To forget time,</span>
   <span id="f001067">to forget life,</span>
   <span id="f001068">to be at peace.</span>
   <span id="f001069">You can help me.</span>
   <span id="f001070">You can open for me the portals of death’s house,</span>
   <span id="f001071">for love is always with you,</span>
   <span id="f001072">and love is stronger than death is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001073">Virginia trembled,</span>
   <span id="f001074">a cold shudder ran through her,</span>
   <span id="f001075">and for a few moments there was silence.</span>
   <span id="f001076">She felt as if she was in a terrible dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001077">Then the ghost spoke again,</span>
   <span id="f001078">and his voice sounded like the sighing of the wind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001079">“Have you ever read the old prophecy on the library window?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001080">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001081">often,” cried the little girl,</span>
   <span id="f001082">looking up;</span>
   <span id="f001083">"I know it quite well.</span>
   <span id="f001084">It is painted in curious black letters,</span>
   <span id="f001085">and is difficult to read.</span>
   <span id="f001086">There are only six lines:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001087">’When a golden girl can win<br /></span>
   <span id="f001088">Prayer from out the lips of sin,<br /></span>
   <span id="f001089">When the barren almond bears,<br /></span>
   <span id="f001090">And a little child gives away its tears,<br /></span>
   <span id="f001091">Then shall all the house be still<br /></span>
   <span id="f001092">And peace come to Canterville.’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001093">“But I don’t know what they mean.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001094">“They mean,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f001095">sadly,</span>
   <span id="f001096">“that you must weep with me for my sins,</span>
   <span id="f001097">because I have no tears,</span>
   <span id="f001098">and pray with me for my soul,</span>
   <span id="f001099">because I have no faith,</span>
   <span id="f001100">and then,</span>
   <span id="f001101">if you have always been sweet,</span>
   <span id="f001102">and good,</span>
   <span id="f001103">and gentle,</span>
   <span id="f001104">the angel of death will have mercy on me.</span>
   <span id="f001105">You will see fearful shapes in darkness,</span>
   <span id="f001106">and wicked voices will whisper in your ear,</span>
   <span id="f001107">but they will not harm you,</span>
   <span id="f001108">for against the purity of a little child the powers of Hell cannot prevail.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001109">Virginia made no answer,</span>
   <span id="f001110">and the ghost wrung his hands in wild despair as he looked down at her bowed golden head.</span>
   <span id="f001111">Suddenly she stood up,</span>
   <span id="f001112">very pale,</span>
   <span id="f001113">and with a strange light in her eyes.</span>
   <span id="f001114">“I am not afraid,” she said firmly,</span>
   <span id="f001115">“and I will ask the angel to have mercy on you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001116">He rose from his seat with a faint cry of joy,</span>
   <span id="f001117">and taking her hand bent over it with old-fashioned grace and kissed it.</span>
   <span id="f001118">His fingers were as cold as ice,</span>
   <span id="f001119">and his lips burned like fire,</span>
   <span id="f001120">but Virginia did not falter,</span>
   <span id="f001121">as he led her across the dusky room.</span>
   <span id="f001122">On the faded green tapestry were broidered little huntsmen.</span>
   <span id="f001123">They blew their tasselled horns and with their tiny hands waved to her to go back.</span>
   <span id="f001124">“Go back!</span>
   <span id="f001125">little Virginia,” they cried,</span>
   <span id="f001126">“go back!” but the ghost clutched her hand more tightly,</span>
   <span id="f001127">and she shut her eyes against them.</span>
   <span id="f001128">Horrible animals with lizard tails and goggle eyes blinked at her from the carven chimneypiece,</span>
   <span id="f001129">and murmured,</span>
   <span id="f001130">“Beware!</span>
   <span id="f001131">little Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f001132">beware!</span>
   <span id="f001133">we may never see you again,” but the Ghost glided on more swiftly,</span>
   <span id="f001134">and Virginia did not listen.</span>
   <span id="f001135">When they reached the end of the room he stopped,</span>
   <span id="f001136">and muttered some words she could not understand.</span>
   <span id="f001137">She opened her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f001138">and saw the wall slowly fading away like a mist,</span>
   <span id="f001139">and a great black cavern in front of her.</span>
   <span id="f001140">A bitter cold wind swept round them,</span>
   <span id="f001141">and she felt something pulling at her dress.</span>
   <span id="f001142">“Quick,</span>
   <span id="f001143">quick,” cried the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f001144">“or it will be too late,” and in a moment the wainscoting had closed behind them,</span>
   <span id="f001145">and the Tapestry Chamber was empty.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f001146">VI</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f001147">About ten minutes later,</span>
   <span id="f001148">the bell rang for tea,</span>
   <span id="f001149">and,</span>
   <span id="f001150">as Virginia did not come down,</span>
   <span id="f001151">Mrs.&#160;Otis sent up one of the footmen to tell her.</span>
   <span id="f001152">After a little time he returned and said that he could not find Miss Virginia anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f001153">As she was in the habit of going out to the garden every evening to get flowers for the dinner-table,</span>
   <span id="f001154">Mrs.&#160;Otis was not at all alarmed at first,</span>
   <span id="f001155">but when six o’clock struck,</span>
   <span id="f001156">and Virginia did not appear,</span>
   <span id="f001157">she became really agitated,</span>
   <span id="f001158">and sent the boys out to look for her,</span>
   <span id="f001159">while she herself and Mr.&#160;Otis searched every room in the house.</span>
   <span id="f001160">At half-past six the boys came back and said that they could find no trace of their sister anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f001161">They were all now in the greatest state of excitement,</span>
   <span id="f001162">and did not know what to do,</span>
   <span id="f001163">when Mr.&#160;Otis suddenly remembered that,</span>
   <span id="f001164">some few days before,</span>
   <span id="f001165">he had given a band of gipsies permission to camp in the park.</span>
   <span id="f001166">He accordingly at once set off for Blackfell Hollow,</span>
   <span id="f001167">where he knew they were,</span>
   <span id="f001168">accompanied by his eldest son and two of the farm-servants.</span>
   <span id="f001169">The little Duke of Cheshire,</span>
   <span id="f001170">who was perfectly frantic with anxiety,</span>
   <span id="f001171">begged hard to be allowed to go too,</span>
   <span id="f001172">but Mr.&#160;Otis would not allow him,</span>
   <span id="f001173">as he was afraid there might be a scuffle.</span>
   <span id="f001174">On arriving at the spot,</span>
   <span id="f001175">however,</span>
   <span id="f001176">he found that the gipsies had gone,</span>
   <span id="f001177">and it was evident that their departure had been rather sudden,</span>
   <span id="f001178">as the fire was still burning,</span>
   <span id="f001179">and some plates were lying on the grass.</span>
   <span id="f001180">Having sent off Washington and the two men to scour the district,</span>
   <span id="f001181">he ran home,</span>
   <span id="f001182">and despatched telegrams to all the police inspectors in the county,</span>
   <span id="f001183">telling them to look out for a little girl who had been kidnapped by tramps or gipsies.</span>
   <span id="f001184">He then ordered his horse to be brought round,</span>
   <span id="f001185">and,</span>
   <span id="f001186">after insisting on his wife and the three boys sitting down to dinner,</span>
   <span id="f001187">rode off down the Ascot road with a groom.</span>
   <span id="f001188">He had hardly,</span>
   <span id="f001189">however,</span>
   <span id="f001190">gone a couple of miles,</span>
   <span id="f001191">when he heard somebody galloping after him,</span>
   <span id="f001192">and,</span>
   <span id="f001193">looking round,</span>
   <span id="f001194">saw the little Duke coming up on his pony,</span>
   <span id="f001195">with his face very flushed,</span>
   <span id="f001196">and no hat.</span>
   <span id="f001197">“I’m awfully sorry,</span>
   <span id="f001198">Mr.&#160;Otis,” gasped out the boy,</span>
   <span id="f001199">“but I can’t eat any dinner as long as Virginia is lost.</span>
   <span id="f001200">Please don’t be angry with me;</span>
   <span id="f001201">if you had let us be engaged last year,</span>
   <span id="f001202">there would never have been all this trouble.</span>
   <span id="f001203">You won’t send me back,</span>
   <span id="f001204">will you?</span>
   <span id="f001205">I can’t go!</span>
   <span id="f001206">I won’t go!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001207">The Minister could not help smiling at the handsome young scapegrace,</span>
   <span id="f001208">and was a good deal touched at his devotion to Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f001209">so leaning down from his horse,</span>
   <span id="f001210">he patted him kindly on the shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f001211">and said,</span>
   <span id="f001212">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001213">Cecil,</span>
   <span id="f001214">if you won’t go back,</span>
   <span id="f001215">I suppose you must come with me,</span>
   <span id="f001216">but I must get you a hat at Ascot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001217">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001218">bother my hat!</span>
   <span id="f001219">I want Virginia!” cried the little Duke,</span>
   <span id="f001220">laughing,</span>
   <span id="f001221">and they galloped on to the railway station.</span>
   <span id="f001222">There Mr.&#160;Otis inquired of the station-master if any one answering to the description of Virginia had been seen on the platform,</span>
   <span id="f001223">but could get no news of her.</span>
   <span id="f001224">The station-master,</span>
   <span id="f001225">however,</span>
   <span id="f001226">wired up and down the line,</span>
   <span id="f001227">and assured him that a strict watch would be kept for her,</span>
   <span id="f001228">and,</span>
   <span id="f001229">after having bought a hat for the little Duke from a linen-draper,</span>
   <span id="f001230">who was just putting up his shutters,</span>
   <span id="f001231">Mr.&#160;Otis rode off to Bexley,</span>
   <span id="f001232">a village about four miles away,</span>
   <span id="f001233">which he was told was a well-known haunt of the gipsies,</span>
   <span id="f001234">as there was a large common next to it.</span>
   <span id="f001235">Here they roused up the rural policeman,</span>
   <span id="f001236">but could get no information from him,</span>
   <span id="f001237">and,</span>
   <span id="f001238">after riding all over the common,</span>
   <span id="f001239">they turned their horses’ heads homewards,</span>
   <span id="f001240">and reached the Chase about eleven o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f001241">dead-tired and almost heart-broken.</span>
   <span id="f001242">They found Washington and the twins waiting for them at the gate-house with lanterns,</span>
   <span id="f001243">as the avenue was very dark.</span>
   <span id="f001244">Not the slightest trace of Virginia had been discovered.</span>
   <span id="f001245">The gipsies had been caught on Brockley meadows,</span>
   <span id="f001246">but she was not with them,</span>
   <span id="f001247">and they had explained their sudden departure by saying that they had mistaken the date of Chorton Fair,</span>
   <span id="f001248">and had gone off in a hurry for fear they should be late.</span>
   <span id="f001249">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f001250">they had been quite distressed at hearing of Virginia’s disappearance,</span>
   <span id="f001251">as they were very grateful to Mr.&#160;Otis for having allowed them to camp in his park,</span>
   <span id="f001252">and four of their number had stayed behind to help in the search.</span>
   <span id="f001253">The carp-pond had been dragged,</span>
   <span id="f001254">and the whole Chase thoroughly gone over,</span>
   <span id="f001255">but without any result.</span>
   <span id="f001256">It was evident that,</span>
   <span id="f001257">for that night at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f001258">Virginia was lost to them;</span>
   <span id="f001259">and it was in a state of the deepest depression that Mr.&#160;Otis and the boys walked up to the house,</span>
   <span id="f001260">the groom following behind with the two horses and the pony.</span>
   <span id="f001261">In the hall they found a group of frightened servants,</span>
   <span id="f001262">and lying on a sofa in the library was poor Mrs.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f001263">almost out of her mind with terror and anxiety,</span>
   <span id="f001264">and having her forehead bathed with eau de cologne by the old housekeeper.</span>
   <span id="f001265">Mr.&#160;Otis at once insisted on her having something to eat,</span>
   <span id="f001266">and ordered up supper for the whole party.</span>
   <span id="f001267">It was a melancholy meal,</span>
   <span id="f001268">as hardly any one spoke,</span>
   <span id="f001269">and even the twins were awestruck and subdued,</span>
   <span id="f001270">as they were very fond of their sister.</span>
   <span id="f001271">When they had finished,</span>
   <span id="f001272">Mr.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f001273">in spite of the entreaties of the little Duke,</span>
   <span id="f001274">ordered them all to bed,</span>
   <span id="f001275">saying that nothing more could be done that night,</span>
   <span id="f001276">and that he would telegraph in the morning to Scotland Yard for some detectives to be sent down immediately.</span>
   <span id="f001277">Just as they were passing out of the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f001278">midnight began to boom from the clock tower,</span>
   <span id="f001279">and when the last stroke sounded they heard a crash and a sudden shrill cry;</span>
   <span id="f001280">a dreadful peal of thunder shook the house,</span>
   <span id="f001281">a strain of unearthly music floated through the air,</span>
   <span id="f001282">a panel at the top of the staircase flew back with a loud noise,</span>
   <span id="f001283">and out on the landing,</span>
   <span id="f001284">looking very pale and white,</span>
   <span id="f001285">with a little casket in her hand,</span>
   <span id="f001286">stepped Virginia.</span>
   <span id="f001287">In a moment they had all rushed up to her.</span>
   <span id="f001288">Mrs.&#160;Otis clasped her passionately in her arms,</span>
   <span id="f001289">the Duke smothered her with violent kisses,</span>
   <span id="f001290">and the twins executed a wild war-dance round the group.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001291">“Good heavens!</span>
   <span id="f001292">child,</span>
   <span id="f001293">where have you been?” said Mr.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f001294">rather angrily,</span>
   <span id="f001295">thinking that she had been playing some foolish trick on them.</span>
   <span id="f001296">“Cecil and I have been riding all over the country looking for you,</span>
   <span id="f001297">and your mother has been frightened to death.</span>
   <span id="f001298">You must never play these practical jokes any more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001299">“Except on the Ghost!</span>
   <span id="f001300">except on the Ghost!” shrieked the twins,</span>
   <span id="f001301">as they capered about.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001302">“My own darling,</span>
   <span id="f001303">thank God you are found;</span>
   <span id="f001304">you must never leave my side again,” murmured Mrs.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f001305">as she kissed the trembling child,</span>
   <span id="f001306">and smoothed the tangled gold of her hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001307">“Papa,” said Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f001308">quietly,</span>
   <span id="f001309">“I have been with the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f001310">He is dead,</span>
   <span id="f001311">and you must come and see him.</span>
   <span id="f001312">He had been very wicked,</span>
   <span id="f001313">but he was really sorry for all that he had done,</span>
   <span id="f001314">and he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001315">The whole family gazed at her in mute amazement,</span>
   <span id="f001316">but she was quite grave and serious;</span>
   <span id="f001317">and,</span>
   <span id="f001318">turning round,</span>
   <span id="f001319">she led them through the opening in the wainscoting down a narrow secret corridor,</span>
   <span id="f001320">Washington following with a lighted candle,</span>
   <span id="f001321">which he had caught up from the table.</span>
   <span id="f001322">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f001323">they came to a great oak door,</span>
   <span id="f001324">studded with rusty nails.</span>
   <span id="f001325">When Virginia touched it,</span>
   <span id="f001326">it swung back on its heavy hinges,</span>
   <span id="f001327">and they found themselves in a little low room,</span>
   <span id="f001328">with a vaulted ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f001329">and one tiny grated window.</span>
   <span id="f001330">Imbedded in the wall was a huge iron ring,</span>
   <span id="f001331">and chained to it was a gaunt skeleton,</span>
   <span id="f001332">that was stretched out at full length on the stone floor,</span>
   <span id="f001333">and seemed to be trying to grasp with its long fleshless fingers an old-fashioned trencher and ewer,</span>
   <span id="f001334">that were placed just out of its reach.</span>
   <span id="f001335">The jug had evidently been once filled with water,</span>
   <span id="f001336">as it was covered inside with green mould.</span>
   <span id="f001337">There was nothing on the trencher but a pile of dust.</span>
   <span id="f001338">Virginia knelt down beside the skeleton,</span>
   <span id="f001339">and,</span>
   <span id="f001340">folding her little hands together,</span>
   <span id="f001341">began to pray silently,</span>
   <span id="f001342">while the rest of the party looked on in wonder at the terrible tragedy whose secret was now disclosed to them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001343">“Hallo!” suddenly exclaimed one of the twins,</span>
   <span id="f001344">who had been looking out of the window to try and discover in what wing of the house the room was situated.</span>
   <span id="f001345">“Hallo!</span>
   <span id="f001346">the old withered almond-tree has blossomed.</span>
   <span id="f001347">I can see the flowers quite plainly in the moonlight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001348">“God has forgiven him,” said Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f001349">gravely,</span>
   <span id="f001350">as she rose to her feet,</span>
   <span id="f001351">and a beautiful light seemed to illumine her face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001352">“What an angel you are!” cried the young Duke,</span>
   <span id="f001353">and he put his arm round her neck,</span>
   <span id="f001354">and kissed her.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f001355">VII</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f001356">Four days after these curious incidents,</span>
   <span id="f001357">a funeral started from Canterville Chase at about eleven o’clock at night.</span>
   <span id="f001358">The hearse was drawn by eight black horses,</span>
   <span id="f001359">each of which carried on its head a great tuft of nodding ostrich-plumes,</span>
   <span id="f001360">and the leaden coffin was covered by a rich purple pall,</span>
   <span id="f001361">on which was embroidered in gold the Canterville coat-of-arms.</span>
   <span id="f001362">By the side of the hearse and the coaches walked the servants with lighted torches,</span>
   <span id="f001363">and the whole procession was wonderfully impressive.</span>
   <span id="f001364">Lord Canterville was the chief mourner,</span>
   <span id="f001365">having come up specially from Wales to attend the funeral,</span>
   <span id="f001366">and sat in the first carriage along with little Virginia.</span>
   <span id="f001367">Then came the United States Minister and his wife,</span>
   <span id="f001368">then Washington and the three boys,</span>
   <span id="f001369">and in the last carriage was Mrs.&#160;Umney.</span>
   <span id="f001370">It was generally felt that,</span>
   <span id="f001371">as she had been frightened by the ghost for more than fifty years of her life,</span>
   <span id="f001372">she had a right to see the last of him.</span>
   <span id="f001373">A deep grave had been dug in the corner of the churchyard,</span>
   <span id="f001374">just under the old yew-tree,</span>
   <span id="f001375">and the service was read in the most impressive manner by the Rev.</span>
   <span id="f001376">Augustus Dampier.</span>
   <span id="f001377">When the ceremony was over,</span>
   <span id="f001378">the servants,</span>
   <span id="f001379">according to an old custom observed in the Canterville family,</span>
   <span id="f001380">extinguished their torches,</span>
   <span id="f001381">and,</span>
   <span id="f001382">as the coffin was being lowered into the grave,</span>
   <span id="f001383">Virginia stepped forward,</span>
   <span id="f001384">and laid on it a large cross made of white and pink almond-blossoms.</span>
   <span id="f001385">As she did so,</span>
   <span id="f001386">the moon came out from behind a cloud,</span>
   <span id="f001387">and flooded with its silent silver the little churchyard,</span>
   <span id="f001388">and from a distant copse a nightingale began to sing.</span>
   <span id="f001389">She thought of the ghost’s description of the Garden of Death,</span>
   <span id="f001390">her eyes became dim with tears,</span>
   <span id="f001391">and she hardly spoke a word during the drive home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001392">The next morning,</span>
   <span id="f001393">before Lord Canterville went up to town,</span>
   <span id="f001394">Mr.&#160;Otis had an interview with him on the subject of the jewels the ghost had given to Virginia.</span>
   <span id="f001395">They were perfectly magnificent,</span>
   <span id="f001396">especially a certain ruby necklace with old Venetian setting,</span>
   <span id="f001397">which was really a superb specimen of sixteenth-century work,</span>
   <span id="f001398">and their value was so great that Mr.&#160;Otis felt considerable scruples about allowing his daughter to accept them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001399">“My lord,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f001400">“I know that in this country mortmain is held to apply to trinkets as well as to land,</span>
   <span id="f001401">and it is quite clear to me that these jewels are,</span>
   <span id="f001402">or should be,</span>
   <span id="f001403">heirlooms in your family.</span>
   <span id="f001404">I must beg you,</span>
   <span id="f001405">accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f001406">to take them to London with you,</span>
   <span id="f001407">and to regard them simply as a portion of your property which has been restored to you under certain strange conditions.</span>
   <span id="f001408">As for my daughter,</span>
   <span id="f001409">she is merely a child,</span>
   <span id="f001410">and has as yet,</span>
   <span id="f001411">I am glad to say,</span>
   <span id="f001412">but little interest in such appurtenances of idle luxury.</span>
   <span id="f001413">I am also informed by Mrs.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f001414">who,</span>
   <span id="f001415">I may say,</span>
   <span id="f001416">is no mean authority upon Art,</span>
   <span id="f001417">– having had the privilege of spending several winters in Boston when she was a girl,</span>
   <span id="f001418">– that these gems are of great monetary worth,</span>
   <span id="f001419">and if offered for sale would fetch a tall price.</span>
   <span id="f001420">Under these circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f001421">Lord Canterville,</span>
   <span id="f001422">I feel sure that you will recognize how impossible it would be for me to allow them to remain in the possession of any member of my family;</span>
   <span id="f001423">and,</span>
   <span id="f001424">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f001425">all such vain gauds and toys,</span>
   <span id="f001426">however suitable or necessary to the dignity of the British aristocracy,</span>
   <span id="f001427">would be completely out of place among those who have been brought up on the severe,</span>
   <span id="f001428">and I believe immortal,</span>
   <span id="f001429">principles of Republican simplicity.</span>
   <span id="f001430">Perhaps I should mention that Virginia is very anxious that you should allow her to retain the box,</span>
   <span id="f001431">as a memento of your unfortunate but misguided ancestor.</span>
   <span id="f001432">As it is extremely old,</span>
   <span id="f001433">and consequently a good deal out of repair,</span>
   <span id="f001434">you may perhaps think fit to comply with her request.</span>
   <span id="f001435">For my own part,</span>
   <span id="f001436">I confess I am a good deal surprised to find a child of mine expressing sympathy with mediævalism in any form,</span>
   <span id="f001437">and can only account for it by the fact that Virginia was born in one of your London suburbs shortly after Mrs.&#160;Otis had returned from a trip to Athens.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001438">Lord Canterville listened very gravely to the worthy Minister’s speech,</span>
   <span id="f001439">pulling his grey moustache now and then to hide an involuntary smile,</span>
   <span id="f001440">and when Mr.&#160;Otis had ended,</span>
   <span id="f001441">he shook him cordially by the hand,</span>
   <span id="f001442">and said:</span>
   <span id="f001443">“My dear sir,</span>
   <span id="f001444">your charming little daughter rendered my unlucky ancestor,</span>
   <span id="f001445">Sir Simon,</span>
   <span id="f001446">a very important service,</span>
   <span id="f001447">and I and my family are much indebted to her for her marvellous courage and pluck.</span>
   <span id="f001448">The jewels are clearly hers,</span>
   <span id="f001449">and,</span>
   <span id="f001450">egad,</span>
   <span id="f001451">I believe that if I were heartless enough to take them from her,</span>
   <span id="f001452">the wicked old fellow would be out of his grave in a fortnight,</span>
   <span id="f001453">leading me the devil of a life.</span>
   <span id="f001454">As for their being heirlooms,</span>
   <span id="f001455">nothing is an heirloom that is not so mentioned in a will or legal document,</span>
   <span id="f001456">and the existence of these jewels has been quite unknown.</span>
   <span id="f001457">I assure you I have no more claim on them than your butler,</span>
   <span id="f001458">and when Miss Virginia grows up,</span>
   <span id="f001459">I dare say she will be pleased to have pretty things to wear.</span>
   <span id="f001460">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f001461">you forget,</span>
   <span id="f001462">Mr.&#160;Otis,</span>
   <span id="f001463">that you took the furniture and the ghost at a valuation,</span>
   <span id="f001464">and anything that belonged to the ghost passed at once into your possession,</span>
   <span id="f001465">as,</span>
   <span id="f001466">whatever activity Sir Simon may have shown in the corridor at night,</span>
   <span id="f001467">in point of law he was really dead,</span>
   <span id="f001468">and you acquired his property by purchase.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001469">Mr.&#160;Otis was a good deal distressed at Lord Canterville’s refusal,</span>
   <span id="f001470">and begged him to reconsider his decision,</span>
   <span id="f001471">but the good-natured peer was quite firm,</span>
   <span id="f001472">and finally induced the Minister to allow his daughter to retain the present the ghost had given her,</span>
   <span id="f001473">and when,</span>
   <span id="f001474">in the spring of 1890,</span>
   <span id="f001475">the young Duchess of Cheshire was presented at the Queen’s first drawing-room on the occasion of her marriage,</span>
   <span id="f001476">her jewels were the universal theme of admiration.</span>
   <span id="f001477">For Virginia received the coronet,</span>
   <span id="f001478">which is the reward of all good little American girls,</span>
   <span id="f001479">and was married to her boy-lover as soon as he came of age.</span>
   <span id="f001480">They were both so charming,</span>
   <span id="f001481">and they loved each other so much,</span>
   <span id="f001482">that every one was delighted at the match,</span>
   <span id="f001483">except the old Marchioness of Dumbleton,</span>
   <span id="f001484">who had tried to catch the Duke for one of her seven unmarried daughters,</span>
   <span id="f001485">and had given no less than three expensive dinner-parties for that purpose,</span>
   <span id="f001486">and,</span>
   <span id="f001487">strange to say,</span>
   <span id="f001488">Mr.&#160;Otis himself.</span>
   <span id="f001489">Mr.&#160;Otis was extremely fond of the young Duke personally,</span>
   <span id="f001490">but,</span>
   <span id="f001491">theoretically,</span>
   <span id="f001492">he objected to titles,</span>
   <span id="f001493">and,</span>
   <span id="f001494">to use his own words,</span>
   <span id="f001495">“was not without apprehension lest,</span>
   <span id="f001496">amid the enervating influences of a pleasure-loving aristocracy,</span>
   <span id="f001497">the true principles of Republican simplicity should be forgotten.” His objections,</span>
   <span id="f001498">however,</span>
   <span id="f001499">were completely overruled,</span>
   <span id="f001500">and I believe that when he walked up the aisle of St.&#160;George’s,</span>
   <span id="f001501">Hanover Square,</span>
   <span id="f001502">with his daughter leaning on his arm,</span>
   <span id="f001503">there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of England.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001504">The Duke and Duchess,</span>
   <span id="f001505">after the honeymoon was over,</span>
   <span id="f001506">went down to Canterville Chase,</span>
   <span id="f001507">and on the day after their arrival they walked over in the afternoon to the lonely churchyard by the pine-woods.</span>
   <span id="f001508">There had been a great deal of difficulty at first about the inscription on Sir Simon’s tombstone,</span>
   <span id="f001509">but finally it had been decided to engrave on it simply the initials of the old gentleman’s name,</span>
   <span id="f001510">and the verse from the library window.</span>
   <span id="f001511">The Duchess had brought with her some lovely roses,</span>
   <span id="f001512">which she strewed upon the grave,</span>
   <span id="f001513">and after they had stood by it for some time they strolled into the ruined chancel of the old abbey.</span>
   <span id="f001514">There the Duchess sat down on a fallen pillar,</span>
   <span id="f001515">while her husband lay at her feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at her beautiful eyes.</span>
   <span id="f001516">Suddenly he threw his cigarette away,</span>
   <span id="f001517">took hold of her hand,</span>
   <span id="f001518">and said to her,</span>
   <span id="f001519">“Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f001520">a wife should have no secrets from her husband.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001521">“Dear Cecil!</span>
   <span id="f001522">I have no secrets from you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001523">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001524">you have,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f001525">smiling,</span>
   <span id="f001526">“you have never told me what happened to you when you were locked up with the ghost.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001527">“I have never told any one,</span>
   <span id="f001528">Cecil,” said Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f001529">gravely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001530">“I know that,</span>
   <span id="f001531">but you might tell me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001532">“Please don’t ask me,</span>
   <span id="f001533">Cecil,</span>
   <span id="f001534">I cannot tell you.</span>
   <span id="f001535">Poor Sir Simon!</span>
   <span id="f001536">I owe him a great deal.</span>
   <span id="f001537">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001538">don’t laugh,</span>
   <span id="f001539">Cecil,</span>
   <span id="f001540">I really do.</span>
   <span id="f001541">He made me see what Life is,</span>
   <span id="f001542">and what Death signifies,</span>
   <span id="f001543">and why Love is stronger than both.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001544">The Duke rose and kissed his wife lovingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001545">“You can have your secret as long as I have your heart,” he murmured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001546">“You have always had that,</span>
   <span id="f001547">Cecil.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001548">“And you will tell our children some day,</span>
   <span id="f001549">won’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001550">Virginia blushed.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

