<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Five Beloved Stories</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />O. Henry</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">A Cosmopolite in A Cafe</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">At midnight the café was crowded.</span>
   <span id="f000009">By some chance the little table at which I sat had escaped the eye of incomers,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and two vacant chairs at it extended their arms with venal hospitality to the influx of patrons.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">And then a cosmopolite sat in one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and I was glad,</span>
   <span id="f000013">for I held a theory that since Adam no true citizen of the world has existed.</span>
   <span id="f000014">We hear of them,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and we see foreign labels on much luggage,</span>
   <span id="f000016">but we find travellers instead of cosmopolites.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">I invoke your consideration of the scene – the marble-topped tables,</span>
   <span id="f000018">the range of leather-upholstered wall seats,</span>
   <span id="f000019">the gay company,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the ladies dressed in demi-state toilets,</span>
   <span id="f000021">speaking in an exquisite visible chorus of taste,</span>
   <span id="f000022">economy,</span>
   <span id="f000023">opulence or art;</span>
   <span id="f000024">the sedulous and largess-loving <em>garçons</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000025">the music wisely catering to all with its raids upon the composers;</span>
   <span id="f000026">the <em>mélange</em> of talk and laughter – and,</span>
   <span id="f000027">if you will,</span>
   <span id="f000028">the Würzburger in the tall glass cones that bend to your lips as a ripe cherry sways on its branch to the beak of a robber jay.</span>
   <span id="f000029">I was told by a sculptor from Mauch Chunk that the scene was truly Parisian.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">My cosmopolite was named E.</span>
   <span id="f000031">Rushmore Coglan,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and he will be heard from next summer at Coney Island.</span>
   <span id="f000033">He is to establish a new “attraction” there,</span>
   <span id="f000034">he informed me,</span>
   <span id="f000035">offering kingly diversion.</span>
   <span id="f000036">And then his conversation rang along parallels of latitude and longitude.</span>
   <span id="f000037">He took the great,</span>
   <span id="f000038">round world in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000039">so to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000040">familiarly,</span>
   <span id="f000041">contemptuously,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and it seemed no larger than the seed of a Maraschino cherry in a <em>table d’hôte</em> grape fruit.</span>
   <span id="f000043">He spoke disrespectfully of the equator,</span>
   <span id="f000044">he skipped from continent to continent,</span>
   <span id="f000045">he derided the zones,</span>
   <span id="f000046">he mopped up the high seas with his napkin.</span>
   <span id="f000047">With a wave of his hand he would speak of a certain bazaar in Hyderabad.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Whiff!</span>
   <span id="f000049">He would have you on skis in Lapland.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Zip!</span>
   <span id="f000051">Now you rode the breakers with the Kanakas at Kealaikahiki.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Presto!</span>
   <span id="f000053">He dragged you through an Arkansas post-oak swamp,</span>
   <span id="f000054">let you dry for a moment on the alkali plains of his Idaho ranch,</span>
   <span id="f000055">then whirled you into the society of Viennese archdukes.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Anon he would be telling you of a cold he acquired in a Chicago lake breeze and how old Escamila cured it in Buenos Ayres with a hot infusion of the <em>chuchula</em> weed.</span>
   <span id="f000057">You would have addressed a letter to “E.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Rushmore Coglan,</span>
   <span id="f000059">Esq.,</span>
   <span id="f000060">the Earth,</span>
   <span id="f000061">Solar System,</span>
   <span id="f000062">the Universe,” and have mailed it,</span>
   <span id="f000063">feeling confident that it would be delivered to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">I was sure that I had found at last the one true cosmopolite since Adam,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and I listened to his worldwide discourse fearful lest I should discover in it the local note of the mere globe-trotter.</span>
   <span id="f000066">But his opinions never fluttered or drooped;</span>
   <span id="f000067">he was as impartial to cities,</span>
   <span id="f000068">countries and continents as the winds or gravitation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">And as E.</span>
   <span id="f000070">Rushmore Coglan prattled of this little planet I thought with glee of a great almost-cosmopolite who wrote for the whole world and dedicated himself to Bombay.</span>
   <span id="f000071">In a poem he has to say that there is pride and rivalry between the cities of the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and that “the men that breed from them,</span>
   <span id="f000073">they traffic up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000074">but cling to their cities’ hem as a child to the mother’s gown.” And whenever they walk “by roaring streets unknown” they remember their native city “most faithful,</span>
   <span id="f000075">foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000076">fond;</span>
   <span id="f000077">making her mere-breathed name their bond upon their bond.” And my glee was roused because I had caught Mr.&#160;Kipling napping.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Here I had found a man not made from dust;</span>
   <span id="f000079">one who had no narrow boasts of birthplace or country,</span>
   <span id="f000080">one who,</span>
   <span id="f000081">if he bragged at all,</span>
   <span id="f000082">would brag of his whole round globe against the Martians and the inhabitants of the Moon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">Expression on these subjects was precipitated from E.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Rushmore Coglan by the third corner to our table.</span>
   <span id="f000085">While Coglan was describing to me the topography along the Siberian Railway the orchestra glided into a medley.</span>
   <span id="f000086">The concluding air was “Dixie,” and as the exhilarating notes tumbled forth they were almost overpowered by a great clapping of hands from almost every table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">It is worth a paragraph to say that this remarkable scene can be witnessed every evening in numerous cafés in the City of New York.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Tons of brew have been consumed over theories to account for it.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Some have conjectured hastily that all Southerners in town hie themselves to cafés at nightfall.</span>
   <span id="f000090">This applause of the “rebel” air in a Northern city does puzzle a little;</span>
   <span id="f000091">but it is not insolvable.</span>
   <span id="f000092">The war with Spain,</span>
   <span id="f000093">many years’ generous mint and watermelon crops,</span>
   <span id="f000094">a few long-shot winners at the New Orleans race-track,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and the brilliant banquets given by the Indiana and Kansas citizens who compose the North Carolina Society have made the South rather a “fad” in Manhattan.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Your manicure will lisp softly that your left forefinger reminds her so much of a gentleman’s in Richmond,</span>
   <span id="f000097">Va.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000099">certainly;</span>
   <span id="f000100">but many a lady has to work now – the war,</span>
   <span id="f000101">you know.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">When “Dixie” was being played a dark-haired young man sprang up from somewhere with a Mosby guerrilla yell and waved frantically his soft-brimmed hat.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Then he strayed through the smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000104">dropped into the vacant chair at our table and pulled out cigarettes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">The evening was at the period when reserve is thawed.</span>
   <span id="f000106">One of us mentioned three Würzburgers to the waiter;</span>
   <span id="f000107">the dark-haired young man acknowledged his inclusion in the order by a smile and a nod.</span>
   <span id="f000108">I hastened to ask him a question because I wanted to try out a theory I had.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“Would you mind telling me,” I began,</span>
   <span id="f000110">“whether you are from – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">The fist of E.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Rushmore Coglan banged the table and I was jarred into silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“Excuse me,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000114">“but that’s a question I never like to hear asked.</span>
   <span id="f000115">What does it matter where a man is from?</span>
   <span id="f000116">Is it fair to judge a man by his post-office address?</span>
   <span id="f000117">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000118">I’ve seen Kentuckians who hated whiskey,</span>
   <span id="f000119">Virginians who weren’t descended from Pocahontas,</span>
   <span id="f000120">Indianians who hadn’t written a novel,</span>
   <span id="f000121">Mexicans who didn’t wear velvet trousers with silver dollars sewed along the seams,</span>
   <span id="f000122">funny Englishmen,</span>
   <span id="f000123">spendthrift Yankees,</span>
   <span id="f000124">cold-blooded Southerners,</span>
   <span id="f000125">narrow-minded Westerners,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and New Yorkers who were too busy to stop for an hour on the street to watch a one-armed grocer’s clerk do up cranberries in paper bags.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Let a man be a man and don’t handicap him with the label of any section.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Pardon me,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000129">“but my curiosity was not altogether an idle one.</span>
   <span id="f000130">I know the South,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and when the band plays ’Dixie’ I like to observe.</span>
   <span id="f000132">I have formed the belief that the man who applauds that air with special violence and ostensible sectional loyalty is invariably a native of either Secaucus,</span>
   <span id="f000133">N.J.,</span>
   <span id="f000134">or the district between Murray Hill Lyceum and the Harlem River,</span>
   <span id="f000135">this city.</span>
   <span id="f000136">I was about to put my opinion to the test by inquiring of this gentleman when you interrupted with your own – larger theory,</span>
   <span id="f000137">I must confess.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">And now the dark-haired young man spoke to me,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and it became evident that his mind also moved along its own set of grooves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“I should like to be a periwinkle,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000141">mysteriously,</span>
   <span id="f000142">“on the top of a valley,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and sing tooralloo-ralloo.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">This was clearly too obscure,</span>
   <span id="f000145">so I turned again to Coglan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“I’ve been around the world twelve times,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000147">“I know an Esquimau in Upernavik who sends to Cincinnati for his neckties,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and I saw a goat-herder in Uruguay who won a prize in a Battle Creek breakfast food puzzle competition.</span>
   <span id="f000149">I pay rent on a room in Cairo,</span>
   <span id="f000150">Egypt,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and another in Yokohama all the year around.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I’ve got slippers waiting for me in a tea-house in Shanghai,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and I don’t have to tell ’em how to cook my eggs in Rio de Janeiro or Seattle.</span>
   <span id="f000154">It’s a mighty little old world.</span>
   <span id="f000155">What’s the use of bragging about being from the North,</span>
   <span id="f000156">or the South,</span>
   <span id="f000157">or the old manor house in the dale,</span>
   <span id="f000158">or Euclid avenue,</span>
   <span id="f000159">Cleveland,</span>
   <span id="f000160">or Pike’s Peak,</span>
   <span id="f000161">or Fairfax County,</span>
   <span id="f000162">Va.,</span>
   <span id="f000163">or Hooligan’s Flats or any place?</span>
   <span id="f000164">It’ll be a better world when we quit being fools about some mildewed town or ten acres of swampland just because we happened to be born there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">“You seem to be a genuine cosmopolite,” I said admiringly.</span>
   <span id="f000166">“But it also seems that you would decry patriotism.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“A relic of the stone age,” declared Coglan,</span>
   <span id="f000168">warmly.</span>
   <span id="f000169">“We are all brothers – Chinamen,</span>
   <span id="f000170">Englishmen,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Zulus,</span>
   <span id="f000172">Patagonians and the people in the bend of the Kaw River.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Some day all this petty pride in one’s city or State or section or country will be wiped out,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and we’ll all be citizens of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000175">as we ought to be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“But while you are wandering in foreign lands,” I persisted,</span>
   <span id="f000177">“do not your thoughts revert to some spot – some dear and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“Nary a spot,” interrupted E.</span>
   <span id="f000179">R.</span>
   <span id="f000180">Coglan,</span>
   <span id="f000181">flippantly.</span>
   <span id="f000182">“The terrestrial,</span>
   <span id="f000183">globular,</span>
   <span id="f000184">planetary hunk of matter,</span>
   <span id="f000185">slightly flattened at the poles,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and known as the Earth,</span>
   <span id="f000187">is my abode.</span>
   <span id="f000188">I’ve met a good many object-bound citizens of this country abroad.</span>
   <span id="f000189">I’ve seen men from Chicago sit in a gondola in Venice on a moonlight night and brag about their drainage canal.</span>
   <span id="f000190">I’ve seen a Southerner on being introduced to the King of England hand that monarch,</span>
   <span id="f000191">without batting his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000192">the information that his grand-aunt on his mother’s side was related by marriage to the Perkinses,</span>
   <span id="f000193">of Charleston.</span>
   <span id="f000194">I knew a New Yorker who was kidnapped for ransom by some Afghanistan bandits.</span>
   <span id="f000195">His people sent over the money and he came back to Kabul with the agent.</span>
   <span id="f000196">’Afghanistan?’ the natives said to him through an interpreter.</span>
   <span id="f000197">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000198">not so slow,</span>
   <span id="f000199">do you think?’ ’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000200">I don’t know,’ says he,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and he begins to tell them about a cab driver at Sixth avenue and Broadway.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Those ideas don’t suit me.</span>
   <span id="f000203">I’m not tied down to anything that isn’t 8,000 miles in diameter.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Just put me down as E.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Rushmore Coglan,</span>
   <span id="f000206">citizen of the terrestrial sphere.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">My cosmopolite made a large adieu and left me,</span>
   <span id="f000208">for he thought he saw some one through the chatter and smoke whom he knew.</span>
   <span id="f000209">So I was left with the would-be periwinkle,</span>
   <span id="f000210">who was reduced to Würzburger without further ability to voice his aspirations to perch,</span>
   <span id="f000211">melodious,</span>
   <span id="f000212">upon the summit of a valley.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">I sat reflecting upon my evident cosmopolite and wondering how the poet had managed to miss him.</span>
   <span id="f000214">He was my discovery and I believed in him.</span>
   <span id="f000215">How was it?</span>
   <span id="f000216">“The men that breed from them they traffic up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000217">but cling to their cities’ hem as a child to the mother’s gown.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">Not so E.</span>
   <span id="f000219">Rushmore Coglan.</span>
   <span id="f000220">With the whole world for his –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">My meditations were interrupted by a tremendous noise and conflict in another part of the café.</span>
   <span id="f000222">I saw above the heads of the seated patrons E.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Rushmore Coglan and a stranger to me engaged in terrific battle.</span>
   <span id="f000224">They fought between the tables like Titans,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and glasses crashed,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and men caught their hats up and were knocked down,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and a brunette screamed,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and a blonde began to sing “Teasing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">My cosmopolite was sustaining the pride and reputation of the Earth when the waiters closed in on both combatants with their famous flying wedge formation and bore them outside,</span>
   <span id="f000230">still resisting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">I called McCarthy,</span>
   <span id="f000232">one of the French <em>garçons</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and asked him the cause of the conflict.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“The man with the red tie”</span>
   <span id="f000235">(that was my cosmopolite),</span>
   <span id="f000236">said he,</span>
   <span id="f000237">“got hot on account of things said about the bum sidewalks and water supply of the place he come from by the other guy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“Why,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000239">bewildered,</span>
   <span id="f000240">“that man is a citizen of the world – a cosmopolite.</span>
   <span id="f000241">He – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“Originally from Mattawamkeag,</span>
   <span id="f000243">Maine,</span>
   <span id="f000244">he said,” continued McCarthy,</span>
   <span id="f000245">“and he wouldn’t stand for no knockin’ the place.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

