<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This LibriVox recording is in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />John Greenman</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000002">Italian With Grammar</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor">by<br />Mark Twain</p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000003">I found that a person of large intelligence could read this beautiful language with considerable facility without a dictionary,</span>
   <span id="f000004">but I presently found that to such a parson a grammar could be of use at times.</span>
   <span id="f000005">It is because,</span>
   <span id="f000006">if he does not know the WERE’S and the WAS’S and the MAYBE’S and the HAS-BEENS’S apart,</span>
   <span id="f000007">confusions and uncertainties can arise.</span>
   <span id="f000008">He can get the idea that a thing is going to happen next week when the truth is that it has already happened week before last.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Even more previously,</span>
   <span id="f000010">sometimes.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Examination and inquiry showed me that the adjectives and such things were frank and fair-minded and straightforward,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and did not shuffle;</span>
   <span id="f000013">it was the Verb that mixed the hands,</span>
   <span id="f000014">it was the Verb that lacked stability,</span>
   <span id="f000015">it was the Verb that had no permanent opinion about anything,</span>
   <span id="f000016">it was the Verb that was always dodging the issue and putting out the light and making all the trouble.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">Further examination,</span>
   <span id="f000018">further inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000019">further reflection,</span>
   <span id="f000020">confirmed this judgment,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and established beyond peradventure the fact that the Verb was the storm-center.</span>
   <span id="f000022">This discovery made plain the right and wise course to pursue in order to acquire certainty and exactness in understanding the statements which the newspaper was daily endeavoring to convey to me:</span>
   <span id="f000023">I must catch a Verb and tame it.</span>
   <span id="f000024">I must find out its ways,</span>
   <span id="f000025">I must spot its eccentricities,</span>
   <span id="f000026">I must penetrate its disguises,</span>
   <span id="f000027">I must intelligently foresee and forecast at least the commoner of the dodges it was likely to try upon a stranger in given circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000028">I must get in on its main shifts and head them off,</span>
   <span id="f000029">I must learn its game and play the limit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">I had noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000031">in other foreign languages,</span>
   <span id="f000032">that verbs are bred in families,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and that the members of each family have certain features or resemblances that are common to that family and distinguish it from the other families – the other kin,</span>
   <span id="f000034">the cousins and what not.</span>
   <span id="f000035">I had noticed that this family-mark is not usually the nose or the hair,</span>
   <span id="f000036">so to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000037">but the tail – the Termination – and that these tails are quite definitely differentiated;</span>
   <span id="f000038">insomuch that an expert can tell a Pluperfect from a Subjunctive by its tail as easily and as certainly as a cowboy can tell a cow from a horse by the like process,</span>
   <span id="f000039">the result of observation and culture.</span>
   <span id="f000040">I should explain that I am speaking of legitimate verbs,</span>
   <span id="f000041">those verbs which in the slang of the grammar are called Regular.</span>
   <span id="f000042">There are other – I am not meaning to conceal this;</span>
   <span id="f000043">others called Irregulars,</span>
   <span id="f000044">born out of wedlock,</span>
   <span id="f000045">of unknown and uninteresting parentage,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and naturally destitute of family resemblances,</span>
   <span id="f000047">as regards to all features,</span>
   <span id="f000048">tails included.</span>
   <span id="f000049">But of these pathetic outcasts I have nothing to say.</span>
   <span id="f000050">I do not approve of them,</span>
   <span id="f000051">I do not encourage them;</span>
   <span id="f000052">I am prudishly delicate and sensitive,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and I do not allow them to be used in my presence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">But,</span>
   <span id="f000055">as I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000056">I decided to catch one of the others and break it into harness.</span>
   <span id="f000057">One is enough.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Once familiar with its assortment of tails,</span>
   <span id="f000059">you are immune;</span>
   <span id="f000060">after that,</span>
   <span id="f000061">no regular verb can conceal its specialty from you and make you think it is working the past or the future or the conditional or the unconditional when it is engaged in some other line of business – its tail will give it away.</span>
   <span id="f000062">I found out all these things by myself,</span>
   <span id="f000063">without a teacher.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">I selected the verb AMARE,</span>
   <span id="f000065">TO LOVE.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Not for any personal reason,</span>
   <span id="f000067">for I am indifferent about verbs;</span>
   <span id="f000068">I care no more for one verb than for another,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and have little or no respect for any of them;</span>
   <span id="f000070">but in foreign languages you always begin with that one.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000072">I don’t know.</span>
   <span id="f000073">It is merely habit,</span>
   <span id="f000074">I suppose;</span>
   <span id="f000075">the first teacher chose it,</span>
   <span id="f000076">Adam was satisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and there hasn’t been a successor since with originality enough to start a fresh one.</span>
   <span id="f000078">For they ARE a pretty limited lot,</span>
   <span id="f000079">you will admit that?</span>
   <span id="f000080">Originality is not in their line;</span>
   <span id="f000081">they can’t think up anything new,</span>
   <span id="f000082">anything to freshen up the old moss-grown dullness of the language lesson and put life and “go” into it,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and charm and grace and picturesqueness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">I knew I must look after those details myself;</span>
   <span id="f000085">therefore I thought them out and wrote them down,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and set for the FACCHINO and explained them to him,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and said he must arrange a proper plant,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and get together a good stock company among the CONTADINI,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and design the costumes,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and distribute the parts;</span>
   <span id="f000091">and drill the troupe,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and be ready in three days to begin on this Verb in a shipshape and workman-like manner.</span>
   <span id="f000093">I told him to put each grand division of it under a foreman,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and each subdivision under a subordinate of the rank of sergeant or corporal or something like that,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and to have a different uniform for each squad,</span>
   <span id="f000096">so that I could tell a Pluperfect from a Compound Future without looking at the book;</span>
   <span id="f000097">the whole battery to be under his own special and particular command,</span>
   <span id="f000098">with the rank of Brigadier,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and I to pay the freight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">I then inquired into the character and possibilities of the selected verb,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and was much disturbed to find that it was over my size,</span>
   <span id="f000102">it being chambered for fifty-seven rounds – fifty-seven ways of saying I LOVE without reloading;</span>
   <span id="f000103">and yet none of them likely to convince a girl that was laying for a title,</span>
   <span id="f000104">or a title that was laying for rocks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">It seemed to me that with my inexperience it would be foolish to go into action with this mitrailleuse,</span>
   <span id="f000106">so I ordered it to the rear and told the facchino to provide something a little more primitive to start with,</span>
   <span id="f000107">something less elaborate,</span>
   <span id="f000108">some gentle old-fashioned flint-lock,</span>
   <span id="f000109">smooth-bore,</span>
   <span id="f000110">double-barreled thing,</span>
   <span id="f000111">calculated to cripple at two hundred yards and kill at forty – an arrangement suitable for a beginner who could be satisfied with moderate results on the offstart and did not wish to take the whole territory in the first campaign.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">But in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000113">He was not able to mend the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000114">all the verbs being of the same build,</span>
   <span id="f000115">all Gatlings,</span>
   <span id="f000116">all of the same caliber and delivery,</span>
   <span id="f000117">fifty-seven to the volley,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and fatal at a mile and a half.</span>
   <span id="f000119">But he said the auxiliary verb AVERE,</span>
   <span id="f000120">TO HAVE,</span>
   <span id="f000121">was a tidy thing,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and easy to handle in a seaway,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and less likely to miss stays in going about than some of the others;</span>
   <span id="f000124">so,</span>
   <span id="f000125">upon his recommendation I chose that one,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and told him to take it along and scrape its bottom and break out its spinnaker and get it ready for business.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">I will explain that a facchino is a general-utility domestic.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Mine was a horse-doctor in his better days,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and a very good one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">At the end of three days the facchino-doctor-brigadier was ready.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I was also ready,</span>
   <span id="f000132">with a stenographer.</span>
   <span id="f000133">We were in a room called the Rope-Walk.</span>
   <span id="f000134">This is a formidably long room,</span>
   <span id="f000135">as is indicated by its facetious name,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and is a good place for reviews.</span>
   <span id="f000137">At 9:30 the F.-D.-B.</span>
   <span id="f000138">took his place near me and gave the word of command;</span>
   <span id="f000139">the drums began to rumble and thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000140">the head of the forces appeared at an upper door,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and the “march-past” was on.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Down they filed,</span>
   <span id="f000143">a blaze of variegated color,</span>
   <span id="f000144">each squad gaudy in a uniform of its own and bearing a banner inscribed with its verbal rank and quality:</span>
   <span id="f000145">first the Present Tense in Mediterranean blue and old gold,</span>
   <span id="f000146">then the Past Definite in scarlet and black,</span>
   <span id="f000147">then the Imperfect in green and yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000148">then the Indicative Future in the stars and stripes,</span>
   <span id="f000149">then the Old Red Sandstone Subjunctive in purple and silver – and so on and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000150">fifty-seven privates and twenty commissioned and non-commissioned officers;</span>
   <span id="f000151">certainly one of the most fiery and dazzling and eloquent sights I have ever beheld.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I could not keep back the tears.</span>
   <span id="f000153">Presently:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“Halt!” commanded the Brigadier.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“Front – face!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“Right dress!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Stand at ease!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">“One – two – three.</span>
   <span id="f000159">In unison – RECITE!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">It was fine.</span>
   <span id="f000161">In one noble volume of sound of all the fifty-seven Haves in the Italian language burst forth in an exalting and splendid confusion.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Then came commands:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“About – face!</span>
   <span id="f000164">Eyes – front!</span>
   <span id="f000165">Helm alee – hard aport!</span>
   <span id="f000166">Forward – march!” and the drums let go again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">When the last Termination had disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000168">the commander said the instruction drill would now begin,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and asked for suggestions.</span>
   <span id="f000170">I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“They say I HAVE,</span>
   <span id="f000172">THOU HAST,</span>
   <span id="f000173">HE HAS,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000175">but they don’t say WHAT.</span>
   <span id="f000176">It will be better,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and more definite,</span>
   <span id="f000178">if they have something to have;</span>
   <span id="f000179">just an object,</span>
   <span id="f000180">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000181">a something – anything will do;</span>
   <span id="f000182">anything that will give the listener a sort of personal as well as grammatical interest in their joys and complaints,</span>
   <span id="f000183">you see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">He said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“It is a good point.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Would a dog do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">I said I did not know,</span>
   <span id="f000188">but we could try a dog and see.</span>
   <span id="f000189">So he sent out an aide-de-camp to give the order to add the dog.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">The six privates of the Present Tense now filed in,</span>
   <span id="f000191">in charge of Sergeant AVERE</span>
   <span id="f000192">(TO HAVE),</span>
   <span id="f000193">and displaying their banner.</span>
   <span id="f000194">They formed in line of battle,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and recited,</span>
   <span id="f000196">one at a time,</span>
   <span id="f000197">thus:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“IO HO UN CANE,</span>
   <span id="f000199">I have a dog.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“TU HAI UN CANE,</span>
   <span id="f000201">thou hast a dog.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“EGLI HA UN CANE,</span>
   <span id="f000203">he has a dog.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“NOI ABBIAMO UN CANE,</span>
   <span id="f000205">we have a dog.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“VOI AVETE UN CANE,</span>
   <span id="f000207">you have a dog.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“EGLINO HANNO UN CANE,</span>
   <span id="f000209">they have a dog.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">No comment followed.</span>
   <span id="f000211">They returned to camp,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and I reflected a while.</span>
   <span id="f000213">The commander said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“I fear you are disappointed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“Yes,” I said;</span>
   <span id="f000216">“they are too monotonous,</span>
   <span id="f000217">too singsong,</span>
   <span id="f000218">to dead-and-alive;</span>
   <span id="f000219">they have no expression,</span>
   <span id="f000220">no elocution.</span>
   <span id="f000221">It isn’t natural;</span>
   <span id="f000222">it could never happen in real life.</span>
   <span id="f000223">A person who had just acquired a dog is either blame’ glad or blame’ sorry.</span>
   <span id="f000224">He is not on the fence.</span>
   <span id="f000225">I never saw a case.</span>
   <span id="f000226">What the nation do you suppose is the matter with these people?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">He thought maybe the trouble was with the dog.</span>
   <span id="f000228">He said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“These are CONTADINI,</span>
   <span id="f000230">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and they have a prejudice against dogs – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000232">against marimane.</span>
   <span id="f000233">Marimana dogs stand guard over people’s vines and olives,</span>
   <span id="f000234">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and are very savage,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and thereby a grief and an inconvenience to persons who want other people’s things at night.</span>
   <span id="f000237">In my judgment they have taken this dog for a marimana,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and have soured on him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">I saw that the dog was a mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and not functionable:</span>
   <span id="f000241">we must try something else;</span>
   <span id="f000242">something,</span>
   <span id="f000243">if possible,</span>
   <span id="f000244">that could evoke sentiment,</span>
   <span id="f000245">interest,</span>
   <span id="f000246">feeling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“What is cat,</span>
   <span id="f000248">in Italian?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">“Gatto.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“Is it a gentleman cat,</span>
   <span id="f000251">or a lady?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Gentleman cat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“How are these people as regards that animal?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“We-ll,</span>
   <span id="f000255">they – they – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">“You hesitate:</span>
   <span id="f000257">that is enough.</span>
   <span id="f000258">How are they about chickens?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">He tilted his eyes toward heaven in mute ecstasy.</span>
   <span id="f000260">I understood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“What is chicken,</span>
   <span id="f000262">in Italian?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Pollo,</span>
   <span id="f000264">PODERE.”</span>
   <span id="f000265">(Podere is Italian for master.</span>
   <span id="f000266">It is a title of courtesy,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and conveys reverence and admiration.)</span>
   <span id="f000268">“Pollo is one chicken by itself;</span>
   <span id="f000269">when there are enough present to constitute a plural,</span>
   <span id="f000270">it is POLLI.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000272">polli will do.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Which squad is detailed for duty next?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“The Past Definite.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“Send out and order it to the front – with chickens.</span>
   <span id="f000276">And let them understand that we don’t want any more of this cold indifference.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">He gave the order to an aide,</span>
   <span id="f000278">adding,</span>
   <span id="f000279">with a haunting tenderness in his tone and a watering mouth in his aspect:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“Convey to them the conception that these are unprotected chickens.” He turned to me,</span>
   <span id="f000281">saluting with his hand to his temple,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and explained,</span>
   <span id="f000283">“It will inflame their interest in the poultry,</span>
   <span id="f000284">sire.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">A few minutes elapsed.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Then the squad marched in and formed up,</span>
   <span id="f000287">their faces glowing with enthusiasm,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and the file-leader shouted:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“EBBI POLLI,</span>
   <span id="f000290">I had chickens!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“Good!” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000292">“Go on,</span>
   <span id="f000293">the next.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“AVEST POLLI,</span>
   <span id="f000295">thou hadst chickens!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“Fine!</span>
   <span id="f000297">Next!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“EBBE POLLI,</span>
   <span id="f000299">he had chickens!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“Moltimoltissimo!</span>
   <span id="f000301">Go on,</span>
   <span id="f000302">the next!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“AVEMMO POLLI,</span>
   <span id="f000304">we had chickens!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“Basta-basta aspettatto avanti – last man – CHARGE!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“EBBERO POLLI,</span>
   <span id="f000307">they had chickens!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">Then they formed in echelon,</span>
   <span id="f000309">by columns of fours,</span>
   <span id="f000310">refused the left,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and retired in great style on the double-quick.</span>
   <span id="f000312">I was enchanted,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000315">doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000316">that is something LIKE!</span>
   <span id="f000317">Chickens are the ticket,</span>
   <span id="f000318">there is no doubt about it.</span>
   <span id="f000319">What is the next squad?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“The Imperfect.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“How does it go?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“IO AVENA,</span>
   <span id="f000323">I had,</span>
   <span id="f000324">TU AVEVI,</span>
   <span id="f000325">thou hadst,</span>
   <span id="f000326">EGLI AVENA,</span>
   <span id="f000327">he had,</span>
   <span id="f000328">NOI AV – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">“Wait – we’ve just HAD the hads.</span>
   <span id="f000330">What are you giving me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“But this is another breed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“What do we want of another breed?</span>
   <span id="f000333">Isn’t one breed enough?</span>
   <span id="f000334">HAD is HAD,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and your tricking it out in a fresh way of spelling isn’t going to make it any hadder than it was before;</span>
   <span id="f000336">now you know that yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“But there is a distinction – they are not just the same Hads.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">“How do you make it out?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000340">you use that first Had when you are referring to something that happened at a named and sharp and perfectly definite moment;</span>
   <span id="f000341">you use the other when the thing happened at a vaguely defined time and in a more prolonged and indefinitely continuous way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000343">doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000344">it is pure nonsense;</span>
   <span id="f000345">you know it yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000346">Look here:</span>
   <span id="f000347">If I have had a had,</span>
   <span id="f000348">or have wanted to have had a had,</span>
   <span id="f000349">or was in a position right then and there to have had a had that hadn’t had any chance to go out hadding on account of this foolish discrimination which lets one Had go hadding in any kind of indefinite grammatical weather but restricts the other one to definite and datable meteoric convulsions,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and keeps it pining around and watching the barometer all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and liable to get sick through confinement and lack of exercise,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and all that sort of thing,</span>
   <span id="f000353">why – why,</span>
   <span id="f000354">the inhumanity of it is enough,</span>
   <span id="f000355">let alone the wanton superfluity and uselessness of any such a loafing consumptive hospital-bird of a Had taking up room and cumbering the place for nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000356">These finical refinements revolt me;</span>
   <span id="f000357">it is not right,</span>
   <span id="f000358">it is not honorable;</span>
   <span id="f000359">it is constructive nepotism to keep in office a Had that is so delicate it can’t come out when the wind’s in the nor’west – I won’t have this dude on the payroll.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Cancel his exequator;</span>
   <span id="f000361">and look here – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">“But you miss the point.</span>
   <span id="f000363">It is like this.</span>
   <span id="f000364">You see – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“Never mind explaining,</span>
   <span id="f000366">I don’t care anything about it.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Six Hads is enough for me;</span>
   <span id="f000368">anybody that needs twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000369">let him subscribe;</span>
   <span id="f000370">I don’t want any stock in a Had Trust.</span>
   <span id="f000371">Knock out the Prolonged and Indefinitely Continuous;</span>
   <span id="f000372">four-fifths of it is water,</span>
   <span id="f000373">anyway.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“But I beg you,</span>
   <span id="f000375">podere!</span>
   <span id="f000376">It is often quite indispensable in cases where – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“Pipe the next squad to the assault!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">But it was not to be;</span>
   <span id="f000379">for at that moment the dull boom of the noon gun floated up out of far-off Florence,</span>
   <span id="f000380">followed by the usual softened jangle of church-bells,</span>
   <span id="f000381">Florentine and suburban,</span>
   <span id="f000382">that bursts out in murmurous response;</span>
   <span id="f000383">by labor-union law the COLAZIONE</span>
   <span id="f000384">(Colazione is Italian for a collection,</span>
   <span id="f000385">a meeting,</span>
   <span id="f000386">a seance,</span>
   <span id="f000387">a sitting)</span>
   <span id="f000388">must stop;</span>
   <span id="f000389">stop promptly,</span>
   <span id="f000390">stop instantly,</span>
   <span id="f000391">stop definitely,</span>
   <span id="f000392">like the chosen and best of the breed of Hads.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

