<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure I<br />A Scandal in Bohemia</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000008">I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000009">To Sherlock Holmes she is always THE woman.</span>
   <span id="f000010">I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name.</span>
   <span id="f000011">In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex.</span>
   <span id="f000012">It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler.</span>
   <span id="f000013">All emotions,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and that one particularly,</span>
   <span id="f000015">were abhorrent to his cold,</span>
   <span id="f000016">precise but admirably balanced mind.</span>
   <span id="f000017">He was,</span>
   <span id="f000018">I take it,</span>
   <span id="f000019">the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen,</span>
   <span id="f000020">but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position.</span>
   <span id="f000021">He never spoke of the softer passions,</span>
   <span id="f000022">save with a gibe and a sneer.</span>
   <span id="f000023">They were admirable things for the observer – excellent for drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions.</span>
   <span id="f000024">But for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Grit in a sensitive instrument,</span>
   <span id="f000026">or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses,</span>
   <span id="f000027">would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his.</span>
   <span id="f000028">And yet there was but one woman to him,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and that woman was the late Irene Adler,</span>
   <span id="f000030">of dubious and questionable memory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">I had seen little of Holmes lately.</span>
   <span id="f000032">My marriage had drifted us away from each other.</span>
   <span id="f000033">My own complete happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and the home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment,</span>
   <span id="f000035">were sufficient to absorb all my attention,</span>
   <span id="f000036">while Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000037">who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul,</span>
   <span id="f000038">remained in our lodgings in Baker Street,</span>
   <span id="f000039">buried among his old books,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition,</span>
   <span id="f000041">the drowsiness of the drug,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and the fierce energy of his own keen nature.</span>
   <span id="f000043">He was still,</span>
   <span id="f000044">as ever,</span>
   <span id="f000045">deeply attracted by the study of crime,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.</span>
   <span id="f000048">From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings:</span>
   <span id="f000049">of his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder,</span>
   <span id="f000050">of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Beyond these signs of his activity,</span>
   <span id="f000053">however,</span>
   <span id="f000054">which I merely shared with all the readers of the daily press,</span>
   <span id="f000055">I knew little of my former friend and companion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">One night – it was on the twentieth of March,</span>
   <span id="f000057">1888 – I was returning from a journey to a patient</span>
   <span id="f000058">(for I had now returned to civil practice),</span>
   <span id="f000059">when my way led me through Baker Street.</span>
   <span id="f000060">As I passed the well-remembered door,</span>
   <span id="f000061">which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet,</span>
   <span id="f000063">I was seized with a keen desire to see Holmes again,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers.</span>
   <span id="f000065">His rooms were brilliantly lit,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and,</span>
   <span id="f000067">even as I looked up,</span>
   <span id="f000068">I saw his tall,</span>
   <span id="f000069">spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind.</span>
   <span id="f000070">He was pacing the room swiftly,</span>
   <span id="f000071">eagerly,</span>
   <span id="f000072">with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him.</span>
   <span id="f000073">To me,</span>
   <span id="f000074">who knew his every mood and habit,</span>
   <span id="f000075">his attitude and manner told their own story.</span>
   <span id="f000076">He was at work again.</span>
   <span id="f000077">He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem.</span>
   <span id="f000078">I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">His manner was not effusive.</span>
   <span id="f000080">It seldom was;</span>
   <span id="f000081">but he was glad,</span>
   <span id="f000082">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000083">to see me.</span>
   <span id="f000084">With hardly a word spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000085">but with a kindly eye,</span>
   <span id="f000086">he waved me to an armchair,</span>
   <span id="f000087">threw across his case of cigars,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“Wedlock suits you,” he remarked.</span>
   <span id="f000091">“I think,</span>
   <span id="f000092">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000093">that you have put on seven and a half pounds since I saw you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“Seven!” I answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000096">I should have thought a little more.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Just a trifle more,</span>
   <span id="f000098">I fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000099">Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000100">And in practice again,</span>
   <span id="f000101">I observe.</span>
   <span id="f000102">You did not tell me that you intended to go into harness.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000104">how do you know?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“I see it,</span>
   <span id="f000106">I deduce it.</span>
   <span id="f000107">How do I know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“My dear Holmes,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000110">“this is too much.</span>
   <span id="f000111">You would certainly have been burned,</span>
   <span id="f000112">had you lived a few centuries ago.</span>
   <span id="f000113">It is true that I had a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess,</span>
   <span id="f000114">but as I have changed my clothes I can’t imagine how you deduce it.</span>
   <span id="f000115">As to Mary Jane,</span>
   <span id="f000116">she is incorrigible,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and my wife has given her notice,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but there,</span>
   <span id="f000119">again,</span>
   <span id="f000120">I fail to see how you work it out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long,</span>
   <span id="f000122">nervous hands together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“It is simplicity itself,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000124">“my eyes tell me that on the inside of your left shoe,</span>
   <span id="f000125">just where the firelight strikes it,</span>
   <span id="f000126">the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Hence,</span>
   <span id="f000129">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000130">my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and that you had a particularly malignant boot-slitting specimen of the London slavey.</span>
   <span id="f000132">As to your practice,</span>
   <span id="f000133">if a gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform,</span>
   <span id="f000134">with a black mark of nitrate of silver upon his right forefinger,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat to show where he has secreted his stethoscope,</span>
   <span id="f000136">I must be dull,</span>
   <span id="f000137">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000138">if I do not pronounce him to be an active member of the medical profession.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction.</span>
   <span id="f000140">“When I hear you give your reasons,” I remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000141">“the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that I could easily do it myself,</span>
   <span id="f000142">though at each successive instance of your reasoning I am baffled until you explain your process.</span>
   <span id="f000143">And yet I believe that my eyes are as good as yours.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“Quite so,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000145">lighting a cigarette,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and throwing himself down into an armchair.</span>
   <span id="f000147">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000148">but you do not observe.</span>
   <span id="f000149">The distinction is clear.</span>
   <span id="f000150">For example,</span>
   <span id="f000151">you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“Frequently.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“How often?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000155">some hundreds of times.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“Then how many are there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“How many?</span>
   <span id="f000158">I don’t know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“Quite so!</span>
   <span id="f000160">You have not observed.</span>
   <span id="f000161">And yet you have seen.</span>
   <span id="f000162">That is just my point.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000164">I know that there are seventeen steps,</span>
   <span id="f000165">because I have both seen and observed.</span>
   <span id="f000166">By-the-way,</span>
   <span id="f000167">since you are interested in these little problems,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences,</span>
   <span id="f000169">you may be interested in this.” He threw over a sheet of thick,</span>
   <span id="f000170">pink-tinted note-paper which had been lying open upon the table.</span>
   <span id="f000171">“It came by the last post,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000172">“Read it aloud.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">The note was undated,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and without either signature or address.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“There will call upon you to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000176">at a quarter to eight o’clock,” it said,</span>
   <span id="f000177">“a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Your recent services to one of the royal houses of Europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated.</span>
   <span id="f000179">This account of you we have from all quarters received.</span>
   <span id="f000180">Be in your chamber then at that hour,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“This is indeed a mystery,” I remarked.</span>
   <span id="f000183">“What do you imagine that it means?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“I have no data yet.</span>
   <span id="f000185">It is a capital mistake to theorize before one has data.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories,</span>
   <span id="f000187">instead of theories to suit facts.</span>
   <span id="f000188">But the note itself.</span>
   <span id="f000189">What do you deduce from it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">I carefully examined the writing,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and the paper upon which it was written.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“The man who wrote it was presumably well to do,” I remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000193">endeavouring to imitate my companion’s processes.</span>
   <span id="f000194">“Such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet.</span>
   <span id="f000195">It is peculiarly strong and stiff.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Peculiar – that is the very word,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000197">“It is not an English paper at all.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Hold it up to the light.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">I did so,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and saw a large “E” with a small “g,” a “P,” and a large “G” with a small “t” woven into the texture of the paper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“What do you make of that?” asked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“The name of the maker,</span>
   <span id="f000203">no doubt;</span>
   <span id="f000204">or his monogram,</span>
   <span id="f000205">rather.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000207">The ’G’ with the small ’t’ stands for ’Gesellschaft,’ which is the German for ’Company.’ It is a customary contraction like our ’Co.’ ’P,’ of course,</span>
   <span id="f000208">stands for ’Papier.’ Now for the ’Eg.’ Let us glance at our Continental Gazetteer.” He took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves.</span>
   <span id="f000209">“Eglow,</span>
   <span id="f000210">Eglonitz – here we are,</span>
   <span id="f000211">Egria.</span>
   <span id="f000212">It is in a German-speaking country – in Bohemia,</span>
   <span id="f000213">not far from Carlsbad.</span>
   <span id="f000214">’Remarkable as being the scene of the death of Wallenstein,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and for its numerous glass-factories and paper-mills.’ Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000216">ha,</span>
   <span id="f000217">my boy,</span>
   <span id="f000218">what do you make of that?” His eyes sparkled,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">“The paper was made in Bohemia,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">“Precisely.</span>
   <span id="f000222">And the man who wrote the note is a German.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence – ’This account of you we have from all quarters received.’ A Frenchman or Russian could not have written that.</span>
   <span id="f000224">It is the German who is so uncourteous to his verbs.</span>
   <span id="f000225">It only remains,</span>
   <span id="f000226">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000227">to discover what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his face.</span>
   <span id="f000228">And here he comes,</span>
   <span id="f000229">if I am not mistaken,</span>
   <span id="f000230">to resolve all our doubts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses’ hoofs and grating wheels against the curb,</span>
   <span id="f000232">followed by a sharp pull at the bell.</span>
   <span id="f000233">Holmes whistled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“A pair,</span>
   <span id="f000235">by the sound,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000236">“Yes,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000237">glancing out of the window.</span>
   <span id="f000238">“A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties.</span>
   <span id="f000239">A hundred and fifty guineas apiece.</span>
   <span id="f000240">There’s money in this case,</span>
   <span id="f000241">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000242">if there is nothing else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“I think that I had better go,</span>
   <span id="f000244">Holmes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">“Not a bit,</span>
   <span id="f000246">Doctor.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Stay where you are.</span>
   <span id="f000248">I am lost without my Boswell.</span>
   <span id="f000249">And this promises to be interesting.</span>
   <span id="f000250">It would be a pity to miss it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“But your client – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Never mind him.</span>
   <span id="f000253">I may want your help,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and so may he.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Here he comes.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Sit down in that armchair,</span>
   <span id="f000257">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and give us your best attention.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">A slow and heavy step,</span>
   <span id="f000260">which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000261">paused immediately outside the door.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Then there was a loud and authoritative tap.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Come in!” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches in height,</span>
   <span id="f000265">with the chest and limbs of a Hercules.</span>
   <span id="f000266">His dress was rich with a richness which would,</span>
   <span id="f000267">in England,</span>
   <span id="f000268">be looked upon as akin to bad taste.</span>
   <span id="f000269">Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and fronts of his double-breasted coat,</span>
   <span id="f000270">while the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming beryl.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Boots which extended halfway up his calves,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur,</span>
   <span id="f000273">completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000274">He carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000275">while he wore across the upper part of his face,</span>
   <span id="f000276">extending down past the cheekbones,</span>
   <span id="f000277">a black vizard mask,</span>
   <span id="f000278">which he had apparently adjusted that very moment,</span>
   <span id="f000279">for his hand was still raised to it as he entered.</span>
   <span id="f000280">From the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character,</span>
   <span id="f000281">with a thick,</span>
   <span id="f000282">hanging lip,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and a long,</span>
   <span id="f000284">straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">“You had my note?” he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked German accent.</span>
   <span id="f000286">“I told you that I would call.” He looked from one to the other of us,</span>
   <span id="f000287">as if uncertain which to address.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“Pray take a seat,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000289">“This is my friend and colleague,</span>
   <span id="f000290">Dr.&#160;Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000291">who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Whom have I the honour to address?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“You may address me as the Count Von Kramm,</span>
   <span id="f000294">a Bohemian nobleman.</span>
   <span id="f000295">I understand that this gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000296">your friend,</span>
   <span id="f000297">is a man of honour and discretion,</span>
   <span id="f000298">whom I may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance.</span>
   <span id="f000299">If not,</span>
   <span id="f000300">I should much prefer to communicate with you alone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">I rose to go,</span>
   <span id="f000302">but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair.</span>
   <span id="f000303">“It is both,</span>
   <span id="f000304">or none,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000305">“You may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">The Count shrugged his broad shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000307">“Then I must begin,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000308">“by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years;</span>
   <span id="f000309">at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance.</span>
   <span id="f000310">At present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon European history.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“I promise,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“And I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“You will excuse this mask,” continued our strange visitor.</span>
   <span id="f000314">“The august person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and I may confess at once that the title by which I have just called myself is not exactly my own.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“I was aware of it,” said Holmes dryly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“The circumstances are of great delicacy,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and every precaution has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of Europe.</span>
   <span id="f000319">To speak plainly,</span>
   <span id="f000320">the matter implicates the great House of Ormstein,</span>
   <span id="f000321">hereditary kings of Bohemia.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“I was also aware of that,” murmured Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000323">settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid,</span>
   <span id="f000325">lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe.</span>
   <span id="f000326">Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“If your Majesty would condescend to state your case,” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000328">“I should be better able to advise you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000331">with a gesture of desperation,</span>
   <span id="f000332">he tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000333">“You are right,” he cried;</span>
   <span id="f000334">“I am the King.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Why should I attempt to conceal it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000337">indeed?” murmured Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000338">“Your Majesty had not spoken before I was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich Sigismond von Ormstein,</span>
   <span id="f000339">Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and hereditary King of Bohemia.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">“But you can understand,” said our strange visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000342">sitting down once more and passing his hand over his high white forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000343">“you can understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own person.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power.</span>
   <span id="f000345">I have come incognito from Prague for the purpose of consulting you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000347">pray consult,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000348">shutting his eyes once more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“The facts are briefly these:</span>
   <span id="f000350">Some five years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000351">during a lengthy visit to Warsaw,</span>
   <span id="f000352">I made the acquaintance of the well-known adventuress,</span>
   <span id="f000353">Irene Adler.</span>
   <span id="f000354">The name is no doubt familiar to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“Kindly look her up in my index,</span>
   <span id="f000356">Doctor,” murmured Holmes without opening his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000357">For many years he had adopted a system of docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things,</span>
   <span id="f000358">so that it was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish information.</span>
   <span id="f000359">In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a monograph upon the deep-sea fishes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“Let me see!” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000361">“Hum!</span>
   <span id="f000362">Born in New Jersey in the year 1858.</span>
   <span id="f000363">Contralto – hum!</span>
   <span id="f000364">La Scala,</span>
   <span id="f000365">hum!</span>
   <span id="f000366">Prima donna Imperial Opera of Warsaw – yes!</span>
   <span id="f000367">Retired from operatic stage – ha!</span>
   <span id="f000368">Living in London – quite so!</span>
   <span id="f000369">Your Majesty,</span>
   <span id="f000370">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000371">became entangled with this young person,</span>
   <span id="f000372">wrote her some compromising letters,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and is now desirous of getting those letters back.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“Precisely so.</span>
   <span id="f000375">But how – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">“Was there a secret marriage?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“None.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">“No legal papers or certificates?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“None.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">“Then I fail to follow your Majesty.</span>
   <span id="f000381">If this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes,</span>
   <span id="f000382">how is she to prove their authenticity?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">“There is the writing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“Pooh,</span>
   <span id="f000385">pooh!</span>
   <span id="f000386">Forgery.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“My private note-paper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“Stolen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">“My own seal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">“Imitated.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“My photograph.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“Bought.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“We were both in the photograph.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000395">dear!</span>
   <span id="f000396">That is very bad!</span>
   <span id="f000397">Your Majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">“I was mad – insane.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“You have compromised yourself seriously.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">“I was only Crown Prince then.</span>
   <span id="f000401">I was young.</span>
   <span id="f000402">I am but thirty now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">“It must be recovered.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“We have tried and failed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Your Majesty must pay.</span>
   <span id="f000406">It must be bought.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“She will not sell.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“Stolen,</span>
   <span id="f000409">then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“Five attempts have been made.</span>
   <span id="f000411">Twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house.</span>
   <span id="f000412">Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled.</span>
   <span id="f000413">Twice she has been waylaid.</span>
   <span id="f000414">There has been no result.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“No sign of it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">“Absolutely none.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">Holmes laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000418">“It is quite a pretty little problem,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“But a very serious one to me,” returned the King reproachfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000420">“Very,</span>
   <span id="f000421">indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000422">And what does she propose to do with the photograph?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“To ruin me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“But how?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“I am about to be married.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“So I have heard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">“To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen,</span>
   <span id="f000428">second daughter of the King of Scandinavia.</span>
   <span id="f000429">You may know the strict principles of her family.</span>
   <span id="f000430">She is herself the very soul of delicacy.</span>
   <span id="f000431">A shadow of a doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">“And Irene Adler?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“Threatens to send them the photograph.</span>
   <span id="f000434">And she will do it.</span>
   <span id="f000435">I know that she will do it.</span>
   <span id="f000436">You do not know her,</span>
   <span id="f000437">but she has a soul of steel.</span>
   <span id="f000438">She has the face of the most beautiful of women,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and the mind of the most resolute of men.</span>
   <span id="f000440">Rather than I should marry another woman,</span>
   <span id="f000441">there are no lengths to which she would not go – none.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">“You are sure that she has not sent it yet?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“I am sure.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“And why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the betrothal was publicly proclaimed.</span>
   <span id="f000446">That will be next Monday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000448">then we have three days yet,” said Holmes with a yawn.</span>
   <span id="f000449">“That is very fortunate,</span>
   <span id="f000450">as I have one or two matters of importance to look into just at present.</span>
   <span id="f000451">Your Majesty will,</span>
   <span id="f000452">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000453">stay in London for the present?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“Certainly.</span>
   <span id="f000455">You will find me at the Langham under the name of the Count Von Kramm.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">“Pray do so.</span>
   <span id="f000458">I shall be all anxiety.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000460">as to money?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“You have carte blanche.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">“Absolutely?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">“I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom to have that photograph.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">“And for present expenses?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">“There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“And Mademoiselle’s address?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“Is Briony Lodge,</span>
   <span id="f000470">Serpentine Avenue,</span>
   <span id="f000471">St.&#160;John’s Wood.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">Holmes took a note of it.</span>
   <span id="f000473">“One other question,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000474">“Was the photograph a cabinet?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“It was.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000477">good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000478">your Majesty,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and I trust that we shall soon have some good news for you.</span>
   <span id="f000480">And good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000481">Watson,” he added,</span>
   <span id="f000482">as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street.</span>
   <span id="f000483">“If you will be good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three o’clock I should like to chat this little matter over with you.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000484">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000485">At three o’clock precisely I was at Baker Street,</span>
   <span id="f000486">but Holmes had not yet returned.</span>
   <span id="f000487">The landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o’clock in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000488">I sat down beside the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000489">however,</span>
   <span id="f000490">with the intention of awaiting him,</span>
   <span id="f000491">however long he might be.</span>
   <span id="f000492">I was already deeply interested in his inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000493">for,</span>
   <span id="f000494">though it was surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were associated with the two crimes which I have already recorded,</span>
   <span id="f000495">still,</span>
   <span id="f000496">the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a character of its own.</span>
   <span id="f000497">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000498">apart from the nature of the investigation which my friend had on hand,</span>
   <span id="f000499">there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and his keen,</span>
   <span id="f000501">incisive reasoning,</span>
   <span id="f000502">which made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and to follow the quick,</span>
   <span id="f000504">subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable mysteries.</span>
   <span id="f000505">So accustomed was I to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">It was close upon four before the door opened,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and a drunken-looking groom,</span>
   <span id="f000508">ill-kempt and side-whiskered,</span>
   <span id="f000509">with an inflamed face and disreputable clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000510">walked into the room.</span>
   <span id="f000511">Accustomed as I was to my friend’s amazing powers in the use of disguises,</span>
   <span id="f000512">I had to look three times before I was certain that it was indeed he.</span>
   <span id="f000513">With a nod he vanished into the bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000514">whence he emerged in five minutes tweed-suited and respectable,</span>
   <span id="f000515">as of old.</span>
   <span id="f000516">Putting his hands into his pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000517">he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000519">really!” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and then he choked and laughed again until he was obliged to lie back,</span>
   <span id="f000521">limp and helpless,</span>
   <span id="f000522">in the chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“It’s quite too funny.</span>
   <span id="f000525">I am sure you could never guess how I employed my morning,</span>
   <span id="f000526">or what I ended by doing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">“I can’t imagine.</span>
   <span id="f000528">I suppose that you have been watching the habits,</span>
   <span id="f000529">and perhaps the house,</span>
   <span id="f000530">of Miss Irene Adler.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">Quite so;</span>
   <span id="f000532">but the sequel was rather unusual.</span>
   <span id="f000533">I will tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000534">however.</span>
   <span id="f000535">I left the house a little after eight o’clock this morning in the character of a groom out of work.</span>
   <span id="f000536">There is a wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men.</span>
   <span id="f000537">Be one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and you will know all that there is to know.</span>
   <span id="f000539">I soon found Briony Lodge.</span>
   <span id="f000540">It is a bijou villa,</span>
   <span id="f000541">with a garden at the back,</span>
   <span id="f000542">but built out in front right up to the road,</span>
   <span id="f000543">two stories.</span>
   <span id="f000544">Chubb lock to the door.</span>
   <span id="f000545">Large sitting-room on the right side,</span>
   <span id="f000546">well furnished,</span>
   <span id="f000547">with long windows almost to the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000548">and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open.</span>
   <span id="f000549">Behind there was nothing remarkable,</span>
   <span id="f000550">save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the coach-house.</span>
   <span id="f000551">I walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view,</span>
   <span id="f000552">but without noting anything else of interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">“I then lounged down the street and found,</span>
   <span id="f000554">as I expected,</span>
   <span id="f000555">that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden.</span>
   <span id="f000556">I lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and received in exchange twopence,</span>
   <span id="f000558">a glass of half and half,</span>
   <span id="f000559">two fills of shag tobacco,</span>
   <span id="f000560">and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler,</span>
   <span id="f000561">to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested,</span>
   <span id="f000562">but whose biographies I was compelled to listen to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">“And what of Irene Adler?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000564">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000565">she has turned all the men’s heads down in that part.</span>
   <span id="f000566">She is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet.</span>
   <span id="f000567">So say the Serpentine-mews,</span>
   <span id="f000568">to a man.</span>
   <span id="f000569">She lives quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000570">sings at concerts,</span>
   <span id="f000571">drives out at five every day,</span>
   <span id="f000572">and returns at seven sharp for dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000573">Seldom goes out at other times,</span>
   <span id="f000574">except when she sings.</span>
   <span id="f000575">Has only one male visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000576">but a good deal of him.</span>
   <span id="f000577">He is dark,</span>
   <span id="f000578">handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and dashing,</span>
   <span id="f000580">never calls less than once a day,</span>
   <span id="f000581">and often twice.</span>
   <span id="f000582">He is a Mr.&#160;Godfrey Norton,</span>
   <span id="f000583">of the Inner Temple.</span>
   <span id="f000584">See the advantages of a cabman as a confidant.</span>
   <span id="f000585">They had driven him home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews,</span>
   <span id="f000586">and knew all about him.</span>
   <span id="f000587">When I had listened to all they had to tell,</span>
   <span id="f000588">I began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more,</span>
   <span id="f000589">and to think over my plan of campaign.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000591">He was a lawyer.</span>
   <span id="f000592">That sounded ominous.</span>
   <span id="f000593">What was the relation between them,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and what the object of his repeated visits?</span>
   <span id="f000595">Was she his client,</span>
   <span id="f000596">his friend,</span>
   <span id="f000597">or his mistress?</span>
   <span id="f000598">If the former,</span>
   <span id="f000599">she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping.</span>
   <span id="f000600">If the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000601">it was less likely.</span>
   <span id="f000602">On the issue of this question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony Lodge,</span>
   <span id="f000603">or turn my attention to the gentleman’s chambers in the Temple.</span>
   <span id="f000604">It was a delicate point,</span>
   <span id="f000605">and it widened the field of my inquiry.</span>
   <span id="f000606">I fear that I bore you with these details,</span>
   <span id="f000607">but I have to let you see my little difficulties,</span>
   <span id="f000608">if you are to understand the situation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">“I am following you closely,” I answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to Briony Lodge,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and a gentleman sprang out.</span>
   <span id="f000612">He was a remarkably handsome man,</span>
   <span id="f000613">dark,</span>
   <span id="f000614">aquiline,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and moustached – evidently the man of whom I had heard.</span>
   <span id="f000616">He appeared to be in a great hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000617">shouted to the cabman to wait,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly at home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">He was in the house about half an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and I could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting-room,</span>
   <span id="f000621">pacing up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000622">talking excitedly,</span>
   <span id="f000623">and waving his arms.</span>
   <span id="f000624">Of her I could see nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000625">Presently he emerged,</span>
   <span id="f000626">looking even more flurried than before.</span>
   <span id="f000627">As he stepped up to the cab,</span>
   <span id="f000628">he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly,</span>
   <span id="f000629">’Drive like the devil,’ he shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000630">’first to Gross &amp;</span>
   <span id="f000631">Hankey’s in Regent Street,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and then to the Church of St.&#160;Monica in the Edgeware Road.</span>
   <span id="f000633">Half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">Away they went,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and I was just wondering whether I should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau,</span>
   <span id="f000636">the coachman with his coat only half-buttoned,</span>
   <span id="f000637">and his tie under his ear,</span>
   <span id="f000638">while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles.</span>
   <span id="f000639">It hadn’t pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it.</span>
   <span id="f000640">I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000641">but she was a lovely woman,</span>
   <span id="f000642">with a face that a man might die for.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">’The Church of St.&#160;Monica,</span>
   <span id="f000644">John,’ she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000645">’and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">This was quite too good to lose,</span>
   <span id="f000647">Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000648">I was just balancing whether I should run for it,</span>
   <span id="f000649">or whether I should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street.</span>
   <span id="f000650">The driver looked twice at such a shabby fare,</span>
   <span id="f000651">but I jumped in before he could object.</span>
   <span id="f000652">’The Church of St.&#160;Monica,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000653">’and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.’ It was twenty-five minutes to twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000654">and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">My cabby drove fast.</span>
   <span id="f000656">I don’t think I ever drove faster,</span>
   <span id="f000657">but the others were there before us.</span>
   <span id="f000658">The cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000659">I paid the man and hurried into the church.</span>
   <span id="f000660">There was not a soul there save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman,</span>
   <span id="f000661">who seemed to be expostulating with them.</span>
   <span id="f000662">They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar.</span>
   <span id="f000663">I lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church.</span>
   <span id="f000664">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000665">to my surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000666">the three at the altar faced round to me,</span>
   <span id="f000667">and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">’Thank God,’ he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000669">’You’ll do.</span>
   <span id="f000670">Come!</span>
   <span id="f000671">Come!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">’What then?’ I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">’Come,</span>
   <span id="f000674">man,</span>
   <span id="f000675">come,</span>
   <span id="f000676">only three minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000677">or it won’t be legal.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">“I was half-dragged up to the altar,</span>
   <span id="f000679">and before I knew where I was I found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear,</span>
   <span id="f000680">and vouching for things of which I knew nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000681">and generally assisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler,</span>
   <span id="f000682">spinster,</span>
   <span id="f000683">to Godfrey Norton,</span>
   <span id="f000684">bachelor.</span>
   <span id="f000685">It was all done in an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other,</span>
   <span id="f000687">while the clergyman beamed on me in front.</span>
   <span id="f000688">It was the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my life,</span>
   <span id="f000689">and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now.</span>
   <span id="f000690">It seems that there had been some informality about their license,</span>
   <span id="f000691">that the clergyman absolutely refused to marry them without a witness of some sort,</span>
   <span id="f000692">and that my lucky appearance saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the streets in search of a best man.</span>
   <span id="f000693">The bride gave me a sovereign,</span>
   <span id="f000694">and I mean to wear it on my watch-chain in memory of the occasion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000695">“This is a very unexpected turn of affairs,” said I;</span>
   <span id="f000696">“and what then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000697">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000698">I found my plans very seriously menaced.</span>
   <span id="f000699">It looked as if the pair might take an immediate departure,</span>
   <span id="f000700">and so necessitate very prompt and energetic measures on my part.</span>
   <span id="f000701">At the church door,</span>
   <span id="f000702">however,</span>
   <span id="f000703">they separated,</span>
   <span id="f000704">he driving back to the Temple,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and she to her own house.</span>
   <span id="f000706">’I shall drive out in the park at five as usual,’ she said as she left him.</span>
   <span id="f000707">I heard no more.</span>
   <span id="f000708">They drove away in different directions,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and I went off to make my own arrangements.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">“Which are?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“Some cold beef and a glass of beer,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000712">ringing the bell.</span>
   <span id="f000713">“I have been too busy to think of food,</span>
   <span id="f000714">and I am likely to be busier still this evening.</span>
   <span id="f000715">By the way,</span>
   <span id="f000716">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000717">I shall want your co-operation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000718">“I shall be delighted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000719">“You don’t mind breaking the law?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000720">“Not in the least.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">“Nor running a chance of arrest?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000722">“Not in a good cause.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000724">the cause is excellent!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“Then I am your man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000726">“I was sure that I might rely on you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000727">“But what is it you wish?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">“When Mrs.&#160;Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to you.</span>
   <span id="f000729">Now,” he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided,</span>
   <span id="f000730">“I must discuss it while I eat,</span>
   <span id="f000731">for I have not much time.</span>
   <span id="f000732">It is nearly five now.</span>
   <span id="f000733">In two hours we must be on the scene of action.</span>
   <span id="f000734">Miss Irene,</span>
   <span id="f000735">or Madame,</span>
   <span id="f000736">rather,</span>
   <span id="f000737">returns from her drive at seven.</span>
   <span id="f000738">We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">“And what then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“You must leave that to me.</span>
   <span id="f000741">I have already arranged what is to occur.</span>
   <span id="f000742">There is only one point on which I must insist.</span>
   <span id="f000743">You must not interfere,</span>
   <span id="f000744">come what may.</span>
   <span id="f000745">You understand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000746">“I am to be neutral?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000747">“To do nothing whatever.</span>
   <span id="f000748">There will probably be some small unpleasantness.</span>
   <span id="f000749">Do not join in it.</span>
   <span id="f000750">It will end in my being conveyed into the house.</span>
   <span id="f000751">Four or five minutes afterwards the sitting-room window will open.</span>
   <span id="f000752">You are to station yourself close to that open window.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“You are to watch me,</span>
   <span id="f000755">for I will be visible to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000756">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">“And when I raise my hand – so – you will throw into the room what I give you to throw,</span>
   <span id="f000758">and will,</span>
   <span id="f000759">at the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000760">raise the cry of fire.</span>
   <span id="f000761">You quite follow me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">“Entirely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000763">“It is nothing very formidable,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000764">taking a long cigar-shaped roll from his pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000765">“It is an ordinary plumber’s smoke-rocket,</span>
   <span id="f000766">fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting.</span>
   <span id="f000767">Your task is confined to that.</span>
   <span id="f000768">When you raise your cry of fire,</span>
   <span id="f000769">it will be taken up by quite a number of people.</span>
   <span id="f000770">You may then walk to the end of the street,</span>
   <span id="f000771">and I will rejoin you in ten minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000772">I hope that I have made myself clear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000773">“I am to remain neutral,</span>
   <span id="f000774">to get near the window,</span>
   <span id="f000775">to watch you,</span>
   <span id="f000776">and at the signal to throw in this object,</span>
   <span id="f000777">then to raise the cry of fire,</span>
   <span id="f000778">and to wait you at the corner of the street.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">“Precisely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000780">“Then you may entirely rely on me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000781">“That is excellent.</span>
   <span id="f000782">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000783">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000784">it is almost time that I prepare for the new role I have to play.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman.</span>
   <span id="f000786">His broad black hat,</span>
   <span id="f000787">his baggy trousers,</span>
   <span id="f000788">his white tie,</span>
   <span id="f000789">his sympathetic smile,</span>
   <span id="f000790">and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as Mr.&#160;John Hare alone could have equalled.</span>
   <span id="f000791">It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume.</span>
   <span id="f000792">His expression,</span>
   <span id="f000793">his manner,</span>
   <span id="f000794">his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed.</span>
   <span id="f000795">The stage lost a fine actor,</span>
   <span id="f000796">even as science lost an acute reasoner,</span>
   <span id="f000797">when he became a specialist in crime.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000798">It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street,</span>
   <span id="f000799">and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in Serpentine Avenue.</span>
   <span id="f000800">It was already dusk,</span>
   <span id="f000801">and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge,</span>
   <span id="f000802">waiting for the coming of its occupant.</span>
   <span id="f000803">The house was just such as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes’ succinct description,</span>
   <span id="f000804">but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected.</span>
   <span id="f000805">On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000806">for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood,</span>
   <span id="f000807">it was remarkably animated.</span>
   <span id="f000808">There was a group of shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner,</span>
   <span id="f000809">a scissors-grinder with his wheel,</span>
   <span id="f000810">two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl,</span>
   <span id="f000811">and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with cigars in their mouths.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000812">“You see,” remarked Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000813">as we paced to and fro in front of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000814">“this marriage rather simplifies matters.</span>
   <span id="f000815">The photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now.</span>
   <span id="f000816">The chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr.&#160;Godfrey Norton,</span>
   <span id="f000817">as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess.</span>
   <span id="f000818">Now the question is,</span>
   <span id="f000819">Where are we to find the photograph?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">“Where,</span>
   <span id="f000821">indeed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">“It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her.</span>
   <span id="f000823">It is cabinet size.</span>
   <span id="f000824">Too large for easy concealment about a woman’s dress.</span>
   <span id="f000825">She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched.</span>
   <span id="f000826">Two attempts of the sort have already been made.</span>
   <span id="f000827">We may take it,</span>
   <span id="f000828">then,</span>
   <span id="f000829">that she does not carry it about with her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">“Where,</span>
   <span id="f000831">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000832">“Her banker or her lawyer.</span>
   <span id="f000833">There is that double possibility.</span>
   <span id="f000834">But I am inclined to think neither.</span>
   <span id="f000835">Women are naturally secretive,</span>
   <span id="f000836">and they like to do their own secreting.</span>
   <span id="f000837">Why should she hand it over to anyone else?</span>
   <span id="f000838">She could trust her own guardianship,</span>
   <span id="f000839">but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man.</span>
   <span id="f000840">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000841">remember that she had resolved to use it within a few days.</span>
   <span id="f000842">It must be where she can lay her hands upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000843">It must be in her own house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000844">“But it has twice been burgled.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000845">“Pshaw!</span>
   <span id="f000846">They did not know how to look.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000847">“But how will you look?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000848">“I will not look.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000849">“What then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">“I will get her to show me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000851">“But she will refuse.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">“She will not be able to.</span>
   <span id="f000853">But I hear the rumble of wheels.</span>
   <span id="f000854">It is her carriage.</span>
   <span id="f000855">Now carry out my orders to the letter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000856">As he spoke the gleam of the side-lights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue.</span>
   <span id="f000857">It was a smart little landau which rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge.</span>
   <span id="f000858">As it pulled up,</span>
   <span id="f000859">one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper,</span>
   <span id="f000860">but was elbowed away by another loafer,</span>
   <span id="f000861">who had rushed up with the same intention.</span>
   <span id="f000862">A fierce quarrel broke out,</span>
   <span id="f000863">which was increased by the two guardsmen,</span>
   <span id="f000864">who took sides with one of the loungers,</span>
   <span id="f000865">and by the scissors-grinder,</span>
   <span id="f000866">who was equally hot upon the other side.</span>
   <span id="f000867">A blow was struck,</span>
   <span id="f000868">and in an instant the lady,</span>
   <span id="f000869">who had stepped from her carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000870">was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men,</span>
   <span id="f000871">who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks.</span>
   <span id="f000872">Holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady;</span>
   <span id="f000873">but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000874">with the blood running freely down his face.</span>
   <span id="f000875">At his fall the guardsmen took to their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other,</span>
   <span id="f000876">while a number of better-dressed people,</span>
   <span id="f000877">who had watched the scuffle without taking part in it,</span>
   <span id="f000878">crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man.</span>
   <span id="f000879">Irene Adler,</span>
   <span id="f000880">as I will still call her,</span>
   <span id="f000881">had hurried up the steps;</span>
   <span id="f000882">but she stood at the top with her superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000883">looking back into the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000884">“Is the poor gentleman much hurt?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000885">“He is dead,” cried several voices.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000887">no,</span>
   <span id="f000888">there’s life in him!” shouted another.</span>
   <span id="f000889">“But he’ll be gone before you can get him to hospital.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">“He’s a brave fellow,” said a woman.</span>
   <span id="f000891">“They would have had the lady’s purse and watch if it hadn’t been for him.</span>
   <span id="f000892">They were a gang,</span>
   <span id="f000893">and a rough one,</span>
   <span id="f000894">too.</span>
   <span id="f000895">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000896">he’s breathing now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000897">“He can’t lie in the street.</span>
   <span id="f000898">May we bring him in,</span>
   <span id="f000899">marm?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000900">“Surely.</span>
   <span id="f000901">Bring him into the sitting-room.</span>
   <span id="f000902">There is a comfortable sofa.</span>
   <span id="f000903">This way,</span>
   <span id="f000904">please!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the principal room,</span>
   <span id="f000906">while I still observed the proceedings from my post by the window.</span>
   <span id="f000907">The lamps had been lit,</span>
   <span id="f000908">but the blinds had not been drawn,</span>
   <span id="f000909">so that I could see Holmes as he lay upon the couch.</span>
   <span id="f000910">I do not know whether he was seized with compunction at that moment for the part he was playing,</span>
   <span id="f000911">but I know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was conspiring,</span>
   <span id="f000912">or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon the injured man.</span>
   <span id="f000913">And yet it would be the blackest treachery to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me.</span>
   <span id="f000914">I hardened my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000915">and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster.</span>
   <span id="f000916">After all,</span>
   <span id="f000917">I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000918">we are not injuring her.</span>
   <span id="f000919">We are but preventing her from injuring another.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000920">Holmes had sat up upon the couch,</span>
   <span id="f000921">and I saw him motion like a man who is in need of air.</span>
   <span id="f000922">A maid rushed across and threw open the window.</span>
   <span id="f000923">At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of “Fire!” The word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators,</span>
   <span id="f000924">well dressed and ill – gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000925">ostlers,</span>
   <span id="f000926">and servant-maids – joined in a general shriek of “Fire!” Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window.</span>
   <span id="f000927">I caught a glimpse of rushing figures,</span>
   <span id="f000928">and a moment later the voice of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm.</span>
   <span id="f000929">Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner of the street,</span>
   <span id="f000930">and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend’s arm in mine,</span>
   <span id="f000931">and to get away from the scene of uproar.</span>
   <span id="f000932">He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the Edgeware Road.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000933">“You did it very nicely,</span>
   <span id="f000934">Doctor,” he remarked.</span>
   <span id="f000935">“Nothing could have been better.</span>
   <span id="f000936">It is all right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">“You have the photograph?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000938">“I know where it is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">“And how did you find out?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000940">“She showed me,</span>
   <span id="f000941">as I told you she would.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">“I am still in the dark.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000943">“I do not wish to make a mystery,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000944">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000945">“The matter was perfectly simple.</span>
   <span id="f000946">You,</span>
   <span id="f000947">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000948">saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice.</span>
   <span id="f000949">They were all engaged for the evening.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">“I guessed as much.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000951">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000952">when the row broke out,</span>
   <span id="f000953">I had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand.</span>
   <span id="f000954">I rushed forward,</span>
   <span id="f000955">fell down,</span>
   <span id="f000956">clapped my hand to my face,</span>
   <span id="f000957">and became a piteous spectacle.</span>
   <span id="f000958">It is an old trick.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">“That also I could fathom.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000960">“Then they carried me in.</span>
   <span id="f000961">She was bound to have me in.</span>
   <span id="f000962">What else could she do?</span>
   <span id="f000963">And into her sitting-room,</span>
   <span id="f000964">which was the very room which I suspected.</span>
   <span id="f000965">It lay between that and her bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and I was determined to see which.</span>
   <span id="f000967">They laid me on a couch,</span>
   <span id="f000968">I motioned for air,</span>
   <span id="f000969">they were compelled to open the window,</span>
   <span id="f000970">and you had your chance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000971">“How did that help you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000972">“It was all-important.</span>
   <span id="f000973">When a woman thinks that her house is on fire,</span>
   <span id="f000974">her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most.</span>
   <span id="f000975">It is a perfectly overpowering impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000976">and I have more than once taken advantage of it.</span>
   <span id="f000977">In the case of the Darlington substitution scandal it was of use to me,</span>
   <span id="f000978">and also in the Arnsworth Castle business.</span>
   <span id="f000979">A married woman grabs at her baby;</span>
   <span id="f000980">an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box.</span>
   <span id="f000981">Now it was clear to me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of.</span>
   <span id="f000982">She would rush to secure it.</span>
   <span id="f000983">The alarm of fire was admirably done.</span>
   <span id="f000984">The smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel.</span>
   <span id="f000985">She responded beautifully.</span>
   <span id="f000986">The photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right bell-pull.</span>
   <span id="f000987">She was there in an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000988">and I caught a glimpse of it as she half-drew it out.</span>
   <span id="f000989">When I cried out that it was a false alarm,</span>
   <span id="f000990">she replaced it,</span>
   <span id="f000991">glanced at the rocket,</span>
   <span id="f000992">rushed from the room,</span>
   <span id="f000993">and I have not seen her since.</span>
   <span id="f000994">I rose,</span>
   <span id="f000995">and,</span>
   <span id="f000996">making my excuses,</span>
   <span id="f000997">escaped from the house.</span>
   <span id="f000998">I hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once;</span>
   <span id="f000999">but the coachman had come in,</span>
   <span id="f001000">and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to wait.</span>
   <span id="f001001">A little over-precipitance may ruin all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001002">“And now?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001003">“Our quest is practically finished.</span>
   <span id="f001004">I shall call with the King to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f001005">and with you,</span>
   <span id="f001006">if you care to come with us.</span>
   <span id="f001007">We will be shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady,</span>
   <span id="f001008">but it is probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the photograph.</span>
   <span id="f001009">It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001010">“And when will you call?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001011">“At eight in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f001012">She will not be up,</span>
   <span id="f001013">so that we shall have a clear field.</span>
   <span id="f001014">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f001015">we must be prompt,</span>
   <span id="f001016">for this marriage may mean a complete change in her life and habits.</span>
   <span id="f001017">I must wire to the King without delay.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001018">We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door.</span>
   <span id="f001019">He was searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001020">“Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f001021">Mister Sherlock Holmes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001022">There were several people on the pavement at the time,</span>
   <span id="f001023">but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001024">“I’ve heard that voice before,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001025">staring down the dimly lit street.</span>
   <span id="f001026">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f001027">I wonder who the deuce that could have been.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f001028">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f001029">I slept at Baker Street that night,</span>
   <span id="f001030">and we were engaged upon our toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001031">“You have really got it!” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f001032">grasping Sherlock Holmes by either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001033">“Not yet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001034">“But you have hopes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001035">“I have hopes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001036">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f001037">come.</span>
   <span id="f001038">I am all impatience to be gone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001039">“We must have a cab.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001040">“No,</span>
   <span id="f001041">my brougham is waiting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001042">“Then that will simplify matters.” We descended and started off once more for Briony Lodge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001043">“Irene Adler is married,” remarked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001044">“Married!</span>
   <span id="f001045">When?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001046">“Yesterday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001047">“But to whom?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001048">“To an English lawyer named Norton.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001049">“But she could not love him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001050">“I am in hopes that she does.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001051">“And why in hopes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001052">“Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future annoyance.</span>
   <span id="f001053">If the lady loves her husband,</span>
   <span id="f001054">she does not love your Majesty.</span>
   <span id="f001055">If she does not love your Majesty,</span>
   <span id="f001056">there is no reason why she should interfere with your Majesty’s plan.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001057">“It is true.</span>
   <span id="f001058">And yet – Well!</span>
   <span id="f001059">I wish she had been of my own station!</span>
   <span id="f001060">What a queen she would have made!” He relapsed into a moody silence,</span>
   <span id="f001061">which was not broken until we drew up in Serpentine Avenue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001062">The door of Briony Lodge was open,</span>
   <span id="f001063">and an elderly woman stood upon the steps.</span>
   <span id="f001064">She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped from the brougham.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001065">“Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001066">I believe?” said she.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001067">“I am Mr.&#160;Holmes,” answered my companion,</span>
   <span id="f001068">looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001069">“Indeed!</span>
   <span id="f001070">My mistress told me that you were likely to call.</span>
   <span id="f001071">She left this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for the Continent.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001072">“What!” Sherlock Holmes staggered back,</span>
   <span id="f001073">white with chagrin and surprise.</span>
   <span id="f001074">“Do you mean that she has left England?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001075">“Never to return.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001076">“And the papers?” asked the King hoarsely.</span>
   <span id="f001077">“All is lost.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001078">“We shall see.” He pushed past the servant and rushed into the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f001079">followed by the King and myself.</span>
   <span id="f001080">The furniture was scattered about in every direction,</span>
   <span id="f001081">with dismantled shelves and open drawers,</span>
   <span id="f001082">as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before her flight.</span>
   <span id="f001083">Holmes rushed at the bell-pull,</span>
   <span id="f001084">tore back a small sliding shutter,</span>
   <span id="f001085">and,</span>
   <span id="f001086">plunging in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f001087">pulled out a photograph and a letter.</span>
   <span id="f001088">The photograph was of Irene Adler herself in evening dress,</span>
   <span id="f001089">the letter was superscribed to “Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001090">Esq.</span>
   <span id="f001091">To be left till called for.” My friend tore it open and we all three read it together.</span>
   <span id="f001092">It was dated at midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001093">MY DEAR MR.</span>
   <span id="f001094">SHERLOCK HOLMES,</span>
   <span id="f001095">– You really did it very well.</span>
   <span id="f001096">You took me in completely.</span>
   <span id="f001097">Until after the alarm of fire,</span>
   <span id="f001098">I had not a suspicion.</span>
   <span id="f001099">But then,</span>
   <span id="f001100">when I found how I had betrayed myself,</span>
   <span id="f001101">I began to think.</span>
   <span id="f001102">I had been warned against you months ago.</span>
   <span id="f001103">I had been told that if the King employed an agent it would certainly be you.</span>
   <span id="f001104">And your address had been given me.</span>
   <span id="f001105">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f001106">with all this,</span>
   <span id="f001107">you made me reveal what you wanted to know.</span>
   <span id="f001108">Even after I became suspicious,</span>
   <span id="f001109">I found it hard to think evil of such a dear,</span>
   <span id="f001110">kind old clergyman.</span>
   <span id="f001111">But,</span>
   <span id="f001112">you know,</span>
   <span id="f001113">I have been trained as an actress myself.</span>
   <span id="f001114">Male costume is nothing new to me.</span>
   <span id="f001115">I often take advantage of the freedom which it gives.</span>
   <span id="f001116">I sent John,</span>
   <span id="f001117">the coachman,</span>
   <span id="f001118">to watch you,</span>
   <span id="f001119">ran up stairs,</span>
   <span id="f001120">got into my walking-clothes,</span>
   <span id="f001121">as I call them,</span>
   <span id="f001122">and came down just as you departed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001123">Well,</span>
   <span id="f001124">I followed you to your door,</span>
   <span id="f001125">and so made sure that I was really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f001126">Then I,</span>
   <span id="f001127">rather imprudently,</span>
   <span id="f001128">wished you good-night,</span>
   <span id="f001129">and started for the Temple to see my husband.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001130">We both thought the best resource was flight,</span>
   <span id="f001131">when pursued by so formidable an antagonist;</span>
   <span id="f001132">so you will find the nest empty when you call to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f001133">As to the photograph,</span>
   <span id="f001134">your client may rest in peace.</span>
   <span id="f001135">I love and am loved by a better man than he.</span>
   <span id="f001136">The King may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged.</span>
   <span id="f001137">I keep it only to safeguard myself,</span>
   <span id="f001138">and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future.</span>
   <span id="f001139">I leave a photograph which he might care to possess;</span>
   <span id="f001140">and I remain,</span>
   <span id="f001141">dear Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001142">Very truly yours,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001143">“IRENE NORTON,</span>
   <span id="f001144">née ADLER.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001145">“What a woman – oh,</span>
   <span id="f001146">what a woman!” cried the King of Bohemia,</span>
   <span id="f001147">when we had all three read this epistle.</span>
   <span id="f001148">“Did I not tell you how quick and resolute she was?</span>
   <span id="f001149">Would she not have made an admirable queen?</span>
   <span id="f001150">Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001151">“From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your Majesty,” said Holmes coldly.</span>
   <span id="f001152">“I am sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majesty’s business to a more successful conclusion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001153">“On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f001154">my dear sir,” cried the King;</span>
   <span id="f001155">“nothing could be more successful.</span>
   <span id="f001156">I know that her word is inviolate.</span>
   <span id="f001157">The photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001158">“I am glad to hear your Majesty say so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001159">“I am immensely indebted to you.</span>
   <span id="f001160">Pray tell me in what way I can reward you.</span>
   <span id="f001161">This ring – ” He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001162">“Your Majesty has something which I should value even more highly,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001163">“You have but to name it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001164">“This photograph!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001165">The King stared at him in amazement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001166">“Irene’s photograph!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f001167">“Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f001168">if you wish it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001169">“I thank your Majesty.</span>
   <span id="f001170">Then there is no more to be done in the matter.</span>
   <span id="f001171">I have the honour to wish you a very good-morning.” He bowed,</span>
   <span id="f001172">and,</span>
   <span id="f001173">turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched out to him,</span>
   <span id="f001174">he set off in my company for his chambers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001175">And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of Bohemia,</span>
   <span id="f001176">and how the best plans of Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a woman’s wit.</span>
   <span id="f001177">He used to make merry over the cleverness of women,</span>
   <span id="f001178">but I have not heard him do it of late.</span>
   <span id="f001179">And when he speaks of Irene Adler,</span>
   <span id="f001180">or when he refers to her photograph,</span>
   <span id="f001181">it is always under the honourable title of the woman.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

