<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />James K. White</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000004">The Lighting-Rod Man</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000005">by<br />Herman Melville</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000006">What grand irregular thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000007">thought I,</span>
   <span id="f000008">standing on my hearth-stone among the Acroceraunian hills,</span>
   <span id="f000009">as the scattered bolts boomed overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and crashed down among the valleys,</span>
   <span id="f000011">every bolt followed by zigzag irradiations,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and swift slants of sharp rain,</span>
   <span id="f000013">which audibly rang,</span>
   <span id="f000014">like a charge of spear-points,</span>
   <span id="f000015">on my low shingled roof.</span>
   <span id="f000016">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000017">though,</span>
   <span id="f000018">that the mountains hereabouts break and churn up the thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000019">so that it is far more glorious here than on the plain.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000021">– someone at the door.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Who is this that chooses a time of thunder for making calls?</span>
   <span id="f000023">And why don’t he,</span>
   <span id="f000024">man-fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000025">use the knocker,</span>
   <span id="f000026">instead of making that doleful undertaker’s clatter with his fist against the hollow panel?</span>
   <span id="f000027">But let him in.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000029">here he comes.</span>
   <span id="f000030">“Good day,</span>
   <span id="f000031">sir:” an entire stranger.</span>
   <span id="f000032">“Pray be seated.” What is that strange-looking walking-stick he carries:</span>
   <span id="f000033">“A fine thunder-storm,</span>
   <span id="f000034">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">“Fine?</span>
   <span id="f000036">– Awful!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">“You are wet.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Stand here on the hearth before the fire.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“Not for worlds!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">The stranger still stood in the exact middle of the cottage,</span>
   <span id="f000041">where he had first planted himself.</span>
   <span id="f000042">His singularity impelled a closer scrutiny.</span>
   <span id="f000043">A lean,</span>
   <span id="f000044">gloomy figure.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Hair dark and lank,</span>
   <span id="f000046">mattedly streaked over his brow.</span>
   <span id="f000047">His sunken pitfalls of eyes were ringed by indigo halos,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and played with an innocuous sort of lightning:</span>
   <span id="f000049">the gleam without the bolt.</span>
   <span id="f000050">The whole man was dripping.</span>
   <span id="f000051">He stood in a puddle on the bare oak floor:</span>
   <span id="f000052">his strange walking-stick vertically resting at his side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">It was a polished copper rod,</span>
   <span id="f000054">four feet long,</span>
   <span id="f000055">lengthwise attached to a neat wooden staff,</span>
   <span id="f000056">by insertion into two balls of greenish glass,</span>
   <span id="f000057">ringed with copper bands.</span>
   <span id="f000058">The metal rod terminated at the top tripodwise,</span>
   <span id="f000059">in three keen tines,</span>
   <span id="f000060">brightly gilt.</span>
   <span id="f000061">He held the thing by the wooden part alone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“Sir,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000063">bowing politely,</span>
   <span id="f000064">“have I the honor of a visit from that illustrious god,</span>
   <span id="f000065">Jupiter Tonans?</span>
   <span id="f000066">So stood he in the Greek statue of old,</span>
   <span id="f000067">grasping the lightning-bolt.</span>
   <span id="f000068">If you be he,</span>
   <span id="f000069">or his viceroy,</span>
   <span id="f000070">I have to thank you for this noble storm you have brewed among our mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Listen:</span>
   <span id="f000072">That was a glorious peal.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000074">to a lover of the majestic,</span>
   <span id="f000075">it is a good thing to have the Thunderer himself in one’s cottage.</span>
   <span id="f000076">The thunder grows finer for that.</span>
   <span id="f000077">But pray be seated.</span>
   <span id="f000078">This old rush-bottomed arm-chair,</span>
   <span id="f000079">I grant,</span>
   <span id="f000080">is a poor substitute for your evergreen throne on Olympus;</span>
   <span id="f000081">but,</span>
   <span id="f000082">condescend to be seated.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">While I thus pleasantly spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000084">the stranger eyed me,</span>
   <span id="f000085">half in wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and half in a strange sort of horror;</span>
   <span id="f000087">but did not move a foot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“Do,</span>
   <span id="f000089">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000090">be seated;</span>
   <span id="f000091">you need to be dried ere going forth again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">I planted the chair invitingly on the broad hearth,</span>
   <span id="f000093">where a little fire had been kindled that afternoon to dissipate the dampness,</span>
   <span id="f000094">not the cold;</span>
   <span id="f000095">for it was early in the month of September.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">But without heeding my solicitation,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and still standing in the middle of the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000098">the stranger gazed at me portentously and spoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“Sir,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000100">“excuse me;</span>
   <span id="f000101">but instead of my accepting your invitation to be seated on the hearth there,</span>
   <span id="f000102">I solemnly warn <em>you</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000103">that you had best accept <em>mine</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and stand with me in the middle of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Good heavens!” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000106">starting – “there is another of those awful crashes.</span>
   <span id="f000107">I warn you,</span>
   <span id="f000108">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000109">quit the hearth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Mr.&#160;Jupiter Tonans,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000111">quietly rolling my body on the stone,</span>
   <span id="f000112">“I stand very well here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“Are you so horridly ignorant,</span>
   <span id="f000114">then,” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000115">“as not to know,</span>
   <span id="f000116">that by far the most dangerous part of a house,</span>
   <span id="f000117">during such a terrific tempest as this,</span>
   <span id="f000118">is the fire-place?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000120">I did not know that,” involuntarily stepping upon the first board next to the stone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">The stranger now assumed such an unpleasant air of successful admonition,</span>
   <span id="f000122">that – quite involuntarily again – I stepped back upon the hearth,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and threw myself into the erectest,</span>
   <span id="f000124">proudest posture I could command.</span>
   <span id="f000125">But I said nothing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“For Heaven’s sake,” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000127">with a strange mixture of alarm and intimidation – “for Heaven’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000128">get off the hearth!</span>
   <span id="f000129">Know you not,</span>
   <span id="f000130">that the heated air and soot are conductors;</span>
   <span id="f000131">– to say nothing of those immense iron fire-dogs?</span>
   <span id="f000132">Quit the spot – I conjure – I command you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Mr.&#160;Jupiter Tonans,</span>
   <span id="f000134">I am not accustomed to be commanded in my own house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“Call me not by that pagan name.</span>
   <span id="f000136">You are profane in this time of terror.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000138">will you be so good as to tell me your business?</span>
   <span id="f000139">If you seek shelter from the storm,</span>
   <span id="f000140">you are welcome,</span>
   <span id="f000141">so long as you be civil;</span>
   <span id="f000142">but if you come on business,</span>
   <span id="f000143">open it forthwith.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Who are you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">“I am a dealer in lightning-rods,” said the stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000146">softening his tone;</span>
   <span id="f000147">“my special business is – Merciful heaven!</span>
   <span id="f000148">what a crash!</span>
   <span id="f000149">– Have you ever been struck – your premises,</span>
   <span id="f000150">I mean?</span>
   <span id="f000151">No?</span>
   <span id="f000152">It’s best to be provided;” – significantly rattling his metallic staff on the floor;</span>
   <span id="f000153">– “by nature,</span>
   <span id="f000154">there are no castles in thunder-storms;</span>
   <span id="f000155">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000156">say but the word,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and of this cottage I can make a Gibraltar by a few waves of this wand.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Hark,</span>
   <span id="f000159">what Himalayas of concussions!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“You interrupted yourself;</span>
   <span id="f000161">your special business you were about to speak of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“My special business is to travel the country for orders for lightning-rods.</span>
   <span id="f000163">This is my specimen-rod;” tapping his staff;</span>
   <span id="f000164">“I have the best of references” – fumbling in his pockets.</span>
   <span id="f000165">“In Criggan last month,</span>
   <span id="f000166">I put up three-and-twenty rods on only five buildings.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“Let me see.</span>
   <span id="f000168">Was it not at Criggan last week,</span>
   <span id="f000169">about midnight on Saturday,</span>
   <span id="f000170">that the steeple,</span>
   <span id="f000171">the big elm,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and the assembly-room cupola were struck?</span>
   <span id="f000173">Any of your rods there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“Not on the tree and cupola,</span>
   <span id="f000175">but the steeple.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“Of what use is your rod,</span>
   <span id="f000177">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“Of life-and-death use.</span>
   <span id="f000179">But my workman was heedless.</span>
   <span id="f000180">In fitting the rod at top to the steeple,</span>
   <span id="f000181">he allowed a part of the metal to graze the tin sheeting.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Hence the accident.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Not my fault,</span>
   <span id="f000184">but his.</span>
   <span id="f000185">Hark!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“Never mind.</span>
   <span id="f000187">That clap burst quite loud enough to be heard without finger-pointing.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Did you hear of the event at Montreal last year?</span>
   <span id="f000189">A servant girl struck at her bed-side with a rosary in her hand;</span>
   <span id="f000190">the beads being metal.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Does your beat extend into the Canadas?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000193">And I hear that there,</span>
   <span id="f000194">iron rods only are in use.</span>
   <span id="f000195">They should have <em>mine</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000196">which are copper.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Iron is easily fused.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Then they draw out the rod so slender,</span>
   <span id="f000199">that it has not body enough to conduct the full electric current.</span>
   <span id="f000200">The metal melts;</span>
   <span id="f000201">the building is destroyed.</span>
   <span id="f000202">My copper rods never act so.</span>
   <span id="f000203">Those Canadians are fools.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Some of them knob the rod at the top,</span>
   <span id="f000205">which risks a deadly explosion,</span>
   <span id="f000206">instead of imperceptibly carrying down the current into the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000207">as this sort of rod does.</span>
   <span id="f000208"><em>Mine</em> is the only true rod.</span>
   <span id="f000209">Look at it.</span>
   <span id="f000210">Only one dollar a foot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“This abuse of your own calling in another might make one distrustful with respect to yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000213">The thunder becomes less muttering.</span>
   <span id="f000214">It is nearing us,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and nearing the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000216">too.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000218">One crammed crash!</span>
   <span id="f000219">All the vibrations made one by nearness.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Another flash.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Hold!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“What do you?” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000223">seeing him now,</span>
   <span id="f000224">instantaneously relinquishing his staff,</span>
   <span id="f000225">lean intently forward towards the window,</span>
   <span id="f000226">with his right fore and middle fingers on his left wrist.</span>
   <span id="f000227">But ere the words had well escaped me,</span>
   <span id="f000228">another exclamation escaped him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">Crash!</span>
   <span id="f000230">only three pulses – less than a third of a mile off – yonder,</span>
   <span id="f000231">somewhere in that wood.</span>
   <span id="f000232">I passed three stricken oaks there,</span>
   <span id="f000233">ripped out new and glittering.</span>
   <span id="f000234">The oak draws lightning more than other timber,</span>
   <span id="f000235">having iron in solution in its sap.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Your floor here seems oak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“Heart-of-oak.</span>
   <span id="f000238">From the peculiar time of your call upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000239">I suppose you purposely select stormy weather for your journeys.</span>
   <span id="f000240">When the thunder is roaring,</span>
   <span id="f000241">you deem it an hour peculiarly favorable for producing impressions favorable to your trade.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000243">– Awful!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“For one who would arm others with fear you seem unbeseemingly timorous yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Common men choose fair weather for their travels:</span>
   <span id="f000246">you choose thunder-storms;</span>
   <span id="f000247">and yet – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“That I travel in thunder-storms,</span>
   <span id="f000249">I grant;</span>
   <span id="f000250">but not without particular precautions,</span>
   <span id="f000251">such as only a lightning-rod man may know.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000253">Quick – look at my specimen rod.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Only one dollar a foot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“A very fine rod,</span>
   <span id="f000256">I dare say.</span>
   <span id="f000257">But what are these particular precautions of yours?</span>
   <span id="f000258">Yet first let me close yonder shutters;</span>
   <span id="f000259">the slanting rain is beating through the sash.</span>
   <span id="f000260">I will bar up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“Are you mad?</span>
   <span id="f000262">Know you not that yon iron bar is a swift conductor?</span>
   <span id="f000263">Desist.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">I will simply close the shutters,</span>
   <span id="f000265">then,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and call my boy to bring me a wooden bar.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Pray,</span>
   <span id="f000268">touch the bell-pull there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Are you frantic?</span>
   <span id="f000270">That bell-wire might blast you.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Never touch bell-wire in a thunder-storm,</span>
   <span id="f000272">nor ring a bell of any sort.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“Nor those in belfries?</span>
   <span id="f000274">Pray,</span>
   <span id="f000275">will you tell me where and how one may be safe in a time like this?</span>
   <span id="f000276">Is there any part of my house I may touch with hopes of my life?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“There is;</span>
   <span id="f000278">but not where you now stand.</span>
   <span id="f000279">Come away from the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000280">The current will sometimes run down a wall,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and – a man being a better conductor than a wall – it would leave the wall and run into him.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Swoop!</span>
   <span id="f000283"><em>That</em> must have fallen very nigh.</span>
   <span id="f000284">That must have been globular lightning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">Very probably.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Tell me at once,</span>
   <span id="f000287">which is,</span>
   <span id="f000288">in your opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000289">the safest part of this house?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“This room,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and this one spot in it where I stand.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Come hither.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“The reasons first.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000295">– after the flash the gust – the sashes shiver – the house,</span>
   <span id="f000296">the house!</span>
   <span id="f000297">– Come hither to me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“The reasons,</span>
   <span id="f000299">if you please.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“Come hither to me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“Thank you again,</span>
   <span id="f000302">I think I will try my old stand – the hearth.</span>
   <span id="f000303">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000304">Mr.&#160;Lightning-rod-man,</span>
   <span id="f000305">in the pauses of the thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000306">be so good as to tell me your reasons for esteeming this one room of the house the safest,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and your own one stand-point there the safest spot in it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">There was now a little cessation of the storm for a while.</span>
   <span id="f000309">The Lightning-rod man seemed relieved,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and replied:</span>
   <span id="f000311">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“Your house is a one-storied house,</span>
   <span id="f000313">with an attic and a cellar;</span>
   <span id="f000314">this room is between.</span>
   <span id="f000315">Hence its comparative safety.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Because lightning sometimes passes from the clouds to the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and sometimes from the earth to the clouds.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Do you comprehend?</span>
   <span id="f000319">– and I choose the middle of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000320">because if the lightning should strike the house at all,</span>
   <span id="f000321">it would come down the chimney or walls;</span>
   <span id="f000322">so,</span>
   <span id="f000323">obviously,</span>
   <span id="f000324">the further you are from them,</span>
   <span id="f000325">the better.</span>
   <span id="f000326">Come hither to me,</span>
   <span id="f000327">now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“Presently.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Something you just said,</span>
   <span id="f000330">instead of alarming me,</span>
   <span id="f000331">has strangely inspired confidence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“What have I said?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“You said that sometimes lightning flashes from the earth to the clouds.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Aye,</span>
   <span id="f000335">the returning-stroke,</span>
   <span id="f000336">as it is called;</span>
   <span id="f000337">when the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000338">being overcharged with the fluid,</span>
   <span id="f000339">flashes its surplus upward.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">“The returning-stroke;</span>
   <span id="f000341">that is,</span>
   <span id="f000342">from earth to sky.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Better and better.</span>
   <span id="f000344">But come here on the hearth and dry yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“I am better here,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and better wet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">“How?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“It is the safest thing you can do – Hark,</span>
   <span id="f000349">again!</span>
   <span id="f000350">– to get yourself thoroughly drenched in a thunder-storm.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Wet clothes are better conductors than the body;</span>
   <span id="f000352">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000353">if the lightning strike,</span>
   <span id="f000354">it might pass down the wet clothes without touching the body.</span>
   <span id="f000355">The storm deepens again.</span>
   <span id="f000356">Have you a rug in the house?</span>
   <span id="f000357">Rugs are non-conductors.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Get one,</span>
   <span id="f000359">that I may stand on it here,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and you,</span>
   <span id="f000361">too.</span>
   <span id="f000362">The skies blacken – it is dusk at noon.</span>
   <span id="f000363">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000364">– the rug,</span>
   <span id="f000365">the rug!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">I gave him one;</span>
   <span id="f000367">while the hooded mountains seemed closing and tumbling into the cottage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“And now,</span>
   <span id="f000369">since our being dumb will not help us,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000370">resuming my place,</span>
   <span id="f000371">“let me hear your precautions in traveling during thunder-storms.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">“Wait till this one is passed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000374">proceed with the precautions.</span>
   <span id="f000375">You stand in the safest possible place according to your own account.</span>
   <span id="f000376">Go on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“Briefly,</span>
   <span id="f000378">then.</span>
   <span id="f000379">I avoid pine-trees,</span>
   <span id="f000380">high houses,</span>
   <span id="f000381">lonely barns,</span>
   <span id="f000382">upland pastures,</span>
   <span id="f000383">running water,</span>
   <span id="f000384">flocks of cattle and sheep,</span>
   <span id="f000385">a crowd of men.</span>
   <span id="f000386">If I travel on foot – as to-day – I do not walk fast;</span>
   <span id="f000387">if in my buggy,</span>
   <span id="f000388">I touch not its back or sides;</span>
   <span id="f000389">if on horseback,</span>
   <span id="f000390">I dismount and lead the horse.</span>
   <span id="f000391">But of all things,</span>
   <span id="f000392">I avoid tall men.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“Do I dream?</span>
   <span id="f000394">Man avoid man?</span>
   <span id="f000395">and in danger-time,</span>
   <span id="f000396">too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“Tall men in a thunder-storm I avoid.</span>
   <span id="f000398">Are you so grossly ignorant as not to know,</span>
   <span id="f000399">that the height of a six-footer is sufficient to discharge an electric cloud upon him?</span>
   <span id="f000400">Are not lonely Kentuckians,</span>
   <span id="f000401">ploughing,</span>
   <span id="f000402">smit in the unfinished furrow?</span>
   <span id="f000403">Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000404">if the six-footer stand by running water,</span>
   <span id="f000405">the cloud will sometimes <em>select</em> him as its conductor to that running water.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000407">Sure,</span>
   <span id="f000408">yon black pinnacle is split.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000410">a man is a good conductor.</span>
   <span id="f000411">The lightning goes through and through a man,</span>
   <span id="f000412">but only peels a tree.</span>
   <span id="f000413">But sir,</span>
   <span id="f000414">you have kept me so long answering your questions,</span>
   <span id="f000415">that I have not yet come to business.</span>
   <span id="f000416">Will you order one of my rods?</span>
   <span id="f000417">Look at this specimen one?</span>
   <span id="f000418">See:</span>
   <span id="f000419">it is of the best of copper.</span>
   <span id="f000420">Copper’s the best conductor.</span>
   <span id="f000421">Your house is low;</span>
   <span id="f000422">but being upon the mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000423">that lowness does not one whit depress it.</span>
   <span id="f000424">You mountaineers are most exposed.</span>
   <span id="f000425">In mountainous countries the lightning-rod man should have most business.</span>
   <span id="f000426">Look at the specimen,</span>
   <span id="f000427">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000428">One rod will answer for a house so small as this.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Look over these recommendations.</span>
   <span id="f000430">Only one rod,</span>
   <span id="f000431">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000432">cost,</span>
   <span id="f000433">only twenty dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000435">There go all the granite Taconics and Hoosics dashed together like pebbles.</span>
   <span id="f000436">By the sound,</span>
   <span id="f000437">that must have struck something.</span>
   <span id="f000438">An elevation of five feet above the house,</span>
   <span id="f000439">will protect twenty feet radius all about the rod.</span>
   <span id="f000440">Only twenty dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000441">sir – a dollar a foot.</span>
   <span id="f000442">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000443">– Dreadful!</span>
   <span id="f000444">– Will you order?</span>
   <span id="f000445">Will you buy?</span>
   <span id="f000446">Shall I put down your name?</span>
   <span id="f000447">Think of being a heap of charred offal,</span>
   <span id="f000448">like a haltered horse burnt in his stall;</span>
   <span id="f000449">and all in one flash!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">“You pretended envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to and from Jupiter Tonans,” laughed I;</span>
   <span id="f000451">“you mere man who come here to put you and your pipestem between clay and sky,</span>
   <span id="f000452">do you think that because you can strike a bit of green light from the Leyden jar,</span>
   <span id="f000453">that you can thoroughly avert the supernal bolt?</span>
   <span id="f000454">Your rod rusts,</span>
   <span id="f000455">or breaks,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and where are you?</span>
   <span id="f000457">Who has empowered you,</span>
   <span id="f000458">you Tetzel,</span>
   <span id="f000459">to peddle round your indulgences from divine ordinations?</span>
   <span id="f000460">The hairs of our heads are numbered,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and the days of our lives.</span>
   <span id="f000462">In thunder as in sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000463">I stand at ease in the hands of my God.</span>
   <span id="f000464">False negotiator,</span>
   <span id="f000465">away!</span>
   <span id="f000466">See,</span>
   <span id="f000467">the scroll of the storm is rolled back;</span>
   <span id="f000468">the house is unharmed;</span>
   <span id="f000469">and in the blue heavens I read in the rainbow,</span>
   <span id="f000470">that the Deity will not,</span>
   <span id="f000471">of purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000472">make war on man’s earth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“Impious wretch!” foamed the stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000474">blackening in the face as the rainbow beamed,</span>
   <span id="f000475">“I will publish your infidel notions.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">The scowl grew blacker on his face;</span>
   <span id="f000477">the indigo-circles enlarged round his eyes as the storm-rings round the midnight moon.</span>
   <span id="f000478">He sprang upon me;</span>
   <span id="f000479">his tri-forked thing at my heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">I seized it;</span>
   <span id="f000481">I snapped it;</span>
   <span id="f000482">I dashed it;</span>
   <span id="f000483">I trod it;</span>
   <span id="f000484">and dragging the dark lightning-king out of my door,</span>
   <span id="f000485">flung his elbowed,</span>
   <span id="f000486">copper sceptre after him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">But spite of my treatment,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and spite of my dissuasive talk of him to my neighbors,</span>
   <span id="f000489">the Lightning-rod man still dwells in the land;</span>
   <span id="f000490">still travels in storm-time,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and drives a brave trade with the fears of man.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

