<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">My Red Cap</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part I</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000003">“He who serves well need not fear to ask his wages.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000004">It was under a blue cap that I first saw the honest face of Joe Collins.</span>
   <span id="f000005">In the third year of the late war a Maine regiment was passing through Boston,</span>
   <span id="f000006">on its way to Washington.</span>
   <span id="f000007">The Common was all alive with troops and the spectators who clustered round them to say God-speed,</span>
   <span id="f000008">as the brave fellows marched away to meet danger and death for our sakes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000009">Every one was eager to do something;</span>
   <span id="f000010">and,</span>
   <span id="f000011">as the men stood at ease,</span>
   <span id="f000012">the people mingled freely with them,</span>
   <span id="f000013">offering gifts,</span>
   <span id="f000014">hearty grips of the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and hopeful prophecies of victory in the end.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Irresistibly attracted,</span>
   <span id="f000017">my boy Tom and I drew near,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and soon,</span>
   <span id="f000019">becoming excited by the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000020">ravaged the fruit-stands in our neighborhood for tokens of our regard,</span>
   <span id="f000021">mingling candy and congratulations,</span>
   <span id="f000022">peanuts and prayers,</span>
   <span id="f000023">apples and applause,</span>
   <span id="f000024">in one enthusiastic jumble.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">While Tom was off on his third raid,</span>
   <span id="f000026">my attention was attracted by a man who stood a little apart,</span>
   <span id="f000027">looking as if his thoughts were far away.</span>
   <span id="f000028">All the men were fine,</span>
   <span id="f000029">stalwart fellows,</span>
   <span id="f000030">as Maine men usually are;</span>
   <span id="f000031">but this one over-topped his comrades,</span>
   <span id="f000032">standing straight and tall as a Norway pine,</span>
   <span id="f000033">with a face full of the mingled shrewdness,</span>
   <span id="f000034">sobriety,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and self-possession of the typical New Englander.</span>
   <span id="f000036">I liked the look of him;</span>
   <span id="f000037">and,</span>
   <span id="f000038">seeing that he seemed solitary,</span>
   <span id="f000039">even in a crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000040">I offered him my last apple with a word of interest.</span>
   <span id="f000041">The keen blue eyes met mine gratefully,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and the apple began to vanish in vigorous bites as we talked;</span>
   <span id="f000043">for no one thought of ceremony at such a time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“Where are you from?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">“Woolidge,</span>
   <span id="f000046">ma’am.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“Are you glad to go?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“Wal,</span>
   <span id="f000049">there’s two sides to that question.</span>
   <span id="f000050">I calk’late to do my duty,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and do it hearty:</span>
   <span id="f000052">but it <em>is</em> rough on a feller leavin’ his folks,</span>
   <span id="f000053">for good,</span>
   <span id="f000054">maybe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">There was a sudden huskiness in the man’s voice that was not apple-skins,</span>
   <span id="f000056">though he tried to make believe that it was.</span>
   <span id="f000057">I knew a word about home would comfort him,</span>
   <span id="f000058">so I went on with my questions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“It is very hard.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Do you leave a family?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">“My old mother,</span>
   <span id="f000062">a sick brother,</span>
   <span id="f000063">– and Lucindy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">The last word was uttered in a tone of intense regret,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and his brown cheek reddened as he added hastily,</span>
   <span id="f000066">to hide some embarrassment.</span>
   <span id="f000067">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000069">Jim went last year,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and got pretty well used up;</span>
   <span id="f000071">so I felt as if I’d ought to take my turn now.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Mother was a regular old hero about it and I dropped everything,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and come off.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Lucindy didn’t think it was my duty;</span>
   <span id="f000075">and that made it awful hard,</span>
   <span id="f000076">I tell you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“Wives are less patriotic than mothers,” I began;</span>
   <span id="f000078">but he would not hear Lucindy blamed,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and said quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000080">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“She ain’t my wife yet,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but we calk’lated to be married in a month or so;</span>
   <span id="f000083">and it was wus for her than for me,</span>
   <span id="f000084">women lot so on not being disappointed.</span>
   <span id="f000085">I <em>couldn’t</em> shirk,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and here I be.</span>
   <span id="f000087">When I git to work,</span>
   <span id="f000088">I shall be all right:</span>
   <span id="f000089">the first wrench is the tryin’ part.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">Here he straightened his broad shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and turned his face toward the flags fluttering far in front,</span>
   <span id="f000092">as if no backward look should betray the longing of his heart for mother,</span>
   <span id="f000093">home,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and wife.</span>
   <span id="f000095">I liked that little glimpse of character;</span>
   <span id="f000096">and when Tom returned with empty hands,</span>
   <span id="f000097">reporting that every stall was exhausted,</span>
   <span id="f000098">I told him to find out what the man would like best,</span>
   <span id="f000099">then run across the street and get it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“I know without asking.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Give us your purse,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and I’ll make him as happy as a king,” said the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000103">laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000104">as he looked up admiringly at our tall friend,</span>
   <span id="f000105">who looked down on him with an elder-brotherly air pleasant to see.</span>
   <span id="f000106">While Tom was gone,</span>
   <span id="f000107">I found out Joe’s name and business,</span>
   <span id="f000108">promised to write and tell his mother how finely the regiment went off,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and was just expressing a hope that we might meet again,</span>
   <span id="f000110">for I too was going to the war as nurse,</span>
   <span id="f000111">when the order to “Fall in!” came rolling down the ranks,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and the talk was over.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Fearing Tom would miss our man in the confusion,</span>
   <span id="f000114">I kept my eye on him till the boy came rushing up with a packet of tobacco in one hand and a good supply of cigars in the other.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Not a romantic offering,</span>
   <span id="f000116">certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000117">but a very acceptable one,</span>
   <span id="f000118">as Joe’s face proved,</span>
   <span id="f000119">as we scrambled these treasures into his pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000120">all laughing at the flurry,</span>
   <span id="f000121">while less fortunate comrades helped us,</span>
   <span id="f000122">with an eye to a share of these fragrant luxuries by and by.</span>
   <span id="f000123">There was just time for this,</span>
   <span id="f000124">a hearty shake of the big hand,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and a grateful “Good-by,</span>
   <span id="f000126">ma’am;” then the word was given,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and they were off.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Bent on seeing the last of them,</span>
   <span id="f000129">Tom and I took a short cut,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and came out on the wide street down which so many troops marched that year;</span>
   <span id="f000131">and,</span>
   <span id="f000132">mounting some high steps,</span>
   <span id="f000133">we watched for our man,</span>
   <span id="f000134">as we already called him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">As the inspiring music,</span>
   <span id="f000136">the grand tramp,</span>
   <span id="f000137">drew near,</span>
   <span id="f000138">the old thrill went through the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000139">the old cheer broke out.</span>
   <span id="f000140">But it was a different scene now than in the first enthusiastic,</span>
   <span id="f000141">hopeful days.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Young men and ardent boys filled the ranks then,</span>
   <span id="f000143">brave by instinct,</span>
   <span id="f000144">burning with loyal zeal,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and blissfully unconscious of all that lay before them.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Now the blue coats were worn by mature men,</span>
   <span id="f000147">some gray,</span>
   <span id="f000148">all grave and resolute:</span>
   <span id="f000149">husbands and fathers,</span>
   <span id="f000150">with the memory of wives and children tugging at their heart-strings;</span>
   <span id="f000151">homes left desolate behind them,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and before them the grim certainty of danger,</span>
   <span id="f000153">hardship,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and perhaps the lifelong helplessness worse than death.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Little of the glamour of romance about the war now:</span>
   <span id="f000156">they saw it as it was,</span>
   <span id="f000157">a long,</span>
   <span id="f000158">hard task;</span>
   <span id="f000159">and here were the men to do it well.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Even the lookers-on were different now.</span>
   <span id="f000161">Once all was wild enthusiasm and glad uproar;</span>
   <span id="f000162">now men’s lips were set,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and women’s smileless as they cheered;</span>
   <span id="f000164">fewer handkerchiefs whitened the air,</span>
   <span id="f000165">for wet eyes needed them;</span>
   <span id="f000166">and sudden lulls,</span>
   <span id="f000167">almost solemn in their stillness,</span>
   <span id="f000168">followed the acclamations of the crowd.</span>
   <span id="f000169">All watched with quickened breath and brave souls that living wave,</span>
   <span id="f000170">blue below,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and bright with a steely glitter above,</span>
   <span id="f000172">as it flowed down the street and away to distant battle-fields already stained with precious blood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“There he is!</span>
   <span id="f000174">The outside man,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and tallest of the lot.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Give him a cheer,</span>
   <span id="f000177">auntie:</span>
   <span id="f000178">he sees us,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and remembers!” cried Tom,</span>
   <span id="f000180">nearly tumbling off his perch,</span>
   <span id="f000181">as he waved his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and pointed out Joe Collins.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000184">there he was,</span>
   <span id="f000185">looking up,</span>
   <span id="f000186">with a smile on his brave brown face,</span>
   <span id="f000187">my little nosegay in his button-hole,</span>
   <span id="f000188">a suspicious bulge in the pocket close by,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and doubtless a comfortable quid in his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000190">to cheer the weary march.</span>
   <span id="f000191">How like an old friend he looked,</span>
   <span id="f000192">though we had only met fifteen minutes ago;</span>
   <span id="f000193">how glad we were to be there to smile back at him,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and send him on his way feeling that,</span>
   <span id="f000195">even in a strange city,</span>
   <span id="f000196">there was some one to say,</span>
   <span id="f000197">“God bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000198">Joe!” We watched the tallest blue cap till it vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and then went home in a glow of patriotism,</span>
   <span id="f000200">– Tom to long for his turn to come,</span>
   <span id="f000201">I to sew vigorously on the gray gown the new nurse burned to wear as soon as possible,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and both of us to think and speak often of poor Joe Collins and his Lucindy.</span>
   <span id="f000203">All this happened long ago;</span>
   <span id="f000204">but it is well to recall those stirring times,</span>
   <span id="f000205">– to keep fresh the memory of sacrifices made for us by men like these;</span>
   <span id="f000206">to see to it that the debt we owe them is honestly,</span>
   <span id="f000207">gladly paid;</span>
   <span id="f000208">and,</span>
   <span id="f000209">while we decorate the graves of those who died,</span>
   <span id="f000210">to remember also those who still live to deserve our grateful care.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

