<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">My Red Cap</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">I never expected to see Joe again;</span>
   <span id="f000004">but,</span>
   <span id="f000005">six months later,</span>
   <span id="f000006">we did meet in a Washington hospital one winter’s night.</span>
   <span id="f000007">A train of ambulances had left their sad freight at our door,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and we were hurrying to get the poor fellows into much needed beds,</span>
   <span id="f000009">after a week of hunger,</span>
   <span id="f000010">cold,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and unavoidable neglect.</span>
   <span id="f000012">All forms of pain were in my ward that night,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and all borne with the pathetic patience which was a daily marvel to those who saw it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Trying to bring order out of chaos,</span>
   <span id="f000015">I was rushing up and down the narrow aisle between the rows of rapidly filling beds,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and,</span>
   <span id="f000017">after brushing several times against a pair of the largest and muddiest boots I ever saw,</span>
   <span id="f000018">I paused at last to inquire why they were impeding the passageway.</span>
   <span id="f000019">I found they belonged to a very tall man who seemed to be already asleep or dead,</span>
   <span id="f000020">so white and still and utterly worn out he looked as he lay there,</span>
   <span id="f000021">without a coat,</span>
   <span id="f000022">a great patch on his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and the right arm rudely bundled up.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Stooping to cover him,</span>
   <span id="f000025">I saw that he was unconscious,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and,</span>
   <span id="f000027">whipping out my brandy-bottle and salts,</span>
   <span id="f000028">soon brought him round,</span>
   <span id="f000029">for it was only exhaustion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“Can you eat?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000031">as he said,</span>
   <span id="f000032">“Thanky,</span>
   <span id="f000033">ma’am,” after a long draught of water and a dizzy stare.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“Eat!</span>
   <span id="f000035">I’m starvin’!” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000036">with such a ravenous glance at a fat nurse who happened to be passing,</span>
   <span id="f000037">that I trembled for her,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and hastened to take a bowl of soup from her tray.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">As I fed him,</span>
   <span id="f000040">his gaunt,</span>
   <span id="f000041">weather-beaten face had a familiar look;</span>
   <span id="f000042">but so many such faces had passed before me that winter,</span>
   <span id="f000043">I did not recall this one till the ward-master came to put up the cards with the new-comers’ names above their beds.</span>
   <span id="f000044">My man seemed absorbed in his food;</span>
   <span id="f000045">but I naturally glanced at the card,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and there was the name “Joseph Collins” to give me an additional interest in my new patient.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000048">Joe!</span>
   <span id="f000049">is it really you?” I exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000050">pouring the last spoonful of soup down his throat so hastily that I choked him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“All that’s left of me.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Wal,</span>
   <span id="f000053">ain’t this luck,</span>
   <span id="f000054">now?” gasped Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000055">as gratefully as if that hospital-cot was a bed of roses.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">“What is the matter?</span>
   <span id="f000057">A wound in the head and arm?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000058">feeling sure that no slight affliction had brought Joe there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“Right arm gone.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Shot off as slick as a whistle.</span>
   <span id="f000061">I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000062">it’s a sing’lar kind of a feelin’ to see a piece of your own body go flyin’ away,</span>
   <span id="f000063">with no prospect of ever coming back again,” said Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000064">trying to make light of one of the greatest misfortunes a man can suffer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“That is bad,</span>
   <span id="f000066">but it might have been worse.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Keep up your spirits,</span>
   <span id="f000068">Joe;</span>
   <span id="f000069">and we will soon have you fitted out with a new arm almost as good as new.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“I guess it won’t do much lumberin’,</span>
   <span id="f000071">so that trade is done for.</span>
   <span id="f000072">I s’pose there’s things left-handed fellers can do,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and I must learn ’em as soon as possible,</span>
   <span id="f000074">since my fightin’ days are over,” and Joe looked at his one arm with a sigh that was almost a groan,</span>
   <span id="f000075">helplessness is such a trial to a manly man,</span>
   <span id="f000076">– and he was eminently so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“What can I do to comfort you most,</span>
   <span id="f000078">Joe?</span>
   <span id="f000079">I’ll send my good Ben to help you to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and will be here myself when the surgeon goes his rounds.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Is there anything else that would make you more easy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">“If you could just drop a line to mother to let her know I’m alive,</span>
   <span id="f000083">it would be a sight of comfort to both of us.</span>
   <span id="f000084">I guess I’m in for a long spell of hospital,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and I’d lay easier if I knew mother and Lucindy warn’t frettin’ about me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">He must have been suffering terribly,</span>
   <span id="f000087">but he thought of the women who loved him before himself,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and,</span>
   <span id="f000089">busy as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000090">I snatched a moment to send a few words of hope to the old mother.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Then I left him “layin’ easy,” though the prospect of some months of wearing pain would have daunted most men.</span>
   <span id="f000092">If I had needed anything to increase my regard for Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000093">it would have been the courage with which he bore a very bad quarter of an hour with the surgeons;</span>
   <span id="f000094">for his arm was in a dangerous state,</span>
   <span id="f000095">the wound in the head feverish for want of care;</span>
   <span id="f000096">and a heavy cold on the lungs suggested pneumonia as an added trial to his list of ills.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“He will have a hard time of it,</span>
   <span id="f000098">but I think he will pull through,</span>
   <span id="f000099">as he is a temperate fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000100">with a splendid constitution,” was the doctor’s verdict,</span>
   <span id="f000101">as he left us for the next man,</span>
   <span id="f000102">who was past help,</span>
   <span id="f000103">with a bullet through his lungs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“I don’no as I hanker to live,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and be a burden.</span>
   <span id="f000106">If Jim was able to do for mother,</span>
   <span id="f000107">I feel as if I wouldn’t mind steppin’ out now I’m so fur along.</span>
   <span id="f000108">As he ain’t,</span>
   <span id="f000109">I s’pose I must brace up,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and do the best I can,” said Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000111">as I wiped the drops from his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and tried to look as if his prospect was a bright one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“You will have Lucindy to help you,</span>
   <span id="f000114">you know;</span>
   <span id="f000115">and that will make things easier for all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“Think so?</span>
   <span id="f000117">’Pears to me I couldn’t ask her to take care of three invalids for my sake.</span>
   <span id="f000118">She ain’t no folks of her own,</span>
   <span id="f000119">nor much means,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and ought to marry a man who can make things easy for her.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Guess I’ll have to wait a spell longer before I say anything to Lucindy about marryin’ now;” and a look of resolute resignation settled on Joe’s haggard face as he gave up his dearest hope.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“I think Lucindy will have something to say,</span>
   <span id="f000123">if she is like most women,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and you will find the burdens much lighter,</span>
   <span id="f000125">for sharing them between you.</span>
   <span id="f000126">Don’t worry about that,</span>
   <span id="f000127">but get well,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and go home as soon as you can.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“All right,</span>
   <span id="f000130">ma’am;” and Joe proved himself a good soldier by obeying orders,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and falling asleep like a tired child,</span>
   <span id="f000132">as the first step toward recovery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">For two months I saw Joe daily,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and learned to like him very much,</span>
   <span id="f000135">he was so honest,</span>
   <span id="f000136">genuine,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and kind-hearted.</span>
   <span id="f000138">So did his mates,</span>
   <span id="f000139">for he made friends with them all by sharing such small luxuries as came to him,</span>
   <span id="f000140">for he was a favorite;</span>
   <span id="f000141">and,</span>
   <span id="f000142">better still,</span>
   <span id="f000143">he made sunshine in that sad place by the brave patience with which he bore his own troubles,</span>
   <span id="f000144">the cheerful consolation he always gave to others.</span>
   <span id="f000145">A droll fellow was Joe at times,</span>
   <span id="f000146">for under his sobriety lay much humor;</span>
   <span id="f000147">and I soon discovered that a visit from him was more efficacious than other cordials in cases of despondency and discontent.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Roars of laughter sometimes greeted me as I went into his ward,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and Joe’s jokes were passed round as eagerly as the water-pitcher.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">Yet he had much to try him,</span>
   <span id="f000151">not only in the ills that vexed his flesh,</span>
   <span id="f000152">but the cares that tried his spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and the future that lay before him,</span>
   <span id="f000154">full of anxieties and responsibilities which seemed so heavy now when the strong right arm,</span>
   <span id="f000155">that had cleared all obstacles away before,</span>
   <span id="f000156">was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000157">The letters I wrote for him,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and those he received,</span>
   <span id="f000159">told the little story very plainly;</span>
   <span id="f000160">for he read them to me,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and found much comfort in talking over his affairs,</span>
   <span id="f000162">as most men do when illness makes them dependent on a woman.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Jim was evidently sick and selfish.</span>
   <span id="f000164">Lucindy,</span>
   <span id="f000165">to judge from the photograph cherished so tenderly under Joe’s pillow,</span>
   <span id="f000166">was a pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000167">weak sort of a girl,</span>
   <span id="f000168">with little character or courage to help poor Joe with his burdens.</span>
   <span id="f000169">The old mother was very like her son,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and stood by him “like a hero,” as he said,</span>
   <span id="f000171">but was evidently failing,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and begged him to come home as soon as he was able,</span>
   <span id="f000173">that she might see him comfortably settled before she must leave him.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Her courage sustained his,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and the longing to see her hastened his departure as soon as it was safe to let him go;</span>
   <span id="f000176">for Lucindy’s letters were always of a dismal sort,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and made him anxious to put his shoulder to the wheel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“She always set consider’ble by me,</span>
   <span id="f000179">mother did,</span>
   <span id="f000180">bein’ the oldest;</span>
   <span id="f000181">and I wouldn’t miss makin’ her last days happy,</span>
   <span id="f000182">not if it cost me all the arms and legs I’ve got,” said Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000183">as he awkwardly struggled into the big boots an hour after leave to go home was given him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">It was pleasant to see his comrades gather round him with such hearty adieus that his one hand must have tingled;</span>
   <span id="f000185">to hear the good wishes and the thanks called after him by pale creatures in their beds;</span>
   <span id="f000186">and to find tears in many eyes beside my own when he was gone,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and nothing was left of him but the empty cot,</span>
   <span id="f000188">the old gray wrapper,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and the name upon the wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">I kept that card among my other relics,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and hoped to meet Joe again somewhere in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000192">He sent me one or two letters,</span>
   <span id="f000193">then I went home;</span>
   <span id="f000194">the war ended soon after,</span>
   <span id="f000195">time passed,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and the little story of my Maine lumberman was laid away with many other experiences which made that part of my life a very memorable one.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

