<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">My Red Cap</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">Some years later,</span>
   <span id="f000004">as I looked out of my window one dull November day,</span>
   <span id="f000005">the only cheerful thing I saw was the red cap of a messenger who was examining the slate that hung on a wall opposite my hotel.</span>
   <span id="f000006">A tall man with gray hair and beard,</span>
   <span id="f000007">one arm,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and a blue army-coat.</span>
   <span id="f000009">I always salute,</span>
   <span id="f000010">figuratively at least,</span>
   <span id="f000011">when I see that familiar blue,</span>
   <span id="f000012">especially if one sleeve of the coat is empty;</span>
   <span id="f000013">so I watched the messenger with interest as he trudged away on some new errand,</span>
   <span id="f000014">wishing he had a better day and a thicker pair of boots.</span>
   <span id="f000015">He was an unusually large,</span>
   <span id="f000016">well-made man,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and reminded me of a fine building going to ruin before its time;</span>
   <span id="f000018">for the broad shoulders were bent,</span>
   <span id="f000019">there was a stiffness about the long legs suggestive of wounds or rheumatism,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and the curly hair looked as if snow had fallen on it too soon.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Sitting at work in my window,</span>
   <span id="f000022">I fell into the way of watching my Red Cap,</span>
   <span id="f000023">as I called him,</span>
   <span id="f000024">with more interest than I did the fat doves on the roof opposite,</span>
   <span id="f000025">or the pert sparrows hopping in the mud below.</span>
   <span id="f000026">I liked the steady way in which he plodded on through fair weather or foul,</span>
   <span id="f000027">as if intent on doing well the one small service he had found to do.</span>
   <span id="f000028">I liked his cheerful whistle as he stood waiting for a job under the porch of the public building where his slate hung,</span>
   <span id="f000029">watching the luxurious carriages roll by,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and the well-to-do gentlemen who daily passed him to their comfortable homes,</span>
   <span id="f000031">with a steady,</span>
   <span id="f000032">patient sort of face,</span>
   <span id="f000033">as if wondering at the inequalities of fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000034">yet neither melancholy nor morose over the small share of prosperity which had fallen to his lot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">I often planned to give him a job,</span>
   <span id="f000036">that I might see him nearer;</span>
   <span id="f000037">but I had few errands,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and little Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000039">the hall-boy,</span>
   <span id="f000040">depended on doing those:</span>
   <span id="f000041">so the winter was nearly over before I found out that my Red Cap was an old friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">A parcel came for me one day,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and bidding the man wait for an answer,</span>
   <span id="f000044">I sat down to write it,</span>
   <span id="f000045">while the messenger stood just inside the door like a sentinel on duty.</span>
   <span id="f000046">When I looked up to give my note and directions,</span>
   <span id="f000047">I found the man staring at me with a beaming yet bashful face,</span>
   <span id="f000048">as he nodded,</span>
   <span id="f000049">saying heartily,</span>
   <span id="f000050">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“I mistrusted it was you,</span>
   <span id="f000052">ma’am,</span>
   <span id="f000053">soon’s I see the name on the bundle,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and I guess I ain’t wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000055">It’s a number of years sence we met,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and you don’t remember Joe Collins as well as he does you,</span>
   <span id="f000057">I reckon?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000059">how you have changed!</span>
   <span id="f000060">I’ve been seeing you every day all winter,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and never knew you,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000062">shaking hands with my old patient,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and very glad to see him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“Nigh on to twenty years makes consid’able of a change in folks,</span>
   <span id="f000065">’specially if they have a pretty hard row to hoe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“Sit down and warm yourself while you tell me all about it;</span>
   <span id="f000067">there is no hurry for this answer,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and I’ll pay for your time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">Joe laughed as if that was a good joke,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and sat down as if the fire was quite as welcome as the friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“How are they all at home?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000072">as he sat turning his cap round,</span>
   <span id="f000073">not quite knowing where to begin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“I haven’t got any home nor any folks neither;” and the melancholy words banished the brightness from his rough face like a cloud.</span>
   <span id="f000075">“Mother died soon after I got back.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Suddin’,</span>
   <span id="f000077">but she was ready,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and I was there,</span>
   <span id="f000079">so she was happy.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Jim lived a number of years,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and was a sight of care,</span>
   <span id="f000082">poor feller;</span>
   <span id="f000083">but we managed to rub along,</span>
   <span id="f000084">though we had to sell the farm:</span>
   <span id="f000085">for I couldn’t do much with one arm,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and doctor’s bills right along stiddy take a heap of money.</span>
   <span id="f000087">He was as comfortable as he could be;</span>
   <span id="f000088">and,</span>
   <span id="f000089">when he was gone,</span>
   <span id="f000090">it wasn’t no great matter,</span>
   <span id="f000091">for there was only me,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and I don’t mind roughin’ it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“But Lucindy,</span>
   <span id="f000094">where was she?” I asked very naturally.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000096">she married another man long ago.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Couldn’t expect her to take me and my misfortins.</span>
   <span id="f000098">She’s doin’ well,</span>
   <span id="f000099">I hear,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and that’s a comfort anyway.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">There was a look on Joe’s face,</span>
   <span id="f000102">a tone in Joe’s voice as he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000103">that plainly showed how much he had needed comfort when left to bear his misfortunes all alone.</span>
   <span id="f000104">But he made no complaint,</span>
   <span id="f000105">uttered no reproach,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and loyally excused Lucindy’s desertion with a simple sort of dignity that made it impossible to express pity or condemnation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“How came you here,</span>
   <span id="f000108">Joe?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000109">making a sudden leap from past to present.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“I had to scratch for a livin’,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and can’t do much:</span>
   <span id="f000112">so,</span>
   <span id="f000113">after tryin’ a number of things,</span>
   <span id="f000114">I found this.</span>
   <span id="f000115">My old wounds pester me a good deal,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and rheumatism is bad winters;</span>
   <span id="f000117">but,</span>
   <span id="f000118">while my legs hold out,</span>
   <span id="f000119">I can git on.</span>
   <span id="f000120">A man can’t set down and starve;</span>
   <span id="f000121">so I keep waggin’ as long as I can.</span>
   <span id="f000122">When I can’t do no more,</span>
   <span id="f000123">I s’pose there’s almshouse and hospital ready for me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“That is a dismal prospect,</span>
   <span id="f000125">Joe.</span>
   <span id="f000126">There ought to be a comfortable place for such as you to spend your last days in.</span>
   <span id="f000127">I am sure you have earned it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Wal,</span>
   <span id="f000129">it does seem ruther hard on us when we’ve give all we had,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and give it free and hearty,</span>
   <span id="f000131">to be left to knock about in our old age.</span>
   <span id="f000132">But there’s so many poor folks to be took care of,</span>
   <span id="f000133">we don’t get much of a chance,</span>
   <span id="f000134">for <em>we</em> ain’t the beggin’ sort,” said Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000135">with a wistful look at the wintry world outside,</span>
   <span id="f000136">as if it would be better to lie quiet under the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000137">than to drag out his last painful years,</span>
   <span id="f000138">friendless and forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000139">in some refuge of the poor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“Some kind people have been talking of a home for soldiers,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and I hope the plan will be carried out.</span>
   <span id="f000142">It will take time;</span>
   <span id="f000143">but,</span>
   <span id="f000144">if it comes to pass,</span>
   <span id="f000145">you shall be one of the first men to enter that home,</span>
   <span id="f000146">Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000147">if I can get you there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“That sounds mighty cheerin’ and comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000149">thanky,</span>
   <span id="f000150">ma’am.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Idleness is dreadful tryin’ to me,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and I’d rather wear out than rust out;</span>
   <span id="f000153">so I guess I can weather it a spell longer.</span>
   <span id="f000154">But it will be pleasant to look forrard to a snug harbor bymeby.</span>
   <span id="f000155">I feel a sight better just hearin’ tell about it.” He certainly looked so,</span>
   <span id="f000156">faint as the hope was;</span>
   <span id="f000157">for the melancholy eyes brightened as if they already saw a happier refuge in the future than almshouse,</span>
   <span id="f000158">hospital,</span>
   <span id="f000159">or grave,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and,</span>
   <span id="f000161">when he trudged away upon my errand,</span>
   <span id="f000162">he went as briskly as if every step took him nearer to the promised home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">After that day it was all up with Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000164">for I told my neighbors Joe’s story,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and we kept him trotting busily,</span>
   <span id="f000166">adding little gifts,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and taking the sort of interest in him that comforted the lonely fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and made him feel that he had not outlived his usefulness.</span>
   <span id="f000169">I never looked out when he was at his post that he did not smile back at me;</span>
   <span id="f000170">I never passed him in the street that the red cap was not touched with a military flourish;</span>
   <span id="f000171">and,</span>
   <span id="f000172">when any of us beckoned to him,</span>
   <span id="f000173">no twinge of rheumatism was too sharp to keep him from hurrying to do our errands,</span>
   <span id="f000174">as if he had Mercury’s winged feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">Now and then he came in for a chat,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and always asked how the Soldiers’ Home was prospering;</span>
   <span id="f000177">expressing his opinion that “Boston was the charitablest city under the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and he was sure he and his mates would be took care of somehow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">When we parted in the spring,</span>
   <span id="f000180">I told him things looked hopeful,</span>
   <span id="f000181">bade him be ready for a good long rest as soon as the hospitable doors were open,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and left him nodding cheerfully.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

