<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">My Red Cap</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">But in the autumn I looked in vain for Joe.</span>
   <span id="f000004">The slate was in its old place,</span>
   <span id="f000005">and a messenger came and went on his beat;</span>
   <span id="f000006">but a strange face was under the red cap,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and this man had two arms and one eye.</span>
   <span id="f000008">I asked for Collins,</span>
   <span id="f000009">but the new-comer had only a vague idea that he was dead;</span>
   <span id="f000010">and the same answer was given me at headquarters,</span>
   <span id="f000011">though none of the busy people seemed to know when or where he died.</span>
   <span id="f000012">So I mourned for Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and felt that it was very hard he could not have lived to enjoy the promised refuge;</span>
   <span id="f000014">for,</span>
   <span id="f000015">relying upon the charity that never fails,</span>
   <span id="f000016">the Home was an actual fact now,</span>
   <span id="f000017">just beginning its beneficent career.</span>
   <span id="f000018">People were waking up to this duty,</span>
   <span id="f000019">money was coming in,</span>
   <span id="f000020">meetings were being held,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and already a few poor fellows were in the refuge,</span>
   <span id="f000022">feeling themselves no longer paupers,</span>
   <span id="f000023">but invalid soldiers honorably supported by the State they had served.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Talking it over one day with a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000025">who spent her life working for the Associated Charities,</span>
   <span id="f000026">she said,</span>
   <span id="f000027">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">“By the way,</span>
   <span id="f000029">there is a man boarding with one of my poor women,</span>
   <span id="f000030">who ought to be got into the Home,</span>
   <span id="f000031">if he will go.</span>
   <span id="f000032">I don’t know much about him,</span>
   <span id="f000033">except that he was in the army,</span>
   <span id="f000034">has been very ill with rheumatic fever,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and is friendless.</span>
   <span id="f000036">I asked Mrs.&#160;Flanagin how she managed to keep him,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and she said she had help while he was sick,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and now he is able to hobble about,</span>
   <span id="f000039">he takes care of the children,</span>
   <span id="f000040">so she is able to go out to work.</span>
   <span id="f000041">He won’t go to his own town,</span>
   <span id="f000042">because there is nothing for him there but the almshouse,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and he dreads a hospital;</span>
   <span id="f000044">so struggles along,</span>
   <span id="f000045">trying to earn his bread tending babies with his one arm.</span>
   <span id="f000046">A sad case,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and in your line;</span>
   <span id="f000048">I wish you’d look into it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">“That sounds like my Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000050">one arm and all.</span>
   <span id="f000051">I’ll go and see him;</span>
   <span id="f000052">I’ve a weakness for soldiers,</span>
   <span id="f000053">sick or well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">I went,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and never shall forget the pathetic little tableau I saw as I opened Mrs.&#160;Flanagin’s dingy door;</span>
   <span id="f000056">for she was out,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and no one heard my tap.</span>
   <span id="f000058">The room was redolent of suds,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and in a grove of damp clothes hung on lines sat a man with a crying baby laid across his lap,</span>
   <span id="f000060">while he fed three small children standing at his knee with bread and molasses.</span>
   <span id="f000061">How he managed with one arm to keep the baby from squirming on to the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000062">the plate from upsetting,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and to feed the hungry urchins who stood in a row with open mouths,</span>
   <span id="f000064">like young birds,</span>
   <span id="f000065">was past my comprehension.</span>
   <span id="f000066">But he did,</span>
   <span id="f000067">trotting baby gently,</span>
   <span id="f000068">dealing out sweet morsels patiently,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and whistling to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000070">as if to beguile his labors cheerfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">The broad back,</span>
   <span id="f000072">the long legs,</span>
   <span id="f000073">the faded coat,</span>
   <span id="f000074">the low whistle were all familiar;</span>
   <span id="f000075">and,</span>
   <span id="f000076">dodging a wet sheet,</span>
   <span id="f000077">I faced the man to find it was indeed my Joe!</span>
   <span id="f000078">A mere shadow of his former self,</span>
   <span id="f000079">after months of suffering that had crippled him for life,</span>
   <span id="f000080">but brave and patient still;</span>
   <span id="f000081">trying to help himself,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and not ask aid though brought so low.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">For an instant I could not speak to him,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and,</span>
   <span id="f000085">encumbered with baby,</span>
   <span id="f000086">dish,</span>
   <span id="f000087">spoon,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and children,</span>
   <span id="f000089">he could only stare at me with a sudden brightening of the altered face that made it full of welcome before a word was uttered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“They told me you were dead,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and I only heard of you by accident,</span>
   <span id="f000092">not knowing I should find my old friend alive,</span>
   <span id="f000093">but not well,</span>
   <span id="f000094">I’m afraid?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“There ain’t much left of me but bones and pain,</span>
   <span id="f000096">ma’am.</span>
   <span id="f000097">I’m powerful glad to see you all the same.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Dust off a chair,</span>
   <span id="f000099">Patsey,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and let the lady set down.</span>
   <span id="f000101">You go in the corner,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and take turns lickin’ the dish,</span>
   <span id="f000103">while I see company,” said Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000104">disbanding his small troop,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and shouldering the baby as if presenting arms in honor of his guest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Why didn’t you let me know how sick you were?</span>
   <span id="f000107">And how came they to think you dead?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000108">as he festooned the wet linen out of the way,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and prepared to enjoy himself as best he could.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“I did send once,</span>
   <span id="f000111">when things was at the wust;</span>
   <span id="f000112">but you hadn’t got back,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and then somehow I thought I was goin’ to be mustered out for good,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and so wouldn’t trouble nobody.</span>
   <span id="f000115">But my orders ain’t come yet,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and I am doing the fust thing that come along.</span>
   <span id="f000117">It ain’t much,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but the good soul stood by me,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and I ain’t ashamed to pay my debts this way,</span>
   <span id="f000120">sence I can’t do it in no other;” and Joe cradled the chubby baby in his one arm as tenderly as if it had been his own,</span>
   <span id="f000121">though little Biddy was not an inviting infant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“That is very beautiful and right,</span>
   <span id="f000123">Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and I honor you for it;</span>
   <span id="f000125">but you were not meant to tend babies,</span>
   <span id="f000126">so sing your last lullabies,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and be ready to go to the Home as soon as I can get you there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Really,</span>
   <span id="f000129">ma’am?</span>
   <span id="f000130">I used to lay and kind of dream about it when I couldn’t stir without yellin’ out;</span>
   <span id="f000131">but I never thought it would ever come to happen.</span>
   <span id="f000132">I see a piece in the paper describing it,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and it sounded dreadful nice.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Shouldn’t wonder if I found some of my mates there.</span>
   <span id="f000135">They were a good lot,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and deservin’ of all that could be done for ’em,” said Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000137">trotting the baby briskly,</span>
   <span id="f000138">as if the prospect excited him,</span>
   <span id="f000139">as well it might,</span>
   <span id="f000140">for the change from that damp nursery to the comfortable quarters prepared for him would be like going from Purgatory to Paradise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“I don’t wonder you don’t get well living in such a place,</span>
   <span id="f000142">Joe.</span>
   <span id="f000143">You should have gone home to Woolwich,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and let your friends help you,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000145">feeling provoked with him for hiding himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000147">ma’am!” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000148">with a look I never shall forget,</span>
   <span id="f000149">it was so full of mingled patience,</span>
   <span id="f000150">pride,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and pain.</span>
   <span id="f000152">“I haven’t a relation in the world but a couple of poor old aunts,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and they couldn’t do anything for me.</span>
   <span id="f000154">As for asking help of folks I used to know,</span>
   <span id="f000155">I couldn’t do it;</span>
   <span id="f000156">and if you think I’d go to Lucindy,</span>
   <span id="f000157">though she is wal off,</span>
   <span id="f000158">you don’t know Joe Collins.</span>
   <span id="f000159">I’d die fust!</span>
   <span id="f000160">If she was poor and I rich,</span>
   <span id="f000161">I’d do for her like a brother;</span>
   <span id="f000162">but I couldn’t ask no favors of her,</span>
   <span id="f000163">not if I begged my vittles in the street,</span>
   <span id="f000164">or starved.</span>
   <span id="f000165">I forgive,</span>
   <span id="f000166">but I don’t forgit in a hurry;</span>
   <span id="f000167">and the woman that stood by me when I was down is the woman I believe in,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and can take my bread from without shame.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Hooray for Biddy Flanagin!</span>
   <span id="f000170">God bless her!” and,</span>
   <span id="f000171">as if to find a vent for the emotion that filled his eyes with grateful tears,</span>
   <span id="f000172">Joe led off the cheer,</span>
   <span id="f000173">which the children shrilly echoed,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and I joined heartily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“I shall come for you in a few days;</span>
   <span id="f000176">so cuddle the baby and make much of the children before you part.</span>
   <span id="f000177">It won’t take you long to pack up,</span>
   <span id="f000178">will it?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000179">as we subsided with a general laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“I reckon not as I don’t own any clothes but what I set in,</span>
   <span id="f000181">except a couple of old shirts and them socks.</span>
   <span id="f000182">My hat’s stoppin’ up the winder,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and my old coat is my bed-cover.</span>
   <span id="f000184">I’m awful shabby,</span>
   <span id="f000185">ma’am,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and that’s one reason I don’t go out more.</span>
   <span id="f000187">I can hobble some,</span>
   <span id="f000188">but I ain’t got used to bein’ a scarecrow yet,” and Joe glanced from the hose without heels that hung on the line to the ragged suit he wore,</span>
   <span id="f000189">with a resigned expression that made me long to rush out and buy up half the contents of Oak Hall on the spot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">Curbing this wild impulse I presently departed with promises of speedy transportation for Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and unlimited oranges to assuage the pangs of parting for the young Flanagins,</span>
   <span id="f000192">who escorted me to the door,</span>
   <span id="f000193">while Joe waved the baby like a triumphal banner till I got round the corner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">There was such a beautiful absence of red tape about the new institution that it only needed a word in the right ear to set things going;</span>
   <span id="f000195">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000196">with a long pull,</span>
   <span id="f000197">a strong pull,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and a pull all together,</span>
   <span id="f000199">Joe Collins was taken up and safely landed in the Home he so much needed and so well deserved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">A happier man or a more grateful one it would be hard to find,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and if a visitor wants an enthusiastic guide about the place,</span>
   <span id="f000202">Joe is the one to take,</span>
   <span id="f000203">for all is comfort,</span>
   <span id="f000204">sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and good-will to him;</span>
   <span id="f000206">and he unconsciously shows how great the need of this refuge is,</span>
   <span id="f000207">as he hobbles about on his lame feet,</span>
   <span id="f000208">pointing out its beauties,</span>
   <span id="f000209">conveniences,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and delights with his one arm,</span>
   <span id="f000211">while his face shines,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and his voice quavers a little as he says gratefully,</span>
   <span id="f000213">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“The State don’t forget us,</span>
   <span id="f000215">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and this is a Home wuth havin’.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Long life to it!”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

