<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>mb</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Flappers and Philosophers</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">The Ice Palace</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">The sunlight dripped over the house like golden paint over an art jar,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and the freckling shadows here and there only intensified the rigor of the bath of light.</span>
   <span id="f000010">The Butterworth and Larkin houses flanking were entrenched behind great stodgy trees;</span>
   <span id="f000011">only the Happer house took the full sun,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and all day long faced the dusty road-street with a tolerant kindly patience.</span>
   <span id="f000013">This was the city of Tarleton in southernmost Georgia,</span>
   <span id="f000014">September afternoon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">Up in her bedroom window Sally Carrol Happer rested her nineteen-year-old chin on a fifty-two-year-old sill and watched Clark Darrow’s ancient Ford turn the corner.</span>
   <span id="f000016">The car was hot – being partly metallic it retained all the heat it absorbed or evolved – and Clark Darrow sitting bolt upright at the wheel wore a pained,</span>
   <span id="f000017">strained expression as though he considered himself a spare part,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and rather likely to break.</span>
   <span id="f000019">He laboriously crossed two dust ruts,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the wheels squeaking indignantly at the encounter,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and then with a terrifying expression he gave the steering-gear a final wrench and deposited self and car approximately in front of the Happer steps.</span>
   <span id="f000022">There was a heaving sound,</span>
   <span id="f000023">a death-rattle,</span>
   <span id="f000024">followed by a short silence;</span>
   <span id="f000025">and then the air was rent by a startling whistle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">Sally Carrol gazed down sleepily.</span>
   <span id="f000027">She started to yawn,</span>
   <span id="f000028">but finding this quite impossible unless she raised her chin from the window-sill,</span>
   <span id="f000029">changed her mind and continued silently to regard the car,</span>
   <span id="f000030">whose owner sat brilliantly if perfunctorily at attention as he waited for an answer to his signal.</span>
   <span id="f000031">After a moment the whistle once more split the dusty air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">“Good mawnin’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">With difficulty Clark twisted his tall body round and bent a distorted glance on the window.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“Tain’t mawnin’,</span>
   <span id="f000035">Sally Carrol.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“Isn’t it,</span>
   <span id="f000037">sure enough?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“What you doin’?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“Eatin’ ’n apple.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“Come on go swimmin’ – want to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">“Reckon so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“How ’bout hurryin’ up?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“Sure enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">Sally Carrol sighed voluminously and raised herself with profound inertia from the floor where she had been occupied in alternately destroyed parts of a green apple and painting paper dolls for her younger sister.</span>
   <span id="f000045">She approached a mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000046">regarded her expression with a pleased and pleasant languor,</span>
   <span id="f000047">dabbed two spots of rouge on her lips and a grain of powder on her nose,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and covered her bobbed corn-colored hair with a rose-littered sunbonnet.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Then she kicked over the painting water,</span>
   <span id="f000050">said,</span>
   <span id="f000051">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000052">damn!” – but let it lay – and left the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“How you,</span>
   <span id="f000054">Clark?” she inquired a minute later as she slipped nimbly over the side of the car.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">“Mighty fine,</span>
   <span id="f000056">Sally Carrol.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">“Where we go swimmin’?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Out to Walley’s Pool.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Told Marylyn we’d call by an’ get her an’ Joe Ewing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">Clark was dark and lean,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and when on foot was rather inclined to stoop.</span>
   <span id="f000062">His eyes were ominous and his expression somewhat petulant except when startlingly illuminated by one of his frequent smiles.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Clark had “a income” – just enough to keep himself in ease and his car in gasolene – and he had spent the two years since he graduated from Georgia Tech in dozing round the lazy streets of his home town,</span>
   <span id="f000064">discussing how he could best invest his capital for an immediate fortune.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">Hanging round he found not at all difficult;</span>
   <span id="f000066">a crowd of little girls had grown up beautifully,</span>
   <span id="f000067">the amazing Sally Carrol foremost among them;</span>
   <span id="f000068">and they enjoyed being swum with and danced with and made love to in the flower-filled summery evenings – and they all liked Clark immensely.</span>
   <span id="f000069">When feminine company palled there were half a dozen other youths who were always just about to do something,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and meanwhile were quite willing to join him in a few holes of golf,</span>
   <span id="f000071">or a game of billiards,</span>
   <span id="f000072">or the consumption of a quart of “hard yella licker.” Every once in a while one of these contemporaries made a farewell round of calls before going up to New York or Philadelphia or Pittsburgh to go into business,</span>
   <span id="f000073">but mostly they just stayed round in this languid paradise of dreamy skies and firefly evenings and noisy nigger street fairs – and especially of gracious,</span>
   <span id="f000074">soft-voiced girls,</span>
   <span id="f000075">who were brought up on memories instead of money.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">The Ford having been excited into a sort of restless resentful life Clark and Sally Carrol rolled and rattled down Valley Avenue into Jefferson Street,</span>
   <span id="f000077">where the dust road became a pavement;</span>
   <span id="f000078">along opiate Millicent Place,</span>
   <span id="f000079">where there were half a dozen prosperous,</span>
   <span id="f000080">substantial mansions;</span>
   <span id="f000081">and on into the down-town section.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Driving was perilous here,</span>
   <span id="f000083">for it was shopping time;</span>
   <span id="f000084">the population idled casually across the streets and a drove of low-moaning oxen were being urged along in front of a placid street-car;</span>
   <span id="f000085">even the shops seemed only yawning their doors and blinking their windows in the sunshine before retiring into a state of utter and finite coma.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“Sally Carrol,” said Clark suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000087">“it a fact that you’re engaged?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">She looked at him quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“Where’d you hear that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“Sure enough,</span>
   <span id="f000091">you engaged?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“’At’s a nice question!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“Girl told me you were engaged to a Yankee you met up in Asheville last summer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">Sally Carrol sighed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Never saw such an old town for rumors.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“Don’t marry a Yankee,</span>
   <span id="f000097">Sally Carrol.</span>
   <span id="f000098">We need you round here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">Sally Carrol was silent a moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“Clark,” she demanded suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000101">“who on earth shall I marry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“I offer my services.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Honey,</span>
   <span id="f000104">you couldn’t support a wife,” she answered cheerfully.</span>
   <span id="f000105">“Anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000106">I know you too well to fall in love with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“’At doesn’t mean you ought to marry a Yankee,” he persisted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“S’pose I love him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">He shook his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“You couldn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000111">He’d be a lot different from us,</span>
   <span id="f000112">every way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">He broke off as he halted the car in front of a rambling,</span>
   <span id="f000114">dilapidated house.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Marylyn Wade and Joe Ewing appeared in the doorway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“’Lo Sally Carrol.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“Hi!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">“How you-all?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“Sally Carrol,” demanded Marylyn as they started of again,</span>
   <span id="f000120">“you engaged?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“Lawdy,</span>
   <span id="f000122">where’d all this start?</span>
   <span id="f000123">Can’t I look at a man ’thout everybody in town engagin’ me to him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">Clark stared straight in front of him at a bolt on the clattering wind-shield.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">“Sally Carrol,” he said with a curious intensity,</span>
   <span id="f000126">“don’t you ’like us?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Us down here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000130">Clark,</span>
   <span id="f000131">you know I do.</span>
   <span id="f000132">I adore all you boys.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Then why you gettin’ engaged to a Yankee?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">“Clark,</span>
   <span id="f000135">I don’t know.</span>
   <span id="f000136">I’m not sure what I’ll do,</span>
   <span id="f000137">but – well,</span>
   <span id="f000138">I want to go places and see people.</span>
   <span id="f000139">I want my mind to grow.</span>
   <span id="f000140">I want to live where things happen on a big scale.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“What you mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000143">Clark,</span>
   <span id="f000144">I love you,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and I love Joe here and Ben Arrot,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and you-all,</span>
   <span id="f000147">but you’ll – you’ll – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“We’ll all be failures?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000150">I don’t mean only money failures,</span>
   <span id="f000151">but just sort of – of ineffectual and sad,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000153">how can I tell you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“You mean because we stay here in Tarleton?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000156">Clark;</span>
   <span id="f000157">and because you like it and never want to change things or think or go ahead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">He nodded and she reached over and pressed his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“Clark,” she said softly,</span>
   <span id="f000160">“I wouldn’t change you for the world.</span>
   <span id="f000161">You’re sweet the way you are.</span>
   <span id="f000162">The things that’ll make you fail I’ll love always – the living in the past,</span>
   <span id="f000163">the lazy days and nights you have,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and all your carelessness and generosity.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">“But you’re goin’ away?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Yes – because I couldn’t ever marry you.</span>
   <span id="f000167">You’ve a place in my heart no one else ever could have,</span>
   <span id="f000168">but tied down here I’d get restless.</span>
   <span id="f000169">I’d feel I was – wastin’ myself.</span>
   <span id="f000170">There’s two sides to me,</span>
   <span id="f000171">you see.</span>
   <span id="f000172">There’s the sleepy old side you love an’ there’s a sort of energy – the feeling that makes me do wild things.</span>
   <span id="f000173">That’s the part of me that may be useful somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000174">that’ll last when I’m not beautiful any more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">She broke of with characteristic suddenness and sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000176">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000177">sweet cooky!” as her mood changed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">Half closing her eyes and tipping back her head till it rested on the seat-back she let the savory breeze fan her eyes and ripple the fluffy curls of her bobbed hair.</span>
   <span id="f000179">They were in the country now,</span>
   <span id="f000180">hurrying between tangled growths of bright-green coppice and grass and tall trees that sent sprays of foliage to hang a cool welcome over the road.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Here and there they passed a battered negro cabin,</span>
   <span id="f000182">its oldest white-haired inhabitant smoking a corncob pipe beside the door,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and half a dozen scantily clothed pickaninnies parading tattered dolls on the wild-grown grass in front.</span>
   <span id="f000184">Farther out were lazy cotton-fields where even the workers seemed intangible shadows lent by the sun to the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000185">not for toil,</span>
   <span id="f000186">but to while away some age-old tradition in the golden September fields.</span>
   <span id="f000187">And round the drowsy picturesqueness,</span>
   <span id="f000188">over the trees and shacks and muddy rivers,</span>
   <span id="f000189">flowed the heat,</span>
   <span id="f000190">never hostile,</span>
   <span id="f000191">only comforting,</span>
   <span id="f000192">like a great warm nourishing bosom for the infant earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“Sally Carrol,</span>
   <span id="f000194">we’re here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Poor chile’s soun’ asleep.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Honey,</span>
   <span id="f000197">you dead at last outa sheer laziness?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“Water,</span>
   <span id="f000199">Sally Carrol!</span>
   <span id="f000200">Cool water waitin’ for you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">Her eyes opened sleepily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Hi!” she murmured,</span>
   <span id="f000203">smiling.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000204">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000205">In November Harry Bellamy,</span>
   <span id="f000206">tall,</span>
   <span id="f000207">broad,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and brisk,</span>
   <span id="f000209">came down from his Northern city to spend four days.</span>
   <span id="f000210">His intention was to settle a matter that had been hanging fire since he and Sally Carrol had met in Asheville,</span>
   <span id="f000211">North Carolina,</span>
   <span id="f000212">in midsummer.</span>
   <span id="f000213">The settlement took only a quiet afternoon and an evening in front of a glowing open fire,</span>
   <span id="f000214">for Harry Bellamy had everything she wanted;</span>
   <span id="f000215">and,</span>
   <span id="f000216">beside,</span>
   <span id="f000217">she loved him – loved him with that side of her she kept especially for loving.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Sally Carrol had several rather clearly defined sides.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">On his last afternoon they walked,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and she found their steps tending half-unconsciously toward one of her favorite haunts,</span>
   <span id="f000221">the cemetery.</span>
   <span id="f000222">When it came in sight,</span>
   <span id="f000223">gray-white and golden-green under the cheerful late sun,</span>
   <span id="f000224">she paused,</span>
   <span id="f000225">irresolute,</span>
   <span id="f000226">by the iron gate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“Are you mournful by nature,</span>
   <span id="f000228">Harry?” she asked with a faint smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“Mournful?</span>
   <span id="f000230">Not I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">“Then let’s go in here.</span>
   <span id="f000232">It depresses some folks,</span>
   <span id="f000233">but I like it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">They passed through the gateway and followed a path that led through a wavy valley of graves – dusty-gray and mouldy for the fifties;</span>
   <span id="f000235">quaintly carved with flowers and jars for the seventies;</span>
   <span id="f000236">ornate and hideous for the nineties,</span>
   <span id="f000237">with fat marble cherubs lying in sodden sleep on stone pillows,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and great impossible growths of nameless granite flowers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">Occasionally they saw a kneeling figure with tributary flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000240">but over most of the graves lay silence and withered leaves with only the fragrance that their own shadowy memories could waken in living minds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">They reached the top of a hill where they were fronted by a tall,</span>
   <span id="f000242">round head-stone,</span>
   <span id="f000243">freckled with dark spots of damp and half grown over with vines.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“Margery Lee,” she read;</span>
   <span id="f000245">“1844-1873.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Wasn’t she nice?</span>
   <span id="f000247">She died when she was twenty-nine.</span>
   <span id="f000248">Dear Margery Lee,” she added softly.</span>
   <span id="f000249">“Can’t you see her,</span>
   <span id="f000250">Harry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000252">Sally Carrol.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">He felt a little hand insert itself into his.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“She was dark,</span>
   <span id="f000255">I think;</span>
   <span id="f000256">and she always wore her hair with a ribbon in it,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and gorgeous hoop-skirts of Alice blue and old rose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000260">she was sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000261">Harry!</span>
   <span id="f000262">And she was the sort of girl born to stand on a wide,</span>
   <span id="f000263">pillared porch and welcome folks in.</span>
   <span id="f000264">I think perhaps a lot of men went away to war meanin’ to come back to her;</span>
   <span id="f000265">but maybe none of ’em ever did.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">He stooped down close to the stone,</span>
   <span id="f000267">hunting for any record of marriage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“There’s nothing here to show.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Of course not.</span>
   <span id="f000270">How could there be anything there better than just ’Margery Lee,’ and that eloquent date?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">She drew close to him and an unexpected lump came into his throat as her yellow hair brushed his cheek.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">“You see how she was,</span>
   <span id="f000273">don’t you Harry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“I see,” he agreed gently.</span>
   <span id="f000275">“I see through your precious eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000276">You’re beautiful now,</span>
   <span id="f000277">so I know she must have been.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">Silent and close they stood,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and he could feel her shoulders trembling a little.</span>
   <span id="f000280">An ambling breeze swept up the hill and stirred the brim of her floppidy hat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“Let’s go down there!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">She was pointing to a flat stretch on the other side of the hill where along the green turf were a thousand grayish-white crosses stretching in endless,</span>
   <span id="f000283">ordered rows like the stacked arms of a battalion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">“Those are the Confederate dead,” said Sally Carrol simply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">They walked along and read the inscriptions,</span>
   <span id="f000286">always only a name and a date,</span>
   <span id="f000287">sometimes quite indecipherable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“The last row is the saddest – see,</span>
   <span id="f000289">’way over there.</span>
   <span id="f000290">Every cross has just a date on it and the word ’Unknown.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">She looked at him and her eyes brimmed with tears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“I can’t tell you how real it is to me,</span>
   <span id="f000293">darling – if you don’t know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“How you feel about it is beautiful to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000296">no,</span>
   <span id="f000297">it’s not me,</span>
   <span id="f000298">it’s them – that old time that I’ve tried to have live in me.</span>
   <span id="f000299">These were just men,</span>
   <span id="f000300">unimportant evidently or they wouldn’t have been ’unknown’;</span>
   <span id="f000301">but they died for the most beautiful thing in the world – the dead South.</span>
   <span id="f000302">You see,” she continued,</span>
   <span id="f000303">her voice still husky,</span>
   <span id="f000304">her eyes glistening with tears,</span>
   <span id="f000305">“people have these dreams they fasten onto things,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and I’ve always grown up with that dream.</span>
   <span id="f000307">It was so easy because it was all dead and there weren’t any disillusions comin’ to me.</span>
   <span id="f000308">I’ve tried in a way to live up to those past standards of noblesse oblige – there’s just the last remnants of it,</span>
   <span id="f000309">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000310">like the roses of an old garden dying all round us – streaks of strange courtliness and chivalry in some of these boys an’ stories I used to hear from a Confederate soldier who lived next door,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and a few old darkies.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000313">Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000314">there was something,</span>
   <span id="f000315">there was something!</span>
   <span id="f000316">I couldn’t ever make you understand but it was there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“I understand,” he assured her again quietly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">Sally Carol smiled and dried her eyes on the tip of a handkerchief protruding from his breast pocket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“You don’t feel depressed,</span>
   <span id="f000320">do you,</span>
   <span id="f000321">lover?</span>
   <span id="f000322">Even when I cry I’m happy here,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and I get a sort of strength from it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">Hand in hand they turned and walked slowly away.</span>
   <span id="f000325">Finding soft grass she drew him down to a seat beside her with their backs against the remnants of a low broken wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Wish those three old women would clear out,” he complained.</span>
   <span id="f000327">“I want to kiss you,</span>
   <span id="f000328">Sally Carrol.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">“Me,</span>
   <span id="f000330">too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">They waited impatiently for the three bent figures to move off,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and then she kissed him until the sky seemed to fade out and all her smiles and tears to vanish in an ecstasy of eternal seconds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">Afterward they walked slowly back together,</span>
   <span id="f000334">while on the corners twilight played at somnolent black-and-white checkers with the end of day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“You’ll be up about mid-January,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000336">“and you’ve got to stay a month at least.</span>
   <span id="f000337">It’ll be slick.</span>
   <span id="f000338">There’s a winter carnival on,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and if you’ve never really seen snow it’ll be like fairy-land to you.</span>
   <span id="f000340">There’ll be skating and skiing and tobogganing and sleigh-riding,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and all sorts of torchlight parades on snow-shoes.</span>
   <span id="f000342">They haven’t had one for years,</span>
   <span id="f000343">so they’re gong to make it a knock-out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">“Will I be cold,</span>
   <span id="f000345">Harry?” she asked suddenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">“You certainly won’t.</span>
   <span id="f000347">You may freeze your nose,</span>
   <span id="f000348">but you won’t be shivery cold.</span>
   <span id="f000349">It’s hard and dry,</span>
   <span id="f000350">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“I guess I’m a summer child.</span>
   <span id="f000352">I don’t like any cold I’ve ever seen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">She broke off and they were both silent for a minute.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">“Sally Carol,” he said very slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000355">“what do you say to – March?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“I say I love you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“March?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">“March,</span>
   <span id="f000359">Harry.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000360">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000361">All night in the Pullman it was very cold.</span>
   <span id="f000362">She rang for the porter to ask for another blanket,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and when he couldn’t give her one she tried vainly,</span>
   <span id="f000364">by squeezing down into the bottom of her berth and doubling back the bedclothes,</span>
   <span id="f000365">to snatch a few hours’ sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000366">She wanted to look her best in the morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">She rose at six and sliding uncomfortably into her clothes stumbled up to the diner for a cup of coffee.</span>
   <span id="f000368">The snow had filtered into the vestibules and covered the door with a slippery coating.</span>
   <span id="f000369">It was intriguing this cold,</span>
   <span id="f000370">it crept in everywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000371">Her breath was quite visible and she blew into the air with a naïve enjoyment.</span>
   <span id="f000372">Seated in the diner she stared out the window at white hills and valleys and scattered pines whose every branch was a green platter for a cold feast of snow.</span>
   <span id="f000373">Sometimes a solitary farmhouse would fly by,</span>
   <span id="f000374">ugly and bleak and lone on the white waste;</span>
   <span id="f000375">and with each one she had an instant of chill compassion for the souls shut in there waiting for spring.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">As she left the diner and swayed back into the Pullman she experienced a surging rush of energy and wondered if she was feeling the bracing air of which Harry had spoken.</span>
   <span id="f000377">This was the North,</span>
   <span id="f000378">the North – her land now!</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000379">“Then blow,</span>
   <span id="f000380">ye winds,</span>
   <span id="f000381">heighho!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000382">A-roving I will go,”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000383">she chanted exultantly to herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“What’s ’at?” inquired the porter politely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">“I said:</span>
   <span id="f000386">’Brush me off.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">The long wires of the telegraph poles doubled,</span>
   <span id="f000388">two tracks ran up beside the train – three – four;</span>
   <span id="f000389">came a succession of white-roofed houses,</span>
   <span id="f000390">a glimpse of a trolley-car with frosted windows,</span>
   <span id="f000391">streets – more streets – the city.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">She stood for a dazed moment in the frosty station before she saw three fur-bundled figures descending upon her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“There she is!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000395">Sally Carrol!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">Sally Carrol dropped her bag.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“Hi!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">A faintly familiar icy-cold face kissed her,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and then she was in a group of faces all apparently emitting great clouds of heavy smoke;</span>
   <span id="f000400">she was shaking hands.</span>
   <span id="f000401">There were Gordon,</span>
   <span id="f000402">a short,</span>
   <span id="f000403">eager man of thirty who looked like an amateur knocked-about model for Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000405">Myra,</span>
   <span id="f000406">a listless lady with flaxen hair under a fur automobile cap.</span>
   <span id="f000407">Almost immediately Sally Carrol thought of her as vaguely Scandinavian.</span>
   <span id="f000408">A cheerful chauffeur adopted her bag,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and amid ricochets of half-phrases,</span>
   <span id="f000410">exclamations and perfunctory listless “my dears” from Myra,</span>
   <span id="f000411">they swept each other from the station.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">Then they were in a sedan bound through a crooked succession of snowy streets where dozens of little boys were hitching sleds behind grocery wagons and automobiles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">“Oh,” cried Sally Carrol,</span>
   <span id="f000414">“I want to do that!</span>
   <span id="f000415">Can we Harry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">“That’s for kids.</span>
   <span id="f000417">But we might – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“It looks like such a circus!” she said regretfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">Home was a rambling frame house set on a white lap of snow,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and there she met a big,</span>
   <span id="f000421">gray-haired man of whom she approved,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and a lady who was like an egg,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and who kissed her – these were Harry’s parents.</span>
   <span id="f000424">There was a breathless indescribable hour crammed full of self-sentences,</span>
   <span id="f000425">hot water,</span>
   <span id="f000426">bacon and eggs and confusion;</span>
   <span id="f000427">and after that she was alone with Harry in the library,</span>
   <span id="f000428">asking him if she dared smoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">It was a large room with a Madonna over the fireplace and rows upon rows of books in covers of light gold and dark gold and shiny red.</span>
   <span id="f000430">All the chairs had little lace squares where one’s head should rest,</span>
   <span id="f000431">the couch was just comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000432">the books looked as if they had been read – some – and Sally Carrol had an instantaneous vision of the battered old library at home,</span>
   <span id="f000433">with her father’s huge medical books,</span>
   <span id="f000434">and the oil-paintings of her three great-uncles,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and the old couch that had been mended up for forty-five years and was still luxurious to dream in.</span>
   <span id="f000436">This room struck her as being neither attractive nor particularly otherwise.</span>
   <span id="f000437">It was simply a room with a lot of fairly expensive things in it that all looked about fifteen years old.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">“What do you think of it up here?” demanded Harry eagerly.</span>
   <span id="f000439">“Does it surprise you?</span>
   <span id="f000440">Is it what you expected I mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">“You are,</span>
   <span id="f000442">Harry,” she said quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and reached out her arms to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">But after a brief kiss he seemed to extort enthusiasm from her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“The town,</span>
   <span id="f000446">I mean.</span>
   <span id="f000447">Do you like it?</span>
   <span id="f000448">Can you feel the pep in the air?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000450">Harry,” she laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000451">“you’ll have to give me time.</span>
   <span id="f000452">You can’t just fling questions at me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">She puffed at her cigarette with a sigh of contentment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“One thing I want to ask you,” he began rather apologetically;</span>
   <span id="f000455">“you Southerners put quite an emphasis on family,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and all that – not that it isn’t quite all right,</span>
   <span id="f000457">but you’ll find it a little different here.</span>
   <span id="f000458">I mean – you’ll notice a lot of things that’ll seem to you sort of vulgar display at first,</span>
   <span id="f000459">Sally Carrol;</span>
   <span id="f000460">but just remember that this is a three-generation town.</span>
   <span id="f000461">Everybody has a father,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and about half of us have grandfathers.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Back of that we don’t go.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">“Of course,” she murmured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“Our grandfathers,</span>
   <span id="f000466">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000467">founded the place,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and a lot of them had to take some pretty queer jobs while they were doing the founding.</span>
   <span id="f000469">For instance there’s one woman who at present is about the social model for the town;</span>
   <span id="f000470">well,</span>
   <span id="f000471">her father was the first public ash man – things like that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">“Why,” said Sally Carol,</span>
   <span id="f000473">puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000474">“did you s’pose I was goin’ to make remarks about people?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“Not at all,” interrupted Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000476">“and I’m not apologizing for any one either.</span>
   <span id="f000477">It’s just that – well,</span>
   <span id="f000478">a Southern girl came up here last summer and said some unfortunate things,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000480">I just thought I’d tell you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">Sally Carrol felt suddenly indignant – as though she had been unjustly spanked – but Harry evidently considered the subject closed,</span>
   <span id="f000482">for he went on with a great surge of enthusiasm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">“It’s carnival time,</span>
   <span id="f000484">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000485">First in ten years.</span>
   <span id="f000486">And there’s an ice palace they’re building new that’s the first they’ve had since eighty-five.</span>
   <span id="f000487">Built out of blocks of the clearest ice they could find – on a tremendous scale.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">She rose and walking to the window pushed aside the heavy Turkish portières and looked out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">“Oh!” she cried suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f000490">“There’s two little boys makin’ a snow man!</span>
   <span id="f000491">Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000492">do you reckon I can go out an’ help ’em?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000493">“You dream!</span>
   <span id="f000494">Come here and kiss me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">She left the window rather reluctantly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“I don’t guess this is a very kissable climate,</span>
   <span id="f000497">is it?</span>
   <span id="f000498">I mean,</span>
   <span id="f000499">it makes you so you don’t want to sit round,</span>
   <span id="f000500">doesn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">“We’re not going to.</span>
   <span id="f000502">I’ve got a vacation for the first week you’re here,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and there’s a dinner-dance to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000505">Harry,” she confessed,</span>
   <span id="f000506">subsiding in a heap,</span>
   <span id="f000507">half in his lap,</span>
   <span id="f000508">half in the pillows,</span>
   <span id="f000509">“I sure do feel confused.</span>
   <span id="f000510">I haven’t got an idea whether I’ll like it or not,</span>
   <span id="f000511">an’ I don’t know what people expect,</span>
   <span id="f000512">or anythin’.</span>
   <span id="f000513">You’ll have to tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000514">honey.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">“I’ll tell you,” he said softly,</span>
   <span id="f000516">“if you’ll just tell me you’re glad to be here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">“Glad – just awful glad!” she whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000518">insinuating herself into his arms in her own peculiar way.</span>
   <span id="f000519">“Where you are is home for me,</span>
   <span id="f000520">Harry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">And as she said this she had the feeling for almost the first time in her life that she was acting a part.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">That night,</span>
   <span id="f000523">amid the gleaming candles of a dinner-party,</span>
   <span id="f000524">where the men seemed to do most of the talking while the girls sat in a haughty and expensive aloofness,</span>
   <span id="f000525">even Harry’s presence on her left failed to make her feel at home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“They’re a good-looking crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000527">don’t you think?” he demanded.</span>
   <span id="f000528">“Just look round.</span>
   <span id="f000529">There’s Spud Hubbard,</span>
   <span id="f000530">tackle at Princeton last year,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and Junie Morton – he and the red-haired fellow next to him were both Yale hockey captains;</span>
   <span id="f000532">Junie was in my class.</span>
   <span id="f000533">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000534">the best athletes in the world come from these States round here.</span>
   <span id="f000535">This is a man’s country,</span>
   <span id="f000536">I tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000537">Look at John J.</span>
   <span id="f000538">Fishburn!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">“Who’s he?” asked Sally Carrol innocently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“Don’t you know?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">“I’ve heard the name.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“Greatest wheat man in the Northwest,</span>
   <span id="f000543">and one of the greatest financiers in the country.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">She turned suddenly to a voice on her right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">“I guess they forget to introduce us.</span>
   <span id="f000546">My name’s Roger Patton.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">“My name is Sally Carrol Happer,” she said graciously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000549">I know.</span>
   <span id="f000550">Harry told me you were coming.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">“You a relative?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000553">I’m a professor.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">“Oh,” she laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“At the university.</span>
   <span id="f000556">You’re from the South,</span>
   <span id="f000557">aren’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000559">Tarleton,</span>
   <span id="f000560">Georgia.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">She liked him immediately – a reddish-brown mustache under watery blue eyes that had something in them that these other eyes lacked,</span>
   <span id="f000562">some quality of appreciation.</span>
   <span id="f000563">They exchanged stray sentences through dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000564">and she made up her mind to see him again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">After coffee she was introduced to numerous good-looking young men who danced with conscious precision and seemed to take it for granted that she wanted to talk about nothing except Harry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">“Heavens,” she thought,</span>
   <span id="f000567">“They talk as if my being engaged made me older than they are – as if I’d tell their mothers on them!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">In the South an engaged girl,</span>
   <span id="f000569">even a young married woman,</span>
   <span id="f000570">expected the same amount of half-affectionate badinage and flattery that would be accorded a débutante,</span>
   <span id="f000571">but here all that seemed banned.</span>
   <span id="f000572">One young man after getting well started on the subject of Sally Carrol’s eyes and,</span>
   <span id="f000573">how they had allured him ever since she entered the room,</span>
   <span id="f000574">went into a violent convulsion when he found she was visiting the Bellamys – was Harry’s fiancée.</span>
   <span id="f000575">He seemed to feel as though he had made some risqué and inexcusable blunder,</span>
   <span id="f000576">became immediately formal and left her at the first opportunity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">She was rather glad when Roger Patton cut in on her and suggested that they sit out a while.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000578">“Well,” he inquired,</span>
   <span id="f000579">blinking cheerily,</span>
   <span id="f000580">“how’s Carmen from the South?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">“Mighty fine.</span>
   <span id="f000582">How’s – how’s Dangerous Dan McGrew?</span>
   <span id="f000583">Sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000584">but he’s the only Northerner I know much about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">He seemed to enjoy that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“Of course,” he confessed,</span>
   <span id="f000587">“as a professor of literature I’m not supposed to have read Dangerous Dan McGrew.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">“Are you a native?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000590">I’m a Philadelphian.</span>
   <span id="f000591">Imported from Harvard to teach French.</span>
   <span id="f000592">But I’ve been here ten years.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">“Nine years,</span>
   <span id="f000594">three hundred an’ sixty-four days longer than me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">“Like it here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">“Uh-huh.</span>
   <span id="f000597">Sure do!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">“Really?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000600">why not?</span>
   <span id="f000601">Don’t I look as if I were havin’ a good time?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000602">“I saw you look out the window a minute ago – and shiver.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">“Just my imagination,” laughed Sally Carroll “I’m used to havin’ everythin’ quiet outside an’ sometimes I look out an’ see a flurry of snow an’ it’s just as if somethin’ dead was movin’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000604">He nodded appreciatively.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">“Ever been North before?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">“Spent two Julys in Asheville,</span>
   <span id="f000607">North Carolina.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000608">“Nice-looking crowd aren’t they?” suggested Patton,</span>
   <span id="f000609">indicating the swirling floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">Sally Carrol started.</span>
   <span id="f000611">This had been Harry’s remark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">“Sure are!</span>
   <span id="f000613">They’re – canine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000615">She flushed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">“I’m sorry;</span>
   <span id="f000617">that sounded worse than I meant it.</span>
   <span id="f000618">You see I always think of people as feline or canine,</span>
   <span id="f000619">irrespective of sex.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">“Which are you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">“I’m feline.</span>
   <span id="f000622">So are you.</span>
   <span id="f000623">So are most Southern men an’ most of these girls here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000624">“What’s Harry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">“Harry’s canine distinctly.</span>
   <span id="f000626">All the men I’ve to-night seem to be canine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">“What does canine imply?</span>
   <span id="f000628">A certain conscious masculinity as opposed to subtlety?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">“Reckon so.</span>
   <span id="f000630">I never analyzed it – only I just look at people an’ say ’canine’ or ’feline’ right off.</span>
   <span id="f000631">It’s right absurd I guess.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000632">“Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000633">I’m interested.</span>
   <span id="f000634">I used to have a theory about these people.</span>
   <span id="f000635">I think they’re freezing up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000637">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000638">they’re growing’ like Swedes – Ibsenesque,</span>
   <span id="f000639">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000640">Very gradually getting gloomy and melancholy.</span>
   <span id="f000641">It’s these long winters.</span>
   <span id="f000642">Ever read Ibsen?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">She shook her head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000645">you find in his characters a certain brooding rigidity.</span>
   <span id="f000646">They’re righteous,</span>
   <span id="f000647">narrow,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and cheerless,</span>
   <span id="f000649">without infinite possibilities for great sorrow or joy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">“Without smiles or tears?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">“Exactly.</span>
   <span id="f000652">That’s my theory.</span>
   <span id="f000653">You see there are thousands of Swedes up here.</span>
   <span id="f000654">They come,</span>
   <span id="f000655">I imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000656">because the climate is very much like their own,</span>
   <span id="f000657">and there’s been a gradual mingling.</span>
   <span id="f000658">There’re probably not half a dozen here to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000659">but – we’ve had four Swedish governors.</span>
   <span id="f000660">Am I boring you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000661">“I’m mighty interested.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">“Your future sister-in-law is half Swedish.</span>
   <span id="f000663">Personally I like her,</span>
   <span id="f000664">but my theory is that Swedes react rather badly on us as a whole.</span>
   <span id="f000665">Scandinavians,</span>
   <span id="f000666">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000667">have the largest suicide rate in the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">“Why do you live here if it’s so depressing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000670">it doesn’t get me.</span>
   <span id="f000671">I’m pretty well cloistered,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and I suppose books mean more than people to me anyway.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“But writers all speak about the South being tragic.</span>
   <span id="f000674">You know – Spanish señoritas,</span>
   <span id="f000675">black hair and daggers an’ haunting music.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">He shook his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000678">the Northern races are the tragic races – they don’t indulge in the cheering luxury of tears.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">Sally Carrol thought of her graveyard.</span>
   <span id="f000680">She supposed that that was vaguely what she had meant when she said it didn’t depress her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“The Italians are about the gayest people in the world – but it’s a dull subject,” he broke off.</span>
   <span id="f000682">“Anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000683">I want to tell you you’re marrying a pretty fine man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000684">Sally Carrol was moved by an impulse of confidence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">“I know.</span>
   <span id="f000686">I’m the sort of person who wants to be taken care of after a certain point,</span>
   <span id="f000687">and I feel sure I will be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">“Shall we dance?</span>
   <span id="f000689">You know,” he continued as they rose,</span>
   <span id="f000690">“it’s encouraging to find a girl who knows what she’s marrying for.</span>
   <span id="f000691">Nine-tenths of them think of it as a sort of walking into a moving-picture sunset.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">She laughed and liked him immensely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000693">Two hours later on the way home she nestled near Harry in the back seat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000695">Harry,” she whispered “it’s so co-old!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">“But it’s warm in here,</span>
   <span id="f000697">daring girl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">“But outside it’s cold;</span>
   <span id="f000699">and oh,</span>
   <span id="f000700">that howling wind!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">She buried her face deep in his fur coat and trembled involuntarily as his cold lips kissed the tip of her ear.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000702">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000703">The first week of her visit passed in a whirl.</span>
   <span id="f000704">She had her promised toboggan-ride at the back of an automobile through a chill January twilight.</span>
   <span id="f000705">Swathed in furs she put in a morning tobogganing on the country-club hill;</span>
   <span id="f000706">even tried skiing,</span>
   <span id="f000707">to sail through the air for a glorious moment and then land in a tangled laughing bundle on a soft snow-drift.</span>
   <span id="f000708">She liked all the winter sports,</span>
   <span id="f000709">except an afternoon spent snow-shoeing over a glaring plain under pale yellow sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000710">but she soon realized that these things were for children – that she was being humored and that the enjoyment round her was only a reflection of her own.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">At first the Bellamy family puzzled her.</span>
   <span id="f000712">The men were reliable and she liked them;</span>
   <span id="f000713">to Mr.&#160;Bellamy especially,</span>
   <span id="f000714">with his iron-gray hair and energetic dignity,</span>
   <span id="f000715">she took an immediate fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000716">once she found that he was born in Kentucky;</span>
   <span id="f000717">this made of him a link between the old life and the new.</span>
   <span id="f000718">But toward the women she felt a definite hostility.</span>
   <span id="f000719">Myra,</span>
   <span id="f000720">her future sister-in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000721">seemed the essence of spiritless conversationality.</span>
   <span id="f000722">Her conversation was so utterly devoid of personality that Sally Carrol,</span>
   <span id="f000723">who came from a country where a certain amount of charm and assurance could be taken for granted in the women,</span>
   <span id="f000724">was inclined to despise her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“If those women aren’t beautiful,” she thought,</span>
   <span id="f000726">“they’re nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000727">They just fade out when you look at them.</span>
   <span id="f000728">They’re glorified domestics.</span>
   <span id="f000729">Men are the centre of every mixed group.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">Lastly there was Mrs.&#160;Bellamy,</span>
   <span id="f000731">whom Sally Carrol detested.</span>
   <span id="f000732">The first day’s impression of an egg had been confirmed – an egg with a cracked,</span>
   <span id="f000733">veiny voice and such an ungracious dumpiness of carriage that Sally Carrol felt that if she once fell she would surely scramble.</span>
   <span id="f000734">In addition,</span>
   <span id="f000735">Mrs.&#160;Bellamy seemed to typify the town in being innately hostile to strangers.</span>
   <span id="f000736">She called Sally Carrol “Sally,” and could not be persuaded that the double name was anything more than a tedious ridiculous nickname.</span>
   <span id="f000737">To Sally Carrol this shortening of her name was presenting her to the public half clothed.</span>
   <span id="f000738">She loved “Sally Carrol”;</span>
   <span id="f000739">she loathed “Sally.” She knew also that Harry’s mother disapproved of her bobbed hair;</span>
   <span id="f000740">and she had never dared smoke down-stairs after that first day when Mrs.&#160;Bellamy had come into the library sniffing violently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000741">Of all the men she met she preferred Roger Patton,</span>
   <span id="f000742">who was a frequent visitor at the house.</span>
   <span id="f000743">He never again alluded to the Ibsenesque tendency of the populace,</span>
   <span id="f000744">but when he came in one day and found her curled upon the sofa bent over “Peer Gynt” he laughed and told her to forget what he’d said – that it was all rot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">They had been walking homeward between mounds of high-piled snow and under a sun which Sally Carrol scarcely recognized.</span>
   <span id="f000746">They passed a little girl done up in gray wool until she resembled a small Teddy bear,</span>
   <span id="f000747">and Sally Carrol could not resist a gasp of maternal appreciation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000748">“Look!</span>
   <span id="f000749">Harry!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000751">“That little girl – did you see her face?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000753">why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“It was red as a little strawberry.</span>
   <span id="f000755">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000756">she was cute!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000758">your own face is almost as red as that already!</span>
   <span id="f000759">Everybody’s healthy here.</span>
   <span id="f000760">We’re out in the cold as soon as we’re old enough to walk.</span>
   <span id="f000761">Wonderful climate!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">She looked at him and had to agree.</span>
   <span id="f000763">He was mighty healthy-looking;</span>
   <span id="f000764">so was his brother.</span>
   <span id="f000765">And she had noticed the new red in her own cheeks that very morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000766">Suddenly their glances were caught and held,</span>
   <span id="f000767">and they stared for a moment at the street-corner ahead of them.</span>
   <span id="f000768">A man was standing there,</span>
   <span id="f000769">his knees bent,</span>
   <span id="f000770">his eyes gazing upward with a tense expression as though he were about to make a leap toward the chilly sky.</span>
   <span id="f000771">And then they both exploded into a shout of laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000772">for coming closer they discovered it had been a ludicrous momentary illusion produced by the extreme bagginess of the man’s trousers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000773">“Reckon that’s one on us,” she laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000774">“He must be Southerner,</span>
   <span id="f000775">judging by those trousers,” suggested Harry mischievously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000776">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000777">Harry!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">Her surprised look must have irritated him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">“Those damn Southerners!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000780">Sally Carrol’s eyes flashed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000781">“Don’t call ’em that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000782">“I’m sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000783">dear,” said Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000784">malignantly apologetic,</span>
   <span id="f000785">“but you know what I think of them.</span>
   <span id="f000786">They’re sort of – sort of degenerates – not at all like the old Southerners.</span>
   <span id="f000787">They’ve lived so long down there with all the colored people that they’ve gotten lazy and shiftless.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000788">“Hush your mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000789">Harry!” she cried angrily.</span>
   <span id="f000790">“They’re not!</span>
   <span id="f000791">They may be lazy – anybody would be in that climate – but they’re my best friends,</span>
   <span id="f000792">an’ I don’t want to hear ’em criticised in any such sweepin’ way.</span>
   <span id="f000793">Some of ’em are the finest men in the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000795">I know.</span>
   <span id="f000796">They’re all right when they come North to college,</span>
   <span id="f000797">but of all the hangdog,</span>
   <span id="f000798">ill-dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000799">slovenly lot I ever saw,</span>
   <span id="f000800">a bunch of small-town Southerners are the worst!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000801">Sally Carrol was clinching her gloved hands and biting her lip furiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“Why,” continued Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000803">“if there was one in my class at New Haven,</span>
   <span id="f000804">and we all thought that at last we’d found the true type of Southern aristocrat,</span>
   <span id="f000805">but it turned out that he wasn’t an aristocrat at all – just the son of a Northern carpetbagger,</span>
   <span id="f000806">who owned about all the cotton round Mobile.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000807">“A Southerner wouldn’t talk the way you’re talking now,” she said evenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">“They haven’t the energy!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">“Or the somethin’ else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">“I’m sorry Sally Carrol,</span>
   <span id="f000811">but I’ve heard you say yourself that you’d never marry – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000812">“That’s quite different.</span>
   <span id="f000813">I told you I wouldn’t want to tie my life to any of the boys that are round Tarleton now,</span>
   <span id="f000814">but I never made any sweepin’ generalities.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">They walked along in silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000816">“I probably spread it on a bit thick Sally Carrol.</span>
   <span id="f000817">I’m sorry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000818">She nodded but made no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000819">Five minutes later as they stood in the hallway she suddenly threw her arms round him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000821">Harry,” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000822">her eyes brimming with tears;</span>
   <span id="f000823">“let’s get married next week.</span>
   <span id="f000824">I’m afraid of having fusses like that.</span>
   <span id="f000825">I’m afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000826">Harry.</span>
   <span id="f000827">It wouldn’t be that way if we were married.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000828">But Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000829">being in the wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000830">was still irritated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000831">“That’d be idiotic.</span>
   <span id="f000832">We decided on March.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000833">The tears in Sally Carrol’s eyes faded;</span>
   <span id="f000834">her expression hardened slightly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000835">“Very well – I suppose I shouldn’t have said that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">Harry melted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">“Dear little nut!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000838">“Come and kiss me and let’s forget.” That very night at the end of a vaudeville performance the orchestra played “Dixie” and Sally Carrol felt something stronger and more enduring than her tears and smiles of the day brim up inside her.</span>
   <span id="f000839">She leaned forward gripping the arms of her chair until her face grew crimson.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000840">“Sort of get you dear?” whispered Harry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000841">But she did not hear him.</span>
   <span id="f000842">To the limited throb of the violins and the inspiring beat of the kettle-drums her own old ghosts were marching by and on into the darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000843">and as fifes whistled and sighed in the low encore they seemed so nearly out of sight that she could have waved good-by.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000844">“Away,</span>
   <span id="f000845">Away,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000846">Away down South in Dixie!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000847">Away,</span>
   <span id="f000848">away,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000849">Away down South in Dixie!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000850">V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000851">It was a particularly cold night.</span>
   <span id="f000852">A sudden thaw had nearly cleared the streets the day before,</span>
   <span id="f000853">but now they were traversed again with a powdery wraith of loose snow that travelled in wavy lines before the feet of the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000854">and filled the lower air with a fine-particled mist.</span>
   <span id="f000855">There was no sky – only a dark,</span>
   <span id="f000856">ominous tent that draped in the tops of the streets and was in reality a vast approaching army of snowflakes – while over it all,</span>
   <span id="f000857">chilling away the comfort from the brown-and-green glow of lighted windows and muffling the steady trot of the horse pulling their sleigh,</span>
   <span id="f000858">interminably washed the north wind.</span>
   <span id="f000859">It was a dismal town after all,</span>
   <span id="f000860">she though,</span>
   <span id="f000861">dismal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000862">Sometimes at night it had seemed to her as though no one lived here – they had all gone long ago – leaving lighted houses to be covered in time by tombing heaps of sleet.</span>
   <span id="f000863">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000864">if there should be snow on her grave!</span>
   <span id="f000865">To be beneath great piles of it all winter long,</span>
   <span id="f000866">where even her headstone would be a light shadow against light shadows.</span>
   <span id="f000867">Her grave – a grave that should be flower-strewn and washed with sun and rain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000868">She thought again of those isolated country houses that her train had passed,</span>
   <span id="f000869">and of the life there the long winter through – the ceaseless glare through the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000870">the crust forming on the soft drifts of snow,</span>
   <span id="f000871">finally the slow cheerless melting and the harsh spring of which Roger Patton had told her.</span>
   <span id="f000872">Her spring – to lose it forever – with its lilacs and the lazy sweetness it stirred in her heart.</span>
   <span id="f000873">She was laying away that spring – afterward she would lay away that sweetness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000874">With a gradual insistence the storm broke.</span>
   <span id="f000875">Sally Carrol felt a film of flakes melt quickly on her eyelashes,</span>
   <span id="f000876">and Harry reached over a furry arm and drew down her complicated flannel cap.</span>
   <span id="f000877">Then the small flakes came in skirmish-line,</span>
   <span id="f000878">and the horse bent his neck patiently as a transparency of white appeared momentarily on his coat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000879">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000880">he’s cold,</span>
   <span id="f000881">Harry,” she said quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">“Who?</span>
   <span id="f000883">The horse?</span>
   <span id="f000884">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000885">no,</span>
   <span id="f000886">he isn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000887">He likes it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">After another ten minutes they turned a corner and came in sight of their destination.</span>
   <span id="f000889">On a tall hill outlined in vivid glaring green against the wintry sky stood the ice palace.</span>
   <span id="f000890">It was three stories in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000891">with battlements and embrasures and narrow icicled windows,</span>
   <span id="f000892">and the innumerable electric lights inside made a gorgeous transparency of the great central hall.</span>
   <span id="f000893">Sally Carrol clutched Harry’s hand under the fur robe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000894">“It’s beautiful!” he cried excitedly.</span>
   <span id="f000895">“My golly,</span>
   <span id="f000896">it’s beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000897">isn’t it!</span>
   <span id="f000898">They haven’t had one here since eighty-five!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000899">Somehow the notion of there not having been one since eighty-five oppressed her.</span>
   <span id="f000900">Ice was a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000901">and this mansion of it was surely peopled by those shades of the eighties,</span>
   <span id="f000902">with pale faces and blurred snow-filled hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000903">“Come on,</span>
   <span id="f000904">dear,” said Harry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">She followed him out of the sleigh and waited while he hitched the horse.</span>
   <span id="f000906">A party of four – Gordon,</span>
   <span id="f000907">Myra,</span>
   <span id="f000908">Roger Patton,</span>
   <span id="f000909">and another girl – drew up beside them with a mighty jingle of bells.</span>
   <span id="f000910">There were quite a crowd already,</span>
   <span id="f000911">bundled in fur or sheepskin,</span>
   <span id="f000912">shouting and calling to each other as they moved through the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000913">which was now so thick that people could scarcely be distinguished a few yards away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000914">“It’s a hundred and seventy feet tall,” Harry was saying to a muffled figure beside him as they trudged toward the entrance;</span>
   <span id="f000915">“covers six thousand square yards.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000916">She caught snatches of conversation:</span>
   <span id="f000917">“One main hall” – “walls twenty to forty inches thick” – “and the ice cave has almost a mile of – ” – “this Canuck who built it – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000918">They found their way inside,</span>
   <span id="f000919">and dazed by the magic of the great crystal walls Sally Carrol found herself repeating over and over two lines from “Kubla Khan”:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000920">“It was a miracle of rare device,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000921">A sunny pleasure-dome with caves of ice!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000922">In the great glittering cavern with the dark shut out she took a seat on a wooded bench and the evening’s oppression lifted.</span>
   <span id="f000923">Harry was right – it was beautiful;</span>
   <span id="f000924">and her gaze travelled the smooth surface of the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000925">the blocks for which had been selected for their purity and dearness to obtain this opalescent,</span>
   <span id="f000926">translucent effect.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000927">“Look!</span>
   <span id="f000928">Here we go – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000929">boy!” cried Harry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000930">A band in a far corner struck up “Hail,</span>
   <span id="f000931">Hail,</span>
   <span id="f000932">the Gang’s All Here!” which echoed over to them in wild muddled acoustics,</span>
   <span id="f000933">and then the lights suddenly went out;</span>
   <span id="f000934">silence seemed to flow down the icy sides and sweep over them.</span>
   <span id="f000935">Sally Carrol could still see her white breath in the darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000936">and a dim row of pale faces over on the other side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">The music eased to a sighing complaint,</span>
   <span id="f000938">and from outside drifted in the full-throated remnant chant of the marching clubs.</span>
   <span id="f000939">It grew louder like some pæan of a viking tribe traversing an ancient wild;</span>
   <span id="f000940">it swelled – they were coming nearer;</span>
   <span id="f000941">then a row of torches appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000942">and another and another,</span>
   <span id="f000943">and keeping time with their moccasined feet a long column of gray-mackinawed figures swept in,</span>
   <span id="f000944">snow-shoes slung at their shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000945">torches soaring and flickering as their voice rose along the great walls.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000946">The gray column ended and another followed,</span>
   <span id="f000947">the light streaming luridly this time over red toboggan caps and flaming crimson mackinaws,</span>
   <span id="f000948">and as they entered they took up the refrain;</span>
   <span id="f000949">then came a long platoon of blue and white,</span>
   <span id="f000950">of green,</span>
   <span id="f000951">of white,</span>
   <span id="f000952">of brown and yellow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">“Those white ones are the Wacouta Club,” whispered Harry eagerly.</span>
   <span id="f000954">“Those are the men you’ve met round at dances.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000955">The volume of the voices grew;</span>
   <span id="f000956">the great cavern was a phantasmagoria of torches waving in great banks of fire,</span>
   <span id="f000957">of colors and the rhythm of soft-leather steps.</span>
   <span id="f000958">The leading column turned and halted,</span>
   <span id="f000959">platoon deploys in front of platoon until the whole procession made a solid flag of flame,</span>
   <span id="f000960">and then from thousands of voices burst a mighty shout that filled the air like a crash of thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000961">and sent the torches wavering.</span>
   <span id="f000962">It was magnificent,</span>
   <span id="f000963">it was tremendous!</span>
   <span id="f000964">To Sally Carol it was the North offering sacrifice on some mighty altar to the gray pagan God of Snow.</span>
   <span id="f000965">As the shout died the band struck up again and there came more singing,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and then long reverberating cheers by each club.</span>
   <span id="f000967">She sat very quiet listening while the staccato cries rent the stillness;</span>
   <span id="f000968">and then she started,</span>
   <span id="f000969">for there was a volley of explosion,</span>
   <span id="f000970">and great clouds of smoke went up here and there through the cavern – the flash-light photographers at work – and the council was over.</span>
   <span id="f000971">With the band at their head the clubs formed in column once more,</span>
   <span id="f000972">took up their chant,</span>
   <span id="f000973">and began to march out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000974">“Come on!” shouted Harry.</span>
   <span id="f000975">“We want to see the labyrinths down-stairs before they turn the lights off!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000976">They all rose and started toward the chute – Harry and Sally Carrol in the lead,</span>
   <span id="f000977">her little mitten buried in his big fur gantlet.</span>
   <span id="f000978">At the bottom of the chute was a long empty room of ice,</span>
   <span id="f000979">with the ceiling so low that they had to stoop – and their hands were parted.</span>
   <span id="f000980">Before she realized what he intended Harry had darted down one of the half-dozen glittering passages that opened into the room and was only a vague receding blot against the green shimmer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“Harry!” she called.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000982">“Come on!” he cried back.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000983">She looked round the empty chamber;</span>
   <span id="f000984">the rest of the party had evidently decided to go home,</span>
   <span id="f000985">were already outside somewhere in the blundering snow.</span>
   <span id="f000986">She hesitated and then darted in after Harry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000987">“Harry!” she shouted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000988">She had reached a turning-point thirty feet down;</span>
   <span id="f000989">she heard a faint muffled answer far to the left,</span>
   <span id="f000990">and with a touch of panic fled toward it.</span>
   <span id="f000991">She passed another turning,</span>
   <span id="f000992">two more yawning alleys.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000993">“Harry!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000994">No answer.</span>
   <span id="f000995">She started to run straight forward,</span>
   <span id="f000996">and then turned like lightning and sped back the way she had come,</span>
   <span id="f000997">enveloped in a sudden icy terror.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000998">She reached a turn – was it here?</span>
   <span id="f000999">– took the left and came to what should have been the outlet into the long,</span>
   <span id="f001000">low room,</span>
   <span id="f001001">but it was only another glittering passage with darkness at the end.</span>
   <span id="f001002">She called again,</span>
   <span id="f001003">but the walls gave back a flat,</span>
   <span id="f001004">lifeless echo with no reverberations.</span>
   <span id="f001005">Retracing her steps she turned another corner,</span>
   <span id="f001006">this time following a wide passage.</span>
   <span id="f001007">It was like the green lane between the parted water of the Red Sea,</span>
   <span id="f001008">like a damp vault connecting empty tombs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001009">She slipped a little now as she walked,</span>
   <span id="f001010">for ice had formed on the bottom of her overshoes;</span>
   <span id="f001011">she had to run her gloves along the half-slippery,</span>
   <span id="f001012">half-sticky walls to keep her balance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">“Harry!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001014">Still no answer.</span>
   <span id="f001015">The sound she made bounced mockingly down to the end of the passage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001016">Then on an instant the lights went out,</span>
   <span id="f001017">and she was in complete darkness.</span>
   <span id="f001018">She gave a small,</span>
   <span id="f001019">frightened cry,</span>
   <span id="f001020">and sank down into a cold little heap on the ice.</span>
   <span id="f001021">She felt her left knee do something as she fell,</span>
   <span id="f001022">but she scarcely noticed it as some deep terror far greater than any fear of being lost settled upon her.</span>
   <span id="f001023">She was alone with this presence that came out of the North,</span>
   <span id="f001024">the dreary loneliness that rose from ice-bound whalers in the Arctic seas,</span>
   <span id="f001025">from smokeless,</span>
   <span id="f001026">trackless wastes where were strewn the whitened bones of adventure.</span>
   <span id="f001027">It was an icy breath of death;</span>
   <span id="f001028">it was rolling down low across the land to clutch at her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001029">With a furious,</span>
   <span id="f001030">despairing energy she rose again and started blindly down the darkness.</span>
   <span id="f001031">She must get out.</span>
   <span id="f001032">She might be lost in here for days,</span>
   <span id="f001033">freeze to death and lie embedded in the ice like corpses she had read of,</span>
   <span id="f001034">kept perfectly preserved until the melting of a glacier.</span>
   <span id="f001035">Harry probably thought she had left with the others – he had gone by now;</span>
   <span id="f001036">no one would know until next day.</span>
   <span id="f001037">She reached pitifully for the wall.</span>
   <span id="f001038">Forty inches thick,</span>
   <span id="f001039">they had said – forty inches thick!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001040">On both sides of her along the walls she felt things creeping,</span>
   <span id="f001041">damp souls that haunted this palace,</span>
   <span id="f001042">this town,</span>
   <span id="f001043">this North.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001044">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001045">send somebody – send somebody!” she cried aloud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001046">Clark Darrow – he would understand;</span>
   <span id="f001047">or Joe Ewing;</span>
   <span id="f001048">she couldn’t be left here to wander forever – to be frozen,</span>
   <span id="f001049">heart,</span>
   <span id="f001050">body,</span>
   <span id="f001051">and soul.</span>
   <span id="f001052">This her – this Sally Carrol!</span>
   <span id="f001053">Why,</span>
   <span id="f001054">she was a happy thing.</span>
   <span id="f001055">She was a happy little girl.</span>
   <span id="f001056">She liked warmth and summer and Dixie.</span>
   <span id="f001057">These things were foreign – foreign.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001058">“You’re not crying,” something said aloud.</span>
   <span id="f001059">“You’ll never cry any more.</span>
   <span id="f001060">Your tears would just freeze;</span>
   <span id="f001061">all tears freeze up here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001062">She sprawled full length on the ice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001063">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001064">God!” she faltered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001065">A long single file of minutes went by,</span>
   <span id="f001066">and with a great weariness she felt her eyes dosing.</span>
   <span id="f001067">Then some one seemed to sit down near her and take her face in warm,</span>
   <span id="f001068">soft hands.</span>
   <span id="f001069">She looked up gratefully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001070">“Why it’s Margery Lee,” she crooned softly to herself.</span>
   <span id="f001071">“I knew you’d come.” It really was Margery Lee,</span>
   <span id="f001072">and she was just as Sally Carrol had known she would be,</span>
   <span id="f001073">with a young,</span>
   <span id="f001074">white brow,</span>
   <span id="f001075">and wide welcoming eyes,</span>
   <span id="f001076">and a hoop-skirt of some soft material that was quite comforting to rest on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001077">“Margery Lee.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001078">It was getting darker now and darker – all those tombstones ought to be repainted sure enough,</span>
   <span id="f001079">only that would spoil ’em,</span>
   <span id="f001080">of course.</span>
   <span id="f001081">Still,</span>
   <span id="f001082">you ought to be able to see ’em.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001083">Then after a succession of moments that went fast and then slow,</span>
   <span id="f001084">but seemed to be ultimately resolving themselves into a multitude of blurred rays converging toward a pale-yellow sun,</span>
   <span id="f001085">she heard a great cracking noise break her new-found stillness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001086">It was the sun,</span>
   <span id="f001087">it was a light;</span>
   <span id="f001088">a torch,</span>
   <span id="f001089">and a torch beyond that,</span>
   <span id="f001090">and another one,</span>
   <span id="f001091">and voices;</span>
   <span id="f001092">a face took flesh below the torch,</span>
   <span id="f001093">heavy arms raised her and she felt something on her cheek – it felt wet.</span>
   <span id="f001094">Some one had seized her and was rubbing her face with snow.</span>
   <span id="f001095">How ridiculous – with snow!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001096">“Sally Carrol!</span>
   <span id="f001097">Sally Carrol!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001098">It was Dangerous Dan McGrew;</span>
   <span id="f001099">and two other faces she didn’t know.</span>
   <span id="f001100">“Child,</span>
   <span id="f001101">child!</span>
   <span id="f001102">We’ve been looking for you two hours!</span>
   <span id="f001103">Harry’s half-crazy!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001104">Things came rushing back into place – the singing,</span>
   <span id="f001105">the torches,</span>
   <span id="f001106">the great shout of the marching clubs.</span>
   <span id="f001107">She squirmed in Patton’s arms and gave a long low cry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001108">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001109">I want to get out of here!</span>
   <span id="f001110">I’m going back home.</span>
   <span id="f001111">Take me home” – her voice rose to a scream that sent a chill to Harry’s heart as he came racing down the next passage – “to-morrow!” she cried with delirious,</span>
   <span id="f001112">unstrained passion – “To-morrow!</span>
   <span id="f001113">To-morrow!</span>
   <span id="f001114">To-morrow!”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f001115">VI</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f001116">The wealth of golden sunlight poured a quite enervating yet oddly comforting heat over the house where day long it faced the dusty stretch of road.</span>
   <span id="f001117">Two birds were making a great to-do in a cool spot found among the branches of a tree next door,</span>
   <span id="f001118">and down the street a colored woman was announcing herself melodiously as a purveyor of strawberries.</span>
   <span id="f001119">It was April afternoon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001120">Sally Carrol Happer,</span>
   <span id="f001121">resting her chin on her arm,</span>
   <span id="f001122">and her arm on an old window-seat,</span>
   <span id="f001123">gazed sleepily down over the spangled dust whence the heat waves were rising for the first time this spring.</span>
   <span id="f001124">She was watching a very ancient Ford turn a perilous corner and rattle and groan to a jolting stop at the end of the walk.</span>
   <span id="f001125">See made no sound and in a minute a strident familiar whistle rent the air.</span>
   <span id="f001126">Sally Carrol smiled and blinked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001127">“Good mawnin’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001128">A head appeared tortuously from under the car-top below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001129">“Tain’t mawnin’,</span>
   <span id="f001130">Sally Carrol.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001131">“Sure enough!” she said in affected surprise.</span>
   <span id="f001132">“I guess maybe not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001133">“What you doin’?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001134">“Eatin’ a green peach.</span>
   <span id="f001135">’Spect to die any minute.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001136">Clark twisted himself a last impossible notch to get a view of her face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001137">“Water’s warm as a kettla steam,</span>
   <span id="f001138">Sally Carol.</span>
   <span id="f001139">Wanta go swimmin’?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001140">“Hate to move,” sighed Sally Carol lazily,</span>
   <span id="f001141">“but I reckon so.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

