<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This LibriVox recording is in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />John Greenman</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000002">The Californian’s Tale</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000003">by<br />Mark Twain</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000004">Thirty-five years ago I was out prospecting on the Stanislaus,</span>
   <span id="f000005">tramping all day long with pick and pan and horn,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and washing a hatful of dirt here and there,</span>
   <span id="f000007">always expecting to make a rich strike,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and never doing it.</span>
   <span id="f000009">It was a lovely region,</span>
   <span id="f000010">woodsy,</span>
   <span id="f000011">balmy,</span>
   <span id="f000012">delicious,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and had once been populous,</span>
   <span id="f000014">long years before,</span>
   <span id="f000015">but now the people had vanished and the charming paradise was a solitude.</span>
   <span id="f000016">They went away when the surface diggings gave out.</span>
   <span id="f000017">In one place,</span>
   <span id="f000018">where a busy little city with banks and newspapers and fire companies and a mayor and aldermen had been,</span>
   <span id="f000019">was nothing but a wide expanse of emerald turf,</span>
   <span id="f000020">with not even the faintest sign that human life had ever been present there.</span>
   <span id="f000021">This was down toward Tuttletown.</span>
   <span id="f000022">In the country neighborhood thereabouts,</span>
   <span id="f000023">along the dusty roads,</span>
   <span id="f000024">one found at intervals the prettiest little cottage homes,</span>
   <span id="f000025">snug and cozy,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and so cobwebbed with vines snowed thick with roses that the doors and windows were wholly hidden from sight – sign that these were deserted homes,</span>
   <span id="f000027">forsaken years ago by defeated and disappointed families who could neither sell them nor give them away.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000029">half an hour apart,</span>
   <span id="f000030">one came across solitary log cabins of the earliest mining days,</span>
   <span id="f000031">built by the first gold-miners,</span>
   <span id="f000032">the predecessors of the cottage-builders.</span>
   <span id="f000033">In some few cases these cabins were still occupied;</span>
   <span id="f000034">and when this was so,</span>
   <span id="f000035">you could depend upon it that the occupant was the very pioneer who had built the cabin;</span>
   <span id="f000036">and you could depend on another thing,</span>
   <span id="f000037">too – that he was there because he had once had his opportunity to go home to the States rich,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and had not done it;</span>
   <span id="f000039">had rather lost his wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and had then in his humiliation resolved to sever all communication with his home relatives and friends,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and be to them thenceforth as one dead.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Round about California in that day were scattered a host of these living dead men – pride-smitten poor fellows,</span>
   <span id="f000043">grizzled and old at forty,</span>
   <span id="f000044">whose secret thoughts were made all of regrets and longings – regrets for their wasted lives,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and longings to be out of the struggle and done with it all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">It was a lonesome land!</span>
   <span id="f000047">Not a sound in all those peaceful expanses of grass and woods but the drowsy hum of insects;</span>
   <span id="f000048">no glimpse of man or beast;</span>
   <span id="f000049">nothing to keep up your spirits and make you glad to be alive.</span>
   <span id="f000050">And so,</span>
   <span id="f000051">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000052">in the early part of the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000053">when I caught sight of a human creature,</span>
   <span id="f000054">I felt a most grateful uplift.</span>
   <span id="f000055">This person was a man about forty-five years old,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and he was standing at the gate of one of those cozy little rose-clad cottages of the sort already referred to.</span>
   <span id="f000057">However,</span>
   <span id="f000058">this one hadn’t a deserted look;</span>
   <span id="f000059">it had the look of being lived in and petted and cared for and looked after;</span>
   <span id="f000060">and so had its front yard,</span>
   <span id="f000061">which was a garden of flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000062">abundant,</span>
   <span id="f000063">gay,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and flourishing.</span>
   <span id="f000065">I was invited in,</span>
   <span id="f000066">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and required to make myself at home – it was the custom of the country.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">It was delightful to be in such a place,</span>
   <span id="f000069">after long weeks of daily and nightly familiarity with miners’ cabins – with all which this implies of dirt floor,</span>
   <span id="f000070">never-made beds,</span>
   <span id="f000071">tin plates and cups,</span>
   <span id="f000072">bacon and beans and black coffee,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and nothing of ornament but war pictures from the Eastern illustrated papers tacked to the log walls.</span>
   <span id="f000074">That was all hard,</span>
   <span id="f000075">cheerless,</span>
   <span id="f000076">materialistic desolation,</span>
   <span id="f000077">but here was a nest which had aspects to rest the tired eye and refresh that something in one’s nature which,</span>
   <span id="f000078">after long fasting,</span>
   <span id="f000079">recognizes,</span>
   <span id="f000080">when confronted by the belongings of art,</span>
   <span id="f000081">howsoever cheap and modest they may be,</span>
   <span id="f000082">that it has unconsciously been famishing and now has found nourishment.</span>
   <span id="f000083">I could not have believed that a rag carpet could feast me so,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and so content me;</span>
   <span id="f000085">or that there could be such solace to the soul in wall-paper and framed lithographs,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and bright-colored tidies and lamp-mats,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and Windsor chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and varnished what-nots,</span>
   <span id="f000089">with sea-shells and books and china vases on them,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and the score of little unclassifiable tricks and touches that a woman’s hand distributes about a home,</span>
   <span id="f000091">which one sees without knowing he sees them,</span>
   <span id="f000092">yet would miss in a moment if they were taken away.</span>
   <span id="f000093">The delight that was in my heart showed in my face,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and the man saw it and was pleased;</span>
   <span id="f000095">saw it so plainly that he answered it as if it had been spoken.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“All her work,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000097">caressingly;</span>
   <span id="f000098">“she did it all herself – every bit,” and he took the room in with a glance which was full of affectionate worship.</span>
   <span id="f000099">One of those soft Japanese fabrics with which women drape with careful negligence the upper part of a picture-frame was out of adjustment.</span>
   <span id="f000100">He noticed it,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and rearranged it with cautious pains,</span>
   <span id="f000102">stepping back several times to gauge the effect before he got it to suit him.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Then he gave it a light finishing pat or two with his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000105">“She always does that.</span>
   <span id="f000106">You can’t tell just what it lacks,</span>
   <span id="f000107">but it does lack something until you’ve done that – you can see it yourself after it’s done,</span>
   <span id="f000108">but that is all you know;</span>
   <span id="f000109">you can’t find out the law of it.</span>
   <span id="f000110">It’s like the finishing pats a mother gives the child’s hair after she’s got it combed and brushed,</span>
   <span id="f000111">I reckon.</span>
   <span id="f000112">I’ve seen her fix all these things so much that I can do them all just her way,</span>
   <span id="f000113">though I don’t know the law of any of them.</span>
   <span id="f000114">But she knows the law.</span>
   <span id="f000115">She knows the why and the how both;</span>
   <span id="f000116">but I don’t know the why;</span>
   <span id="f000117">I only know the how.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">He took me into a bedroom so that I might wash my hands;</span>
   <span id="f000119">such a bedroom as I had not seen for years:</span>
   <span id="f000120">white counterpane,</span>
   <span id="f000121">white pillows,</span>
   <span id="f000122">carpeted floor,</span>
   <span id="f000123">papered walls,</span>
   <span id="f000124">pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000125">dressing-table,</span>
   <span id="f000126">with mirror and pin-cushion and dainty toilet things;</span>
   <span id="f000127">and in the corner a wash-stand,</span>
   <span id="f000128">with real china-ware bowl and pitcher,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and with soap in a china dish,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and on a rack more than a dozen towels – towels too clean and white for one out of practice to use without some vague sense of profanation.</span>
   <span id="f000131">So my face spoke again,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and he answered with gratified words:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“All her work;</span>
   <span id="f000134">she did it all herself – every bit.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Nothing here that hasn’t felt the touch of her hand.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Now you would think – But I mustn’t talk so much.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">By this time I was wiping my hands and glancing from detail to detail of the room’s belongings,</span>
   <span id="f000138">as one is apt to do when he is in a new place,</span>
   <span id="f000139">where everything he sees is a comfort to his eye and his spirit;</span>
   <span id="f000140">and I became conscious,</span>
   <span id="f000141">in one of those unaccountable ways,</span>
   <span id="f000142">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000143">that there was something there somewhere that the man wanted me to discover for myself.</span>
   <span id="f000144">I knew it perfectly,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and I knew he was trying to help me by furtive indications with his eye,</span>
   <span id="f000146">so I tried hard to get on the right track,</span>
   <span id="f000147">being eager to gratify him.</span>
   <span id="f000148">I failed several times,</span>
   <span id="f000149">as I could see out of the corner of my eye without being told;</span>
   <span id="f000150">but at last I knew I must be looking straight at the thing – knew it from the pleasure issuing in invisible waves from him.</span>
   <span id="f000151">He broke into a happy laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and rubbed his hands together,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and cried out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“That’s it!</span>
   <span id="f000155">You’ve found it.</span>
   <span id="f000156">I knew you would.</span>
   <span id="f000157">It’s her picture.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">I went to the little black-walnut bracket on the farther wall,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and did find there what I had not yet noticed – a daguerreotype-case.</span>
   <span id="f000160">It contained the sweetest girlish face,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and the most beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000162">as it seemed to me,</span>
   <span id="f000163">that I had ever seen.</span>
   <span id="f000164">The man drank the admiration from my face,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and was fully satisfied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Nineteen her last birthday,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000167">as he put the picture back;</span>
   <span id="f000168">“and that was the day we were married.</span>
   <span id="f000169">When you see her – ah,</span>
   <span id="f000170">just wait till you see her!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“Where is she?</span>
   <span id="f000172">When will she be in?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000174">she’s away now.</span>
   <span id="f000175">She’s gone to see her people.</span>
   <span id="f000176">They live forty or fifty miles from here.</span>
   <span id="f000177">She’s been gone two weeks today.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“When do you expect her back?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“This is Wednesday.</span>
   <span id="f000180">She’ll be back Saturday,</span>
   <span id="f000181">in the evening – about nine o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000182">likely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">I felt a sharp sense of disappointment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“I’m sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000185">because I’ll be gone then,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000186">regretfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“Gone?</span>
   <span id="f000188">No – why should you go?</span>
   <span id="f000189">Don’t go.</span>
   <span id="f000190">She’ll be disappointed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">She would be disappointed – that beautiful creature!</span>
   <span id="f000192">If she had said the words herself they could hardly have blessed me more.</span>
   <span id="f000193">I was feeling a deep,</span>
   <span id="f000194">strong longing to see her – a longing so supplicating,</span>
   <span id="f000195">so insistent,</span>
   <span id="f000196">that it made me afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000197">I said to myself:</span>
   <span id="f000198">“I will go straight away from this place,</span>
   <span id="f000199">for my peace of mind’s sake.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000201">she likes to have people come and stop with us – people who know things,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and can talk – people like you.</span>
   <span id="f000203">She delights in it;</span>
   <span id="f000204">for she knows – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000205">she knows nearly everything herself,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and can talk,</span>
   <span id="f000207">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000208">like a bird – and the books she reads,</span>
   <span id="f000209">why,</span>
   <span id="f000210">you would be astonished.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Don’t go;</span>
   <span id="f000212">it’s only a little while,</span>
   <span id="f000213">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and she’ll be so disappointed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">I heard the words,</span>
   <span id="f000216">but hardly noticed them,</span>
   <span id="f000217">I was so deep in my thinkings and strugglings.</span>
   <span id="f000218">He left me,</span>
   <span id="f000219">but I didn’t know.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Presently he was back,</span>
   <span id="f000221">with the picture case in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and he held it open before me and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“There,</span>
   <span id="f000224">now,</span>
   <span id="f000225">tell her to her face you could have stayed to see her,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and you wouldn’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">That second glimpse broke down my good resolution.</span>
   <span id="f000228">I would stay and take the risk.</span>
   <span id="f000229">That night we smoked the tranquil pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and talked till late about various things,</span>
   <span id="f000231">but mainly about her;</span>
   <span id="f000232">and certainly I had had no such pleasant and restful time for many a day.</span>
   <span id="f000233">The Thursday followed and slipped comfortably away.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Toward twilight a big miner from three miles away came – one of the grizzled,</span>
   <span id="f000235">stranded pioneers – and gave us warm salutation,</span>
   <span id="f000236">clothed in grave and sober speech.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Then he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“I only just dropped over to ask about the little madam,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and when is she coming home.</span>
   <span id="f000240">Any news from her?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000242">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000243">a letter.</span>
   <span id="f000244">Would you like to hear it,</span>
   <span id="f000245">Tom?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000247">I should think I would,</span>
   <span id="f000248">if you don’t mind,</span>
   <span id="f000249">Henry!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">Henry got the letter out of his wallet,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and said he would skip some of the private phrases,</span>
   <span id="f000252">if we were willing;</span>
   <span id="f000253">then he went on and read the bulk of it – a loving,</span>
   <span id="f000254">sedate,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and altogether charming and gracious piece of handiwork,</span>
   <span id="f000256">with a postscript full of affectionate regards and messages to Tom,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and Charley,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and other close friends and neighbors.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">As the reader finished,</span>
   <span id="f000261">he glanced at Tom,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and cried out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Oho,</span>
   <span id="f000264">you’re at it again!</span>
   <span id="f000265">Take your hands away,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and let me see your eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000267">You always do that when I read a letter from her.</span>
   <span id="f000268">I will write and tell her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Oh no,</span>
   <span id="f000270">you mustn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000271">Henry.</span>
   <span id="f000272">I’m getting old,</span>
   <span id="f000273">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and any little disappointment makes me want to cry.</span>
   <span id="f000275">I thought she’d be here herself,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and now you’ve got only a letter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000278">now,</span>
   <span id="f000279">what put that in your head?</span>
   <span id="f000280">I thought everybody knew she wasn’t coming till Saturday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“Saturday!</span>
   <span id="f000282">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000283">come to think,</span>
   <span id="f000284">I did know it.</span>
   <span id="f000285">I wonder what’s the matter with me lately?</span>
   <span id="f000286">Certainly I knew it.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Ain’t we all getting ready for her?</span>
   <span id="f000288">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000289">I must be going now.</span>
   <span id="f000290">But I’ll be on hand when she comes,</span>
   <span id="f000291">old man!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">Late Friday afternoon another gray veteran tramped over from his cabin a mile or so away,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and said the boys wanted to have a little gaiety and a good time Saturday night,</span>
   <span id="f000294">if Henry thought she wouldn’t be too tired after her journey to be kept up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“Tired?</span>
   <span id="f000296">She tired!</span>
   <span id="f000297">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000298">hear the man!</span>
   <span id="f000299">Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000300">YOU know she’d sit up six weeks to please any one of you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">When Joe heard that there was a letter,</span>
   <span id="f000302">he asked to have it read,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and the loving messages in it for him broke the old fellow all up;</span>
   <span id="f000304">but he said he was such an old wreck that THAT would happen to him if she only just mentioned his name.</span>
   <span id="f000305">“Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000306">we miss her so!” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">Saturday afternoon I found I was taking out my watch pretty often.</span>
   <span id="f000308">Henry noticed it,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000310">with a startled look:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“You don’t think she ought to be here soon,</span>
   <span id="f000312">do you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">I felt caught,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and a little embarrassed;</span>
   <span id="f000315">but I laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and said it was a habit of mine when I was in a state of expenctancy.</span>
   <span id="f000317">But he didn’t seem quite satisfied;</span>
   <span id="f000318">and from that time on he began to show uneasiness.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Four times he walked me up the road to a point whence we could see a long distance;</span>
   <span id="f000320">and there he would stand,</span>
   <span id="f000321">shading his eyes with his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and looking.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Several times he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">“I’m getting worried,</span>
   <span id="f000325">I’m getting right down worried.</span>
   <span id="f000326">I know she’s not due till about nine o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and yet something seems to be trying to warn me that something’s happened.</span>
   <span id="f000328">You don’t think anything has happened,</span>
   <span id="f000329">do you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">I began to get pretty thoroughly ashamed of him for his childishness;</span>
   <span id="f000331">and at last,</span>
   <span id="f000332">when he repeated that imploring question still another time,</span>
   <span id="f000333">I lost my patience for the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and spoke pretty brutally to him.</span>
   <span id="f000335">It seemed to shrivel him up and cow him;</span>
   <span id="f000336">and he looked so wounded and so humble after that,</span>
   <span id="f000337">that I detested myself for having done the cruel and unnecessary thing.</span>
   <span id="f000338">And so I was glad when Charley,</span>
   <span id="f000339">another veteran,</span>
   <span id="f000340">arrived toward the edge of the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and nestled up to Henry to hear the letter read,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and talked over the preparations for the welcome.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Charley fetched out one hearty speech after another,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and did his best to drive away his friend’s bodings and apprehensions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“Anything HAPPENED to her?</span>
   <span id="f000346">Henry,</span>
   <span id="f000347">that’s pure nonsense.</span>
   <span id="f000348">There isn’t anything going to happen to her;</span>
   <span id="f000349">just make your mind easy as to that.</span>
   <span id="f000350">What did the letter say?</span>
   <span id="f000351">Said she was well,</span>
   <span id="f000352">didn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000353">And said she’d be here by nine o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000354">didn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000355">Did you ever know her to fail of her word?</span>
   <span id="f000356">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000357">you know you never did.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000359">then,</span>
   <span id="f000360">don’t you fret;</span>
   <span id="f000361">she’ll BE here,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and that’s absolutely certain,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and as sure as you are born.</span>
   <span id="f000364">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000365">now,</span>
   <span id="f000366">let’s get to decorating – not much time left.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">Pretty soon Tom and Joe arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and then all hands set about adoring the house with flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000369">Toward nine the three miners said that as they had brought their instruments they might as well tune up,</span>
   <span id="f000370">for the boys and girls would soon be arriving now,</span>
   <span id="f000371">and hungry for a good,</span>
   <span id="f000372">old-fashioned break-down.</span>
   <span id="f000373">A fiddle,</span>
   <span id="f000374">a banjo,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and a clarinet – these were the instruments.</span>
   <span id="f000376">The trio took their places side by side,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and began to play some rattling dance-music,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and beat time with their big boots.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">It was getting very close to nine.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Henry was standing in the door with his eyes directed up the road,</span>
   <span id="f000381">his body swaying to the torture of his mental distress.</span>
   <span id="f000382">He had been made to drink his wife’s health and safety several times,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and now Tom shouted:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“All hands stand by!</span>
   <span id="f000385">One more drink,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and she’s here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">Joe brought the glasses on a waiter,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and served the party.</span>
   <span id="f000389">I reached for one of the two remaining glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000390">but Joe growled under his breath:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“Drop that!</span>
   <span id="f000392">Take the other.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">Which I did.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Henry was served last.</span>
   <span id="f000395">He had hardly swallowed his drink when the clock began to strike.</span>
   <span id="f000396">He listened till it finished,</span>
   <span id="f000397">his face growing pale and paler;</span>
   <span id="f000398">then he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“Boys,</span>
   <span id="f000400">I’m sick with fear.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Help me – I want to lie down!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">They helped him to the sofa.</span>
   <span id="f000403">He began to nestle and drowse,</span>
   <span id="f000404">but presently spoke like one talking in his sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000406">“Did I hear horses’ feet?</span>
   <span id="f000407">Have they come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">One of the veterans answered,</span>
   <span id="f000409">close to his ear:</span>
   <span id="f000410">“It was Jimmy Parish come to say the party got delayed,</span>
   <span id="f000411">but they’re right up the road a piece,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and coming along.</span>
   <span id="f000413">Her horse is lame,</span>
   <span id="f000414">but she’ll be here in half an hour.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000416">I’m SO thankful nothing has happened!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">He was asleep almost before the words were out of his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000418">In a moment those handy men had his clothes off,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and had tucked him into his bed in the chamber where I had washed my hands.</span>
   <span id="f000420">They closed the door and came back.</span>
   <span id="f000421">Then they seemed preparing to leave;</span>
   <span id="f000422">but I said:</span>
   <span id="f000423">“Please don’t go,</span>
   <span id="f000424">gentlemen.</span>
   <span id="f000425">She won’t know me;</span>
   <span id="f000426">I am a stranger.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">They glanced at each other.</span>
   <span id="f000428">Then Joe said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">“She?</span>
   <span id="f000430">Poor thing,</span>
   <span id="f000431">she’s been dead nineteen years!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">“Dead?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“That or worse.</span>
   <span id="f000434">She went to see her folks half a year after she was married,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and on her way back,</span>
   <span id="f000436">on a Saturday evening,</span>
   <span id="f000437">the Indians captured her within five miles of this place,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and she’s never been heard of since.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">“And he lost his mind in consequence?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">“Never has been sane an hour since.</span>
   <span id="f000441">But he only gets bad when that time of year comes round.</span>
   <span id="f000442">Then we begin to drop in here,</span>
   <span id="f000443">three days before she’s due,</span>
   <span id="f000444">to encourage him up,</span>
   <span id="f000445">and ask if he’s heard from her,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and Saturday we all come and fix up the house with flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and get everything ready for a dance.</span>
   <span id="f000448">We’ve done it every year for nineteen years.</span>
   <span id="f000449">The first Saturday there was twenty-seven of us,</span>
   <span id="f000450">without counting the girls;</span>
   <span id="f000451">there’s only three of us now,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and the girls are gone.</span>
   <span id="f000453">We drug him to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000454">or he would go wild;</span>
   <span id="f000455">then he’s all right for another year – thinks she’s with him till the last three or four days come round;</span>
   <span id="f000456">then he begins to look for her,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and gets out his poor old letter,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and we come and ask him to read it to us.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000460">she was a darling!”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

