<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">I am a rather elderly man.</span>
   <span id="f000003">The nature of my avocations for the last thirty years has brought me into more than ordinary contact with what would seem an interesting and somewhat singular set of men,</span>
   <span id="f000004">of whom as yet nothing that I know of has ever been written:</span>
   <span id="f000005">– I mean the law-copyists or scriveners.</span>
   <span id="f000006">I have known very many of them,</span>
   <span id="f000007">professionally and privately,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and if I pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000009">could relate divers histories,</span>
   <span id="f000010">at which good-natured gentlemen might smile,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and sentimental souls might weep.</span>
   <span id="f000012">But I waive the biographies of all other scriveners for a few passages in the life of Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000013">who was a scrivener of the strangest I ever saw or heard of.</span>
   <span id="f000014">While of other law-copyists I might write the complete life,</span>
   <span id="f000015">of Bartleby nothing of that sort can be done.</span>
   <span id="f000016">I believe that no materials exist for a full and satisfactory biography of this man.</span>
   <span id="f000017">It is an irreparable loss to literature.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Bartleby was one of those beings of whom nothing is ascertainable,</span>
   <span id="f000019">except from the original sources,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and in his case those are very small.</span>
   <span id="f000021">What my own astonished eyes saw of Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000022"><em>that</em> is all I know of him,</span>
   <span id="f000023">except,</span>
   <span id="f000024">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000025">one vague report which will appear in the sequel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">Ere introducing the scrivener,</span>
   <span id="f000027">as he first appeared to me,</span>
   <span id="f000028">it is fit I make some mention of myself,</span>
   <span id="f000029">my <em>employees</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000030">my business,</span>
   <span id="f000031">my chambers,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and general surroundings;</span>
   <span id="f000033">because some such description is indispensable to an adequate understanding of the chief character about to be presented.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">Imprimis:</span>
   <span id="f000035">I am a man who,</span>
   <span id="f000036">from his youth upwards,</span>
   <span id="f000037">has been filled with a profound conviction that the easiest way of life is the best.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Hence,</span>
   <span id="f000039">though I belong to a profession proverbially energetic and nervous,</span>
   <span id="f000040">even to turbulence,</span>
   <span id="f000041">at times,</span>
   <span id="f000042">yet nothing of that sort have I ever suffered to invade my peace.</span>
   <span id="f000043">I am one of those unambitious lawyers who never addresses a jury,</span>
   <span id="f000044">or in any way draws down public applause;</span>
   <span id="f000045">but in the cool tranquility of a snug retreat,</span>
   <span id="f000046">do a snug business among rich men’s bonds and mortgages and title-deeds.</span>
   <span id="f000047">All who know me,</span>
   <span id="f000048">consider me an eminently <em>safe</em> man.</span>
   <span id="f000049">The late John Jacob Astor,</span>
   <span id="f000050">a personage little given to poetic enthusiasm,</span>
   <span id="f000051">had no hesitation in pronouncing my first grand point to be prudence;</span>
   <span id="f000052">my next,</span>
   <span id="f000053">method.</span>
   <span id="f000054">I do not speak it in vanity,</span>
   <span id="f000055">but simply record the fact,</span>
   <span id="f000056">that I was not unemployed in my profession by the late John Jacob Astor;</span>
   <span id="f000057">a name which,</span>
   <span id="f000058">I admit,</span>
   <span id="f000059">I love to repeat,</span>
   <span id="f000060">for it hath a rounded and orbicular sound to it,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and rings like unto bullion.</span>
   <span id="f000062">I will freely add,</span>
   <span id="f000063">that I was not insensible to the late John Jacob Astor’s good opinion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">Some time prior to the period at which this little history begins,</span>
   <span id="f000065">my avocations had been largely increased.</span>
   <span id="f000066">The good old office,</span>
   <span id="f000067">now extinct in the State of New York,</span>
   <span id="f000068">of a Master in Chancery,</span>
   <span id="f000069">had been conferred upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000070">It was not a very arduous office,</span>
   <span id="f000071">but very pleasantly remunerative.</span>
   <span id="f000072">I seldom lose my temper;</span>
   <span id="f000073">much more seldom indulge in dangerous indignation at wrongs and outrages;</span>
   <span id="f000074">but I must be permitted to be rash here and declare,</span>
   <span id="f000075">that I consider the sudden and violent abrogation of the office of Master in Chancery,</span>
   <span id="f000076">by the new Constitution,</span>
   <span id="f000077">as a – premature act;</span>
   <span id="f000078">inasmuch as I had counted upon a life-lease of the profits,</span>
   <span id="f000079">whereas I only received those of a few short years.</span>
   <span id="f000080">But this is by the way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">My chambers were up stairs at No.</span>
   <span id="f000082">– Wall-street.</span>
   <span id="f000083">At one end they looked upon the white wall of the interior of a spacious sky-light shaft,</span>
   <span id="f000084">penetrating the building from top to bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000085">This view might have been considered rather tame than otherwise,</span>
   <span id="f000086">deficient in what landscape painters call “life.” But if so,</span>
   <span id="f000087">the view from the other end of my chambers offered,</span>
   <span id="f000088">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000089">a contrast,</span>
   <span id="f000090">if nothing more.</span>
   <span id="f000091">In that direction my windows commanded an unobstructed view of a lofty brick wall,</span>
   <span id="f000092">black by age and everlasting shade;</span>
   <span id="f000093">which wall required no spy-glass to bring out its lurking beauties,</span>
   <span id="f000094">but for the benefit of all near-sighted spectators,</span>
   <span id="f000095">was pushed up to within ten feet of my window panes.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Owing to the great height of the surrounding buildings,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and my chambers being on the second floor,</span>
   <span id="f000098">the interval between this wall and mine not a little resembled a huge square cistern.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">At the period just preceding the advent of Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000100">I had two persons as copyists in my employment,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and a promising lad as an office-boy.</span>
   <span id="f000102">First,</span>
   <span id="f000103">Turkey;</span>
   <span id="f000104">second,</span>
   <span id="f000105">Nippers;</span>
   <span id="f000106">third,</span>
   <span id="f000107">Ginger Nut.</span>
   <span id="f000108">These may seem names,</span>
   <span id="f000109">the like of which are not usually found in the Directory.</span>
   <span id="f000110">In truth they were nicknames,</span>
   <span id="f000111">mutually conferred upon each other by my three clerks,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and were deemed expressive of their respective persons or characters.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Turkey was a short,</span>
   <span id="f000114">pursy Englishman of about my own age,</span>
   <span id="f000115">that is,</span>
   <span id="f000116">somewhere not far from sixty.</span>
   <span id="f000117">In the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000118">one might say,</span>
   <span id="f000119">his face was of a fine florid hue,</span>
   <span id="f000120">but after twelve o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000121">meridian – his dinner hour – it blazed like a grate full of Christmas coals;</span>
   <span id="f000122">and continued blazing – but,</span>
   <span id="f000123">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000124">with a gradual wane – till 6 o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000125">P.M.</span>
   <span id="f000126">or thereabouts,</span>
   <span id="f000127">after which I saw no more of the proprietor of the face,</span>
   <span id="f000128">which gaining its meridian with the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000129">seemed to set with it,</span>
   <span id="f000130">to rise,</span>
   <span id="f000131">culminate,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and decline the following day,</span>
   <span id="f000133">with the like regularity and undiminished glory.</span>
   <span id="f000134">There are many singular coincidences I have known in the course of my life,</span>
   <span id="f000135">not the least among which was the fact,</span>
   <span id="f000136">that exactly when Turkey displayed his fullest beams from his red and radiant countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000137">just then,</span>
   <span id="f000138">too,</span>
   <span id="f000139">at that critical moment,</span>
   <span id="f000140">began the daily period when I considered his business capacities as seriously disturbed for the remainder of the twenty-four hours.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Not that he was absolutely idle,</span>
   <span id="f000142">or averse to business then;</span>
   <span id="f000143">far from it.</span>
   <span id="f000144">The difficulty was,</span>
   <span id="f000145">he was apt to be altogether too energetic.</span>
   <span id="f000146">There was a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000147">inflamed,</span>
   <span id="f000148">flurried,</span>
   <span id="f000149">flighty recklessness of activity about him.</span>
   <span id="f000150">He would be incautious in dipping his pen into his inkstand.</span>
   <span id="f000151">All his blots upon my documents,</span>
   <span id="f000152">were dropped there after twelve o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000153">meridian.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000155">not only would he be reckless and sadly given to making blots in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000156">but some days he went further,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and was rather noisy.</span>
   <span id="f000158">At such times,</span>
   <span id="f000159">too,</span>
   <span id="f000160">his face flamed with augmented blazonry,</span>
   <span id="f000161">as if cannel coal had been heaped on anthracite.</span>
   <span id="f000162">He made an unpleasant racket with his chair;</span>
   <span id="f000163">spilled his sand-box;</span>
   <span id="f000164">in mending his pens,</span>
   <span id="f000165">impatiently split them all to pieces,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and threw them on the floor in a sudden passion;</span>
   <span id="f000167">stood up and leaned over his table,</span>
   <span id="f000168">boxing his papers about in a most indecorous manner,</span>
   <span id="f000169">very sad to behold in an elderly man like him.</span>
   <span id="f000170">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000171">as he was in many ways a most valuable person to me,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and all the time before twelve o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000173">meridian,</span>
   <span id="f000174">was the quickest,</span>
   <span id="f000175">steadiest creature too,</span>
   <span id="f000176">accomplishing a great deal of work in a style not easy to be matched – for these reasons,</span>
   <span id="f000177">I was willing to overlook his eccentricities,</span>
   <span id="f000178">though indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000179">occasionally,</span>
   <span id="f000180">I remonstrated with him.</span>
   <span id="f000181">I did this very gently,</span>
   <span id="f000182">however,</span>
   <span id="f000183">because,</span>
   <span id="f000184">though the civilest,</span>
   <span id="f000185">nay,</span>
   <span id="f000186">the blandest and most reverential of men in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000187">yet in the afternoon he was disposed,</span>
   <span id="f000188">upon provocation,</span>
   <span id="f000189">to be slightly rash with his tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000190">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000191">insolent.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000193">valuing his morning services as I did,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and resolved not to lose them;</span>
   <span id="f000195">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000196">at the same time made uncomfortable by his inflamed ways after twelve o’clock;</span>
   <span id="f000197">and being a man of peace,</span>
   <span id="f000198">unwilling by my admonitions to call forth unseemly retorts from him;</span>
   <span id="f000199">I took upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000200">one Saturday noon</span>
   <span id="f000201">(he was always worse on Saturdays),</span>
   <span id="f000202">to hint to him,</span>
   <span id="f000203">very kindly,</span>
   <span id="f000204">that perhaps now that he was growing old,</span>
   <span id="f000205">it might be well to abridge his labors;</span>
   <span id="f000206">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000207">he need not come to my chambers after twelve o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000208">but,</span>
   <span id="f000209">dinner over,</span>
   <span id="f000210">had best go home to his lodgings and rest himself till teatime.</span>
   <span id="f000211">But no;</span>
   <span id="f000212">he insisted upon his afternoon devotions.</span>
   <span id="f000213">His countenance became intolerably fervid,</span>
   <span id="f000214">as he oratorically assured me – gesticulating with a long ruler at the other end of the room – that if his services in the morning were useful,</span>
   <span id="f000215">how indispensable,</span>
   <span id="f000216">then,</span>
   <span id="f000217">in the afternoon?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“With submission,</span>
   <span id="f000219">sir,” said Turkey on this occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000220">“I consider myself your right-hand man.</span>
   <span id="f000221">In the morning I but marshal and deploy my columns;</span>
   <span id="f000222">but in the afternoon I put myself at their head,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and gallantly charge the foe,</span>
   <span id="f000224">thus!” – and he made a violent thrust with the ruler.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“But the blots,</span>
   <span id="f000226">Turkey,” intimated I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“True,</span>
   <span id="f000228">– but,</span>
   <span id="f000229">with submission,</span>
   <span id="f000230">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000231">behold these hairs!</span>
   <span id="f000232">I am getting old.</span>
   <span id="f000233">Surely,</span>
   <span id="f000234">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000235">a blot or two of a warm afternoon is not to be severely urged against gray hairs.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Old age – even if it blot the page – is honorable.</span>
   <span id="f000237">With submission,</span>
   <span id="f000238">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000239">we <em>both</em> are getting old.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">This appeal to my fellow-feeling was hardly to be resisted.</span>
   <span id="f000241">At all events,</span>
   <span id="f000242">I saw that go he would not.</span>
   <span id="f000243">So I made up my mind to let him stay,</span>
   <span id="f000244">resolving,</span>
   <span id="f000245">nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000246">to see to it,</span>
   <span id="f000247">that during the afternoon he had to do with my less important papers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000249">the second on my list,</span>
   <span id="f000250">was a whiskered,</span>
   <span id="f000251">sallow,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and,</span>
   <span id="f000253">upon the whole,</span>
   <span id="f000254">rather piratical-looking young man of about five and twenty.</span>
   <span id="f000255">I always deemed him the victim of two evil powers – ambition and indigestion.</span>
   <span id="f000256">The ambition was evinced by a certain impatience of the duties of a mere copyist,</span>
   <span id="f000257">an unwarrantable usurpation of strictly professional affairs,</span>
   <span id="f000258">such as the original drawing up of legal documents.</span>
   <span id="f000259">The indigestion seemed betokened in an occasional nervous testiness and grinning irritability,</span>
   <span id="f000260">causing the teeth to audibly grind together over mistakes committed in copying;</span>
   <span id="f000261">unnecessary maledictions,</span>
   <span id="f000262">hissed,</span>
   <span id="f000263">rather than spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000264">in the heat of business;</span>
   <span id="f000265">and especially by a continual discontent with the height of the table where he worked.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Though of a very ingenious mechanical turn,</span>
   <span id="f000267">Nippers could never get this table to suit him.</span>
   <span id="f000268">He put chips under it,</span>
   <span id="f000269">blocks of various sorts,</span>
   <span id="f000270">bits of pasteboard,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and at last went so far as to attempt an exquisite adjustment by final pieces of folded blotting paper.</span>
   <span id="f000272">But no invention would answer.</span>
   <span id="f000273">If,</span>
   <span id="f000274">for the sake of easing his back,</span>
   <span id="f000275">he brought the table lid at a sharp angle well up towards his chin,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and wrote there like a man using the steep roof of a Dutch house for his desk:</span>
   <span id="f000277">– then he declared that it stopped the circulation in his arms.</span>
   <span id="f000278">If now he lowered the table to his waistbands,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and stooped over it in writing,</span>
   <span id="f000280">then there was a sore aching in his back.</span>
   <span id="f000281">In short,</span>
   <span id="f000282">the truth of the matter was,</span>
   <span id="f000283">Nippers knew not what he wanted.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Or,</span>
   <span id="f000285">if he wanted any thing,</span>
   <span id="f000286">it was to be rid of a scrivener’s table altogether.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Among the manifestations of his diseased ambition was a fondness he had for receiving visits from certain ambiguous-looking fellows in seedy coats,</span>
   <span id="f000288">whom he called his clients.</span>
   <span id="f000289">Indeed I was aware that not only was he,</span>
   <span id="f000290">at times,</span>
   <span id="f000291">considerable of a ward-politician,</span>
   <span id="f000292">but he occasionally did a little business at the Justices’ courts,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and was not unknown on the steps of the Tombs.</span>
   <span id="f000294">I have good reason to believe,</span>
   <span id="f000295">however,</span>
   <span id="f000296">that one individual who called upon him at my chambers,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and who,</span>
   <span id="f000298">with a grand air,</span>
   <span id="f000299">he insisted was his client,</span>
   <span id="f000300">was no other than a dun,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and the alleged title-deed,</span>
   <span id="f000302">a bill.</span>
   <span id="f000303">But with all his failings,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and the annoyances he caused me,</span>
   <span id="f000305">Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000306">like his compatriot Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000307">was a very useful man to me;</span>
   <span id="f000308">wrote a neat,</span>
   <span id="f000309">swift hand;</span>
   <span id="f000310">and,</span>
   <span id="f000311">when he chose,</span>
   <span id="f000312">was not deficient in a gentlemanly sort of deportment.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Added to this,</span>
   <span id="f000314">he always dressed in a gentlemanly sort of way;</span>
   <span id="f000315">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000316">incidentally,</span>
   <span id="f000317">reflected credit upon my chambers.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Whereas with respect to Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000319">I had much ado to keep him from being a reproach to me.</span>
   <span id="f000320">His clothes were apt to look oily and smell of eating-houses.</span>
   <span id="f000321">He wore his pantaloons very loose and baggy in summer.</span>
   <span id="f000322">His coats were execrable;</span>
   <span id="f000323">his hat not to be handled.</span>
   <span id="f000324">But while the hat was a thing of indifference to me,</span>
   <span id="f000325">inasmuch as his natural civility and deference,</span>
   <span id="f000326">as a dependent Englishman,</span>
   <span id="f000327">always led him to doff it the moment he entered the room,</span>
   <span id="f000328">yet his coat was another matter.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Concerning his coats,</span>
   <span id="f000330">I reasoned with him;</span>
   <span id="f000331">but with no effect.</span>
   <span id="f000332">The truth was,</span>
   <span id="f000333">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000334">that a man of so small an income,</span>
   <span id="f000335">could not afford to sport such a lustrous face and a lustrous coat at one and the same time.</span>
   <span id="f000336">As Nippers once observed,</span>
   <span id="f000337">Turkey’s money went chiefly for red ink.</span>
   <span id="f000338">One winter day I presented Turkey with a highly-respectable looking coat of my own,</span>
   <span id="f000339">a padded gray coat,</span>
   <span id="f000340">of a most comfortable warmth,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and which buttoned straight up from the knee to the neck.</span>
   <span id="f000342">I thought Turkey would appreciate the favor,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and abate his rashness and obstreperousness of afternoons.</span>
   <span id="f000344">But no.</span>
   <span id="f000345">I verily believe that buttoning himself up in so downy and blanket-like a coat had a pernicious effect upon him;</span>
   <span id="f000346">upon the same principle that too much oats are bad for horses.</span>
   <span id="f000347">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000348">precisely as a rash,</span>
   <span id="f000349">restive horse is said to feel his oats,</span>
   <span id="f000350">so Turkey felt his coat.</span>
   <span id="f000351">It made him insolent.</span>
   <span id="f000352">He was a man whom prosperity harmed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">Though concerning the self-indulgent habits of Turkey I had my own private surmises,</span>
   <span id="f000354">yet touching Nippers I was well persuaded that whatever might by his faults in other respects,</span>
   <span id="f000355">he was,</span>
   <span id="f000356">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000357">a temperate young man.</span>
   <span id="f000358">But indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000359">nature herself seemed to have been his vintner,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and at his birth charged him so thoroughly with an irritable,</span>
   <span id="f000361">brandy-like disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000362">that all subsequent potations were needless.</span>
   <span id="f000363">When I consider how,</span>
   <span id="f000364">amid the stillness of my chambers,</span>
   <span id="f000365">Nippers would sometimes impatiently rise from his seat,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and stooping over his table,</span>
   <span id="f000367">spread his arms wide apart,</span>
   <span id="f000368">seize the whole desk,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and move it,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and jerk it,</span>
   <span id="f000371">with a grim,</span>
   <span id="f000372">grinding motion on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000373">as if the table were a perverse voluntary agent,</span>
   <span id="f000374">intent on thwarting and vexing him;</span>
   <span id="f000375">I plainly perceive that for Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000376">brandy and water were altogether superfluous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">It was fortunate for me that,</span>
   <span id="f000378">owing to its peculiar cause – indigestion – the irritability and consequent nervousness of Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000379">were mainly observable in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000380">while in the afternoon he was comparatively mild.</span>
   <span id="f000381">So that Turkey’s paroxysms only coming on about twelve o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000382">I never had to do with their eccentricities at one time.</span>
   <span id="f000383">Their fits relieved each other like guards.</span>
   <span id="f000384">When Nippers’ was on,</span>
   <span id="f000385">Turkey’s was off;</span>
   <span id="f000386">and <em>vice versa</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000387">This was a good natural arrangement under the circumstances.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">Ginger Nut,</span>
   <span id="f000389">the third on my list,</span>
   <span id="f000390">was a lad some twelve years old.</span>
   <span id="f000391">His father was a carman,</span>
   <span id="f000392">ambitious of seeing his son on the bench instead of a cart,</span>
   <span id="f000393">before he died.</span>
   <span id="f000394">So he sent him to my office as student at law,</span>
   <span id="f000395">errand boy,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and cleaner and sweeper,</span>
   <span id="f000397">at the rate of one dollar a week.</span>
   <span id="f000398">He had a little desk to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000399">but he did not use it much.</span>
   <span id="f000400">Upon inspection,</span>
   <span id="f000401">the drawer exhibited a great array of the shells of various sorts of nuts.</span>
   <span id="f000402">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000403">to this quick-witted youth the whole noble science of the law was contained in a nut-shell.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Not the least among the employments of Ginger Nut,</span>
   <span id="f000405">as well as one which he discharged with the most alacrity,</span>
   <span id="f000406">was his duty as cake and apple purveyor for Turkey and Nippers.</span>
   <span id="f000407">Copying law papers being proverbially dry,</span>
   <span id="f000408">husky sort of business,</span>
   <span id="f000409">my two scriveners were fain to moisten their mouths very often with Spitzenbergs to be had at the numerous stalls nigh the Custom House and Post Office.</span>
   <span id="f000410">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000411">they sent Ginger Nut very frequently for that peculiar cake – small,</span>
   <span id="f000412">flat,</span>
   <span id="f000413">round,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and very spicy – after which he had been named by them.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Of a cold morning when business was but dull,</span>
   <span id="f000416">Turkey would gobble up scores of these cakes,</span>
   <span id="f000417">as if they were mere wafers – indeed they sell them at the rate of six or eight for a penny – the scrape of his pen blending with the crunching of the crisp particles in his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000418">Of all the fiery afternoon blunders and flurried rashnesses of Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000419">was his once moistening a ginger-cake between his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and clapping it on to a mortgage for a seal.</span>
   <span id="f000421">I came within an ace of dismissing him then.</span>
   <span id="f000422">But he mollified me by making an oriental bow,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and saying – “With submission,</span>
   <span id="f000424">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000425">it was generous of me to find you in stationery on my own account.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">Now my original business – that of a conveyancer and title hunter,</span>
   <span id="f000427">and drawer-up of recondite documents of all sorts – was considerably increased by receiving the master’s office.</span>
   <span id="f000428">There was now great work for scriveners.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Not only must I push the clerks already with me,</span>
   <span id="f000430">but I must have additional help.</span>
   <span id="f000431">In answer to my advertisement,</span>
   <span id="f000432">a motionless young man one morning,</span>
   <span id="f000433">stood upon my office threshold,</span>
   <span id="f000434">the door being open,</span>
   <span id="f000435">for it was summer.</span>
   <span id="f000436">I can see that figure now – pallidly neat,</span>
   <span id="f000437">pitiably respectable,</span>
   <span id="f000438">incurably forlorn!</span>
   <span id="f000439">It was Bartleby.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">After a few words touching his qualifications,</span>
   <span id="f000441">I engaged him,</span>
   <span id="f000442">glad to have among my corps of copyists a man of so singularly sedate an aspect,</span>
   <span id="f000443">which I thought might operate beneficially upon the flighty temper of Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and the fiery one of Nippers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">I should have stated before that ground glass folding-doors divided my premises into two parts,</span>
   <span id="f000446">one of which was occupied by my scriveners,</span>
   <span id="f000447">the other by myself.</span>
   <span id="f000448">According to my humor I threw open these doors,</span>
   <span id="f000449">or closed them.</span>
   <span id="f000450">I resolved to assign Bartleby a corner by the folding-doors,</span>
   <span id="f000451">but on my side of them,</span>
   <span id="f000452">so as to have this quiet man within easy call,</span>
   <span id="f000453">in case any trifling thing was to be done.</span>
   <span id="f000454">I placed his desk close up to a small side-window in that part of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000455">a window which originally had afforded a lateral view of certain grimy back-yards and bricks,</span>
   <span id="f000456">but which,</span>
   <span id="f000457">owing to subsequent erections,</span>
   <span id="f000458">commanded at present no view at all,</span>
   <span id="f000459">though it gave some light.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Within three feet of the panes was a wall,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and the light came down from far above,</span>
   <span id="f000462">between two lofty buildings,</span>
   <span id="f000463">as from a very small opening in a dome.</span>
   <span id="f000464">Still further to a satisfactory arrangement,</span>
   <span id="f000465">I procured a high green folding screen,</span>
   <span id="f000466">which might entirely isolate Bartleby from my sight,</span>
   <span id="f000467">though not remove him from my voice.</span>
   <span id="f000468">And thus,</span>
   <span id="f000469">in a manner,</span>
   <span id="f000470">privacy and society were conjoined.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">At first Bartleby did an extraordinary quantity of writing.</span>
   <span id="f000472">As if long famishing for something to copy,</span>
   <span id="f000473">he seemed to gorge himself on my documents.</span>
   <span id="f000474">There was no pause for digestion.</span>
   <span id="f000475">He ran a day and night line,</span>
   <span id="f000476">copying by sun-light and by candle-light.</span>
   <span id="f000477">I should have been quite delighted with his application,</span>
   <span id="f000478">had he been cheerfully industrious.</span>
   <span id="f000479">But he wrote on silently,</span>
   <span id="f000480">palely,</span>
   <span id="f000481">mechanically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">It is,</span>
   <span id="f000483">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000484">an indispensable part of a scrivener’s business to verify the accuracy of his copy,</span>
   <span id="f000485">word by word.</span>
   <span id="f000486">Where there are two or more scriveners in an office,</span>
   <span id="f000487">they assist each other in this examination,</span>
   <span id="f000488">one reading from the copy,</span>
   <span id="f000489">the other holding the original.</span>
   <span id="f000490">It is a very dull,</span>
   <span id="f000491">wearisome,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and lethargic affair.</span>
   <span id="f000493">I can readily imagine that to some sanguine temperaments it would be altogether intolerable.</span>
   <span id="f000494">For example,</span>
   <span id="f000495">I cannot credit that the mettlesome poet Byron would have contentedly sat down with Bartleby to examine a law document of,</span>
   <span id="f000496">say five hundred pages,</span>
   <span id="f000497">closely written in a crimpy hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000498">Now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000499">in the haste of business,</span>
   <span id="f000500">it had been my habit to assist in comparing some brief document myself,</span>
   <span id="f000501">calling Turkey or Nippers for this purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000502">One object I had in placing Bartleby so handy to me behind the screen,</span>
   <span id="f000503">was to avail myself of his services on such trivial occasions.</span>
   <span id="f000504">It was on the third day,</span>
   <span id="f000505">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000506">of his being with me,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and before any necessity had arisen for having his own writing examined,</span>
   <span id="f000508">that,</span>
   <span id="f000509">being much hurried to complete a small affair I had in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000510">I abruptly called to Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000511">In my haste and natural expectancy of instant compliance,</span>
   <span id="f000512">I sat with my head bent over the original on my desk,</span>
   <span id="f000513">and my right hand sideways,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and somewhat nervously extended with the copy,</span>
   <span id="f000515">so that immediately upon emerging from his retreat,</span>
   <span id="f000516">Bartleby might snatch it and proceed to business without the least delay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">In this very attitude did I sit when I called to him,</span>
   <span id="f000518">rapidly stating what it was I wanted him to do – namely,</span>
   <span id="f000519">to examine a small paper with me.</span>
   <span id="f000520">Imagine my surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000521">nay,</span>
   <span id="f000522">my consternation,</span>
   <span id="f000523">when without moving from his privacy,</span>
   <span id="f000524">Bartleby in a singularly mild,</span>
   <span id="f000525">firm voice,</span>
   <span id="f000526">replied,</span>
   <span id="f000527">“I would prefer not to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">I sat awhile in perfect silence,</span>
   <span id="f000529">rallying my stunned faculties.</span>
   <span id="f000530">Immediately it occurred to me that my ears had deceived me,</span>
   <span id="f000531">or Bartleby had entirely misunderstood my meaning.</span>
   <span id="f000532">I repeated my request in the clearest tone I could assume.</span>
   <span id="f000533">But in quite as clear a one came the previous reply,</span>
   <span id="f000534">“I would prefer not to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“Prefer not to,” echoed I,</span>
   <span id="f000536">rising in high excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and crossing the room with a stride.</span>
   <span id="f000538">“What do you mean?</span>
   <span id="f000539">Are you moon-struck?</span>
   <span id="f000540">I want you to help me compare this sheet here – take it,” and I thrust it towards him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">“I would prefer not to,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">I looked at him steadfastly.</span>
   <span id="f000543">His face was leanly composed;</span>
   <span id="f000544">his gray eye dimly calm.</span>
   <span id="f000545">Not a wrinkle of agitation rippled him.</span>
   <span id="f000546">Had there been the least uneasiness,</span>
   <span id="f000547">anger,</span>
   <span id="f000548">impatience or impertinence in his manner;</span>
   <span id="f000549">in other words,</span>
   <span id="f000550">had there been any thing ordinarily human about him,</span>
   <span id="f000551">doubtless I should have violently dismissed him from the premises.</span>
   <span id="f000552">But as it was,</span>
   <span id="f000553">I should have as soon thought of turning my pale plaster-of-paris bust of Cicero out of doors.</span>
   <span id="f000554">I stood gazing at him awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000555">as he went on with his own writing,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and then reseated myself at my desk.</span>
   <span id="f000557">This is very strange,</span>
   <span id="f000558">thought I.</span>
   <span id="f000559">What had one best do?</span>
   <span id="f000560">But my business hurried me.</span>
   <span id="f000561">I concluded to forget the matter for the present,</span>
   <span id="f000562">reserving it for my future leisure.</span>
   <span id="f000563">So calling Nippers from the other room,</span>
   <span id="f000564">the paper was speedily examined.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">A few days after this,</span>
   <span id="f000566">Bartleby concluded four lengthy documents,</span>
   <span id="f000567">being quadruplicates of a week’s testimony taken before me in my High Court of Chancery.</span>
   <span id="f000568">It became necessary to examine them.</span>
   <span id="f000569">It was an important suit,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and great accuracy was imperative.</span>
   <span id="f000571">Having all things arranged I called Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000572">Nippers and Ginger Nut from the next room,</span>
   <span id="f000573">meaning to place the four copies in the hands of my four clerks,</span>
   <span id="f000574">while I should read from the original.</span>
   <span id="f000575">Accordingly Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000576">Nippers and Ginger Nut had taken their seats in a row,</span>
   <span id="f000577">each with his document in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000578">when I called to Bartleby to join this interesting group.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">“Bartleby!</span>
   <span id="f000580">quick,</span>
   <span id="f000581">I am waiting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">I heard a slow scrape of his chair legs on the uncarpeted floor,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and soon he appeared standing at the entrance of his hermitage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000584">“What is wanted?” said he mildly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">“The copies,</span>
   <span id="f000586">the copies,” said I hurriedly.</span>
   <span id="f000587">“We are going to examine them.</span>
   <span id="f000588">There” – and I held towards him the fourth quadruplicate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">“I would prefer not to,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000590">and gently disappeared behind the screen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">For a few moments I was turned into a pillar of salt,</span>
   <span id="f000592">standing at the head of my seated column of clerks.</span>
   <span id="f000593">Recovering myself,</span>
   <span id="f000594">I advanced towards the screen,</span>
   <span id="f000595">and demanded the reason for such extraordinary conduct.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">“<em>Why</em> do you refuse?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">“I would prefer not to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">With any other man I should have flown outright into a dreadful passion,</span>
   <span id="f000599">scorned all further words,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and thrust him ignominiously from my presence.</span>
   <span id="f000601">But there was something about Bartleby that not only strangely disarmed me,</span>
   <span id="f000602">but in a wonderful manner touched and disconcerted me.</span>
   <span id="f000603">I began to reason with him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000604">“These are your own copies we are about to examine.</span>
   <span id="f000605">It is labor saving to you,</span>
   <span id="f000606">because one examination will answer for your four papers.</span>
   <span id="f000607">It is common usage.</span>
   <span id="f000608">Every copyist is bound to help examine his copy.</span>
   <span id="f000609">Is it not so?</span>
   <span id="f000610">Will you not speak?</span>
   <span id="f000611">Answer!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">“I prefer not to,” he replied in a flute-like tone.</span>
   <span id="f000613">It seemed to me that while I had been addressing him,</span>
   <span id="f000614">he carefully revolved every statement that I made;</span>
   <span id="f000615">fully comprehended the meaning;</span>
   <span id="f000616">could not gainsay the irresistible conclusions;</span>
   <span id="f000617">but,</span>
   <span id="f000618">at the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000619">some paramount consideration prevailed with him to reply as he did.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">“You are decided,</span>
   <span id="f000621">then,</span>
   <span id="f000622">not to comply with my request – a request made according to common usage and common sense?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">He briefly gave me to understand that on that point my judgment was sound.</span>
   <span id="f000624">Yes:</span>
   <span id="f000625">his decision was irreversible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">It is not seldom the case that when a man is browbeaten in some unprecedented and violently unreasonable way,</span>
   <span id="f000627">he begins to stagger in his own plainest faith.</span>
   <span id="f000628">He begins,</span>
   <span id="f000629">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000630">vaguely to surmise that,</span>
   <span id="f000631">wonderful as it may be,</span>
   <span id="f000632">all the justice and all the reason is on the other side.</span>
   <span id="f000633">Accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f000634">if any disinterested persons are present,</span>
   <span id="f000635">he turns to them for some reinforcement for his own faltering mind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">“Turkey,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000637">“what do you think of this?</span>
   <span id="f000638">Am I not right?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">“With submission,</span>
   <span id="f000640">sir,” said Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000641">with his blandest tone,</span>
   <span id="f000642">“I think that you are.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">“Nippers,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000644">“what do <em>you</em> think of it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">“I think I should kick him out of the office.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">(The reader of nice perceptions will here perceive that,</span>
   <span id="f000647">it being morning,</span>
   <span id="f000648">Turkey’s answer is couched in polite and tranquil terms,</span>
   <span id="f000649">but Nippers replies in ill-tempered ones.</span>
   <span id="f000650">Or,</span>
   <span id="f000651">to repeat a previous sentence,</span>
   <span id="f000652">Nippers’ ugly mood was on duty and Turkey’s off.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">“Ginger Nut,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000654">willing to enlist the smallest suffrage in my behalf,</span>
   <span id="f000655">“what do you think of it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">“I think,</span>
   <span id="f000657">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000658">he’s a little <em>luny</em>,” replied Ginger Nut with a grin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">“You hear what they say,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000660">turning towards the screen,</span>
   <span id="f000661">“come forth and do your duty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">But he vouchsafed no reply.</span>
   <span id="f000663">I pondered a moment in sore perplexity.</span>
   <span id="f000664">But once more business hurried me.</span>
   <span id="f000665">I determined again to postpone the consideration of this dilemma to my future leisure.</span>
   <span id="f000666">With a little trouble we made out to examine the papers without Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000667">though at every page or two,</span>
   <span id="f000668">Turkey deferentially dropped his opinion that this proceeding was quite out of the common;</span>
   <span id="f000669">while Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000670">twitching in his chair with a dyspeptic nervousness,</span>
   <span id="f000671">ground out between his set teeth occasional hissing maledictions against the stubborn oaf behind the screen.</span>
   <span id="f000672">And for his</span>
   <span id="f000673">(Nippers’)</span>
   <span id="f000674">part,</span>
   <span id="f000675">this was the first and the last time he would do another man’s business without pay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">Meanwhile Bartleby sat in his hermitage,</span>
   <span id="f000677">oblivious to every thing but his own peculiar business there.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

