<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Some days passed,</span>
   <span id="f000003">the scrivener being employed upon another lengthy work.</span>
   <span id="f000004">His late remarkable conduct led me to regard his ways narrowly.</span>
   <span id="f000005">I observed that he never went to dinner;</span>
   <span id="f000006">indeed that he never went any where.</span>
   <span id="f000007">As yet I had never of my personal knowledge known him to be outside of my office.</span>
   <span id="f000008">He was a perpetual sentry in the corner.</span>
   <span id="f000009">At about eleven o’clock though,</span>
   <span id="f000010">in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000011">I noticed that Ginger Nut would advance toward the opening in Bartleby’s screen,</span>
   <span id="f000012">as if silently beckoned thither by a gesture invisible to me where I sat.</span>
   <span id="f000013">The boy would then leave the office jingling a few pence,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and reappear with a handful of ginger-nuts which he delivered in the hermitage,</span>
   <span id="f000015">receiving two of the cakes for his trouble.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">He lives,</span>
   <span id="f000017">then,</span>
   <span id="f000018">on ginger-nuts,</span>
   <span id="f000019">thought I;</span>
   <span id="f000020">never eats a dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000021">properly speaking;</span>
   <span id="f000022">he must be a vegetarian then;</span>
   <span id="f000023">but no;</span>
   <span id="f000024">he never eats even vegetables,</span>
   <span id="f000025">he eats nothing but ginger-nuts.</span>
   <span id="f000026">My mind then ran on in reveries concerning the probable effects upon the human constitution of living entirely on ginger-nuts.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Ginger-nuts are so called because they contain ginger as one of their peculiar constituents,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and the final flavoring one.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Now what was ginger?</span>
   <span id="f000030">A hot,</span>
   <span id="f000031">spicy thing.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Was Bartleby hot and spicy?</span>
   <span id="f000033">Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Ginger,</span>
   <span id="f000035">then,</span>
   <span id="f000036">had no effect upon Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Probably he preferred it should have none.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">Nothing so aggravates an earnest person as a passive resistance.</span>
   <span id="f000039">If the individual so resisted be of a not inhumane temper,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and the resisting one perfectly harmless in his passivity;</span>
   <span id="f000041">then,</span>
   <span id="f000042">in the better moods of the former,</span>
   <span id="f000043">he will endeavor charitably to construe to his imagination what proves impossible to be solved by his judgment.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Even so,</span>
   <span id="f000045">for the most part,</span>
   <span id="f000046">I regarded Bartleby and his ways.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Poor fellow!</span>
   <span id="f000048">thought I,</span>
   <span id="f000049">he means no mischief;</span>
   <span id="f000050">it is plain he intends no insolence;</span>
   <span id="f000051">his aspect sufficiently evinces that his eccentricities are involuntary.</span>
   <span id="f000052">He is useful to me.</span>
   <span id="f000053">I can get along with him.</span>
   <span id="f000054">If I turn him away,</span>
   <span id="f000055">the chances are he will fall in with some less indulgent employer,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and then he will be rudely treated,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and perhaps driven forth miserably to starve.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Here I can cheaply purchase a delicious self-approval.</span>
   <span id="f000060">To befriend Bartleby;</span>
   <span id="f000061">to humor him in his strange willfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000062">will cost me little or nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000063">while I lay up in my soul what will eventually prove a sweet morsel for my conscience.</span>
   <span id="f000064">But this mood was not invariable with me.</span>
   <span id="f000065">The passiveness of Bartleby sometimes irritated me.</span>
   <span id="f000066">I felt strangely goaded on to encounter him in new opposition,</span>
   <span id="f000067">to elicit some angry spark from him answerable to my own.</span>
   <span id="f000068">But indeed I might as well have essayed to strike fire with my knuckles against a bit of Windsor soap.</span>
   <span id="f000069">But one afternoon the evil impulse in me mastered me,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and the following little scene ensued:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000072">“when those papers are all copied,</span>
   <span id="f000073">I will compare them with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“I would prefer not to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“How?</span>
   <span id="f000076">Surely you do not mean to persist in that mulish vagary?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">No answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">I threw open the folding-doors near by,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and turning upon Turkey and Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000080">exclaimed in an excited manner –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“He says,</span>
   <span id="f000082">a second time,</span>
   <span id="f000083">he won’t examine his papers.</span>
   <span id="f000084">What do you think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000085">Turkey?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">It was afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000087">be it remembered.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Turkey sat glowing like a brass boiler,</span>
   <span id="f000089">his bald head steaming,</span>
   <span id="f000090">his hands reeling among his blotted papers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">“Think of it?” roared Turkey;</span>
   <span id="f000092">“I think I’ll just step behind his screen,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and black his eyes for him!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">So saying,</span>
   <span id="f000095">Turkey rose to his feet and threw his arms into a pugilistic position.</span>
   <span id="f000096">He was hurrying away to make good his promise,</span>
   <span id="f000097">when I detained him,</span>
   <span id="f000098">alarmed at the effect of incautiously rousing Turkey’s combativeness after dinner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“Sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000100">Turkey,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000101">“and hear what Nippers has to say.</span>
   <span id="f000102">What do you think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000103">Nippers?</span>
   <span id="f000104">Would I not be justified in immediately dismissing Bartleby?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“Excuse me,</span>
   <span id="f000106">that is for you to decide,</span>
   <span id="f000107">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000108">I think his conduct quite unusual,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and indeed unjust,</span>
   <span id="f000110">as regards Turkey and myself.</span>
   <span id="f000111">But it may only be a passing whim.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“Ah,” exclaimed I,</span>
   <span id="f000113">“you have strangely changed your mind then – you speak very gently of him now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“All beer,” cried Turkey;</span>
   <span id="f000115">“gentleness is effects of beer – Nippers and I dined together to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000116">You see how gentle <em>I</em> am,</span>
   <span id="f000117">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Shall I go and black his eyes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“You refer to Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000120">I suppose.</span>
   <span id="f000121">No,</span>
   <span id="f000122">not to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000123">Turkey,” I replied;</span>
   <span id="f000124">“pray,</span>
   <span id="f000125">put up your fists.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">I closed the doors,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and again advanced towards Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000128">I felt additional incentives tempting me to my fate.</span>
   <span id="f000129">I burned to be rebelled against again.</span>
   <span id="f000130">I remembered that Bartleby never left the office.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000132">“Ginger Nut is away;</span>
   <span id="f000133">just step round to the Post Office,</span>
   <span id="f000134">won’t you?</span>
   <span id="f000135">(it was but a three minute walk,)</span>
   <span id="f000136">and see if there is any thing for me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“I would prefer not to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“You <em>will</em> not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“I <em>prefer</em> not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">I staggered to my desk,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and sat there in a deep study.</span>
   <span id="f000142">My blind inveteracy returned.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Was there any other thing in which I could procure myself to be ignominiously repulsed by this lean,</span>
   <span id="f000144">penniless wight?</span>
   <span id="f000145">– my hired clerk?</span>
   <span id="f000146">What added thing is there,</span>
   <span id="f000147">perfectly reasonable,</span>
   <span id="f000148">that he will be sure to refuse to do?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“Bartleby!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">No answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“Bartleby,” in a louder tone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">No answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“Bartleby,” I roared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">Like a very ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000155">agreeably to the laws of magical invocation,</span>
   <span id="f000156">at the third summons,</span>
   <span id="f000157">he appeared at the entrance of his hermitage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">“Go to the next room,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and tell Nippers to come to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“I prefer not to,” he respectfully and slowly said,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and mildly disappeared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Very good,</span>
   <span id="f000163">Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000164">in a quiet sort of serenely severe self-possessed tone,</span>
   <span id="f000165">intimating the unalterable purpose of some terrible retribution very close at hand.</span>
   <span id="f000166">At the moment I half intended something of the kind.</span>
   <span id="f000167">But upon the whole,</span>
   <span id="f000168">as it was drawing towards my dinner-hour,</span>
   <span id="f000169">I thought it best to put on my hat and walk home for the day,</span>
   <span id="f000170">suffering much from perplexity and distress of mind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">Shall I acknowledge it?</span>
   <span id="f000172">The conclusion of this whole business was,</span>
   <span id="f000173">that it soon became a fixed fact of my chambers,</span>
   <span id="f000174">that a pale young scrivener,</span>
   <span id="f000175">by the name of Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and a desk there;</span>
   <span id="f000177">that he copied for me at the usual rate of four cents a folio</span>
   <span id="f000178">(one hundred words);</span>
   <span id="f000179">but he was permanently exempt from examining the work done by him,</span>
   <span id="f000180">that duty being transferred to Turkey and Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000181">one of compliment doubtless to their superior acuteness;</span>
   <span id="f000182">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000183">said Bartleby was never on any account to be dispatched on the most trivial errand of any sort;</span>
   <span id="f000184">and that even if entreated to take upon him such a matter,</span>
   <span id="f000185">it was generally understood that he would prefer not to – in other words,</span>
   <span id="f000186">that he would refuse pointblank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">As days passed on,</span>
   <span id="f000188">I became considerably reconciled to Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000189">His steadiness,</span>
   <span id="f000190">his freedom from all dissipation,</span>
   <span id="f000191">his incessant industry</span>
   <span id="f000192">(except when he chose to throw himself into a standing revery behind his screen),</span>
   <span id="f000193">his great stillness,</span>
   <span id="f000194">his unalterableness of demeanor under all circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000195">made him a valuable acquisition.</span>
   <span id="f000196">One prime thing was this,</span>
   <span id="f000197">– <em>he was always there;</em> – first in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000198">continually through the day,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and the last at night.</span>
   <span id="f000200">I had a singular confidence in his honesty.</span>
   <span id="f000201">I felt my most precious papers perfectly safe in his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Sometimes to be sure I could not,</span>
   <span id="f000203">for the very soul of me,</span>
   <span id="f000204">avoid falling into sudden spasmodic passions with him.</span>
   <span id="f000205">For it was exceeding difficult to bear in mind all the time those strange peculiarities,</span>
   <span id="f000206">privileges,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and unheard of exemptions,</span>
   <span id="f000208">forming the tacit stipulations on Bartleby’s part under which he remained in my office.</span>
   <span id="f000209">Now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000210">in the eagerness of dispatching pressing business,</span>
   <span id="f000211">I would inadvertently summon Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000212">in a short,</span>
   <span id="f000213">rapid tone,</span>
   <span id="f000214">to put his finger,</span>
   <span id="f000215">say,</span>
   <span id="f000216">on the incipient tie of a bit of red tape with which I was about compressing some papers.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000218">from behind the screen the usual answer,</span>
   <span id="f000219">“I prefer not to,” was sure to come;</span>
   <span id="f000220">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000221">how could a human creature with the common infirmities of our nature,</span>
   <span id="f000222">refrain from bitterly exclaiming upon such perverseness – such unreasonableness.</span>
   <span id="f000223">However,</span>
   <span id="f000224">every added repulse of this sort which I received only tended to lessen the probability of my repeating the inadvertence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">Here it must be said,</span>
   <span id="f000226">that according to the custom of most legal gentlemen occupying chambers in densely-populated law buildings,</span>
   <span id="f000227">there were several keys to my door.</span>
   <span id="f000228">One was kept by a woman residing in the attic,</span>
   <span id="f000229">which person weekly scrubbed and daily swept and dusted my apartments.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Another was kept by Turkey for convenience sake.</span>
   <span id="f000231">The third I sometimes carried in my own pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The fourth I knew not who had.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000234">one Sunday morning I happened to go to Trinity Church,</span>
   <span id="f000235">to hear a celebrated preacher,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and finding myself rather early on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000237">I thought I would walk around to my chambers for a while.</span>
   <span id="f000238">Luckily I had my key with me;</span>
   <span id="f000239">but upon applying it to the lock,</span>
   <span id="f000240">I found it resisted by something inserted from the inside.</span>
   <span id="f000241">Quite surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000242">I called out;</span>
   <span id="f000243">when to my consternation a key was turned from within;</span>
   <span id="f000244">and thrusting his lean visage at me,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and holding the door ajar,</span>
   <span id="f000246">the apparition of Bartleby appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000247">in his shirt sleeves,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and otherwise in a strangely tattered dishabille,</span>
   <span id="f000249">saying quietly that he was sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000250">but he was deeply engaged just then,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and – preferred not admitting me at present.</span>
   <span id="f000252">In a brief word or two,</span>
   <span id="f000253">he moreover added,</span>
   <span id="f000254">that perhaps I had better walk round the block two or three times,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and by that time he would probably have concluded his affairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000257">the utterly unsurmised appearance of Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000258">tenanting my law-chambers of a Sunday morning,</span>
   <span id="f000259">with his cadaverously gentlemanly <em>nonchalance</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000260">yet withal firm and self-possessed,</span>
   <span id="f000261">had such a strange effect upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000262">that incontinently I slunk away from my own door,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and did as desired.</span>
   <span id="f000264">But not without sundry twinges of impotent rebellion against the mild effrontery of this unaccountable scrivener.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000266">it was his wonderful mildness chiefly,</span>
   <span id="f000267">which not only disarmed me,</span>
   <span id="f000268">but unmanned me,</span>
   <span id="f000269">as it were.</span>
   <span id="f000270">For I consider that one,</span>
   <span id="f000271">for the time,</span>
   <span id="f000272">is a sort of unmanned when he tranquilly permits his hired clerk to dictate to him,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and order him away from his own premises.</span>
   <span id="f000274">Furthermore,</span>
   <span id="f000275">I was full of uneasiness as to what Bartleby could possibly be doing in my office in his shirt sleeves,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and in an otherwise dismantled condition of a Sunday morning.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Was any thing amiss going on?</span>
   <span id="f000278">Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000279">that was out of the question.</span>
   <span id="f000280">It was not to be thought of for a moment that Bartleby was an immoral person.</span>
   <span id="f000281">But what could he be doing there?</span>
   <span id="f000282">– copying?</span>
   <span id="f000283">Nay again,</span>
   <span id="f000284">whatever might be his eccentricities,</span>
   <span id="f000285">Bartleby was an eminently decorous person.</span>
   <span id="f000286">He would be the last man to sit down to his desk in any state approaching to nudity.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000288">it was Sunday;</span>
   <span id="f000289">and there was something about Bartleby that forbade the supposition that he would by any secular occupation violate the proprieties of the day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000291">my mind was not pacified;</span>
   <span id="f000292">and full of a restless curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000293">at last I returned to the door.</span>
   <span id="f000294">Without hindrance I inserted my key,</span>
   <span id="f000295">opened it,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and entered.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Bartleby was not to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000298">I looked round anxiously,</span>
   <span id="f000299">peeped behind his screen;</span>
   <span id="f000300">but it was very plain that he was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000301">Upon more closely examining the place,</span>
   <span id="f000302">I surmised that for an indefinite period Bartleby must have ate,</span>
   <span id="f000303">dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and slept in my office,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and that too without plate,</span>
   <span id="f000306">mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000307">or bed.</span>
   <span id="f000308">The cushioned seat of a rickety old sofa in one corner bore the faint impress of a lean,</span>
   <span id="f000309">reclining form.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Rolled away under his desk,</span>
   <span id="f000311">I found a blanket;</span>
   <span id="f000312">under the empty grate,</span>
   <span id="f000313">a blacking box and brush;</span>
   <span id="f000314">on a chair,</span>
   <span id="f000315">a tin basin,</span>
   <span id="f000316">with soap and a ragged towel;</span>
   <span id="f000317">in a newspaper a few crumbs of ginger-nuts and a morsel of cheese.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000319">thought I,</span>
   <span id="f000320">it is evident enough that Bartleby has been making his home here,</span>
   <span id="f000321">keeping bachelor’s hall all by himself.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Immediately then the thought came sweeping across me,</span>
   <span id="f000323">What miserable friendlessness and loneliness are here revealed!</span>
   <span id="f000324">His poverty is great;</span>
   <span id="f000325">but his solitude,</span>
   <span id="f000326">how horrible!</span>
   <span id="f000327">Think of it.</span>
   <span id="f000328">Of a Sunday,</span>
   <span id="f000329">Wall-street is deserted as Petra;</span>
   <span id="f000330">and every night of every day it is an emptiness.</span>
   <span id="f000331">This building too,</span>
   <span id="f000332">which of week-days hums with industry and life,</span>
   <span id="f000333">at nightfall echoes with sheer vacancy,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and all through Sunday is forlorn.</span>
   <span id="f000335">And here Bartleby makes his home;</span>
   <span id="f000336">sole spectator of a solitude which he has seen all populous – a sort of innocent and transformed Marius brooding among the ruins of Carthage!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">For the first time in my life a feeling of overpowering stinging melancholy seized me.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Before,</span>
   <span id="f000339">I had never experienced aught but a not-unpleasing sadness.</span>
   <span id="f000340">The bond of a common humanity now drew me irresistibly to gloom.</span>
   <span id="f000341">A fraternal melancholy!</span>
   <span id="f000342">For both I and Bartleby were sons of Adam.</span>
   <span id="f000343">I remembered the bright silks and sparkling faces I had seen that day,</span>
   <span id="f000344">in gala trim,</span>
   <span id="f000345">swan-like sailing down the Mississippi of Broadway;</span>
   <span id="f000346">and I contrasted them with the pallid copyist,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and thought to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000348">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000349">happiness courts the light,</span>
   <span id="f000350">so we deem the world is gay;</span>
   <span id="f000351">but misery hides aloof,</span>
   <span id="f000352">so we deem that misery there is none.</span>
   <span id="f000353">These sad fancyings – chimeras,</span>
   <span id="f000354">doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f000355">of a sick and silly brain – led on to other and more special thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000356">concerning the eccentricities of Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000357">Presentiments of strange discoveries hovered round me.</span>
   <span id="f000358">The scrivener’s pale form appeared to me laid out,</span>
   <span id="f000359">among uncaring strangers,</span>
   <span id="f000360">in its shivering winding sheet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000361">Suddenly I was attracted by Bartleby’s closed desk,</span>
   <span id="f000362">the key in open sight left in the lock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">I mean no mischief,</span>
   <span id="f000364">seek the gratification of no heartless curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000365">thought I;</span>
   <span id="f000366">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000367">the desk is mine,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and its contents too,</span>
   <span id="f000369">so I will make bold to look within.</span>
   <span id="f000370">Every thing was methodically arranged,</span>
   <span id="f000371">the papers smoothly placed.</span>
   <span id="f000372">The pigeon holes were deep,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and removing the files of documents,</span>
   <span id="f000374">I groped into their recesses.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Presently I felt something there,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and dragged it out.</span>
   <span id="f000377">It was an old bandanna handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000378">heavy and knotted.</span>
   <span id="f000379">I opened it,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and saw it was a savings’ bank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">I now recalled all the quiet mysteries which I had noted in the man.</span>
   <span id="f000382">I remembered that he never spoke but to answer;</span>
   <span id="f000383">that though at intervals he had considerable time to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000384">yet I had never seen him reading – no,</span>
   <span id="f000385">not even a newspaper;</span>
   <span id="f000386">that for long periods he would stand looking out,</span>
   <span id="f000387">at his pale window behind the screen,</span>
   <span id="f000388">upon the dead brick wall;</span>
   <span id="f000389">I was quite sure he never visited any refectory or eating house;</span>
   <span id="f000390">while his pale face clearly indicated that he never drank beer like Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000391">or tea and coffee even,</span>
   <span id="f000392">like other men;</span>
   <span id="f000393">that he never went any where in particular that I could learn;</span>
   <span id="f000394">never went out for a walk,</span>
   <span id="f000395">unless indeed that was the case at present;</span>
   <span id="f000396">that he had declined telling who he was,</span>
   <span id="f000397">or whence he came,</span>
   <span id="f000398">or whether he had any relatives in the world;</span>
   <span id="f000399">that though so thin and pale,</span>
   <span id="f000400">he never complained of ill health.</span>
   <span id="f000401">And more than all,</span>
   <span id="f000402">I remembered a certain unconscious air of pallid – how shall I call it?</span>
   <span id="f000403">– of pallid haughtiness,</span>
   <span id="f000404">say,</span>
   <span id="f000405">or rather an austere reserve about him,</span>
   <span id="f000406">which had positively awed me into my tame compliance with his eccentricities,</span>
   <span id="f000407">when I had feared to ask him to do the slightest incidental thing for me,</span>
   <span id="f000408">even though I might know,</span>
   <span id="f000409">from his long-continued motionlessness,</span>
   <span id="f000410">that behind his screen he must be standing in one of those dead-wall reveries of his.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">Revolving all these things,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and coupling them with the recently discovered fact that he made my office his constant abiding place and home,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and not forgetful of his morbid moodiness;</span>
   <span id="f000414">revolving all these things,</span>
   <span id="f000415">a prudential feeling began to steal over me.</span>
   <span id="f000416">My first emotions had been those of pure melancholy and sincerest pity;</span>
   <span id="f000417">but just in proportion as the forlornness of Bartleby grew and grew to my imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000418">did that same melancholy merge into fear,</span>
   <span id="f000419">that pity into repulsion.</span>
   <span id="f000420">So true it is,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and so terrible too,</span>
   <span id="f000422">that up to a certain point the thought or sight of misery enlists our best affections;</span>
   <span id="f000423">but,</span>
   <span id="f000424">in certain special cases,</span>
   <span id="f000425">beyond that point it does not.</span>
   <span id="f000426">They err who would assert that invariably this is owing to the inherent selfishness of the human heart.</span>
   <span id="f000427">It rather proceeds from a certain hopelessness of remedying excessive and organic ill.</span>
   <span id="f000428">To a sensitive being,</span>
   <span id="f000429">pity is not seldom pain.</span>
   <span id="f000430">And when at last it is perceived that such pity cannot lead to effectual succor,</span>
   <span id="f000431">common sense bids the soul rid of it.</span>
   <span id="f000432">What I saw that morning persuaded me that the scrivener was the victim of innate and incurable disorder.</span>
   <span id="f000433">I might give alms to his body;</span>
   <span id="f000434">but his body did not pain him;</span>
   <span id="f000435">it was his soul that suffered,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and his soul I could not reach.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">I did not accomplish the purpose of going to Trinity Church that morning.</span>
   <span id="f000438">Somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000439">the things I had seen disqualified me for the time from church-going.</span>
   <span id="f000440">I walked homeward,</span>
   <span id="f000441">thinking what I would do with Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000442">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f000443">I resolved upon this;</span>
   <span id="f000444">– I would put certain calm questions to him the next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000445">touching his history,</span>
   <span id="f000446">etc.,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and if he declined to answer them openly and unreservedly</span>
   <span id="f000448">(and I supposed he would prefer not),</span>
   <span id="f000449">then to give him a twenty dollar bill over and above whatever I might owe him,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and tell him his services were no longer required;</span>
   <span id="f000451">but that if in any other way I could assist him,</span>
   <span id="f000452">I would be happy to do so,</span>
   <span id="f000453">especially if he desired to return to his native place,</span>
   <span id="f000454">wherever that might be,</span>
   <span id="f000455">I would willingly help to defray the expenses.</span>
   <span id="f000456">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000457">if,</span>
   <span id="f000458">after reaching home,</span>
   <span id="f000459">he found himself at any time in want of aid,</span>
   <span id="f000460">a letter from him would be sure of a reply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">The next morning came.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">“Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000463">gently calling to him behind his screen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">No reply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000466">in a still gentler tone,</span>
   <span id="f000467">“come here;</span>
   <span id="f000468">I am not going to ask you to do any thing you would prefer not to do – I simply wish to speak to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">Upon this he noiselessly slid into view.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">“Will you tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000471">Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000472">where you were born?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“I would prefer not to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">“Will you tell me <em>any thing</em> about yourself?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“I would prefer not to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">“But what reasonable objection can you have to speak to me?</span>
   <span id="f000477">I feel friendly towards you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">He did not look at me while I spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000479">but kept his glance fixed upon my bust of Cicero,</span>
   <span id="f000480">which as I then sat,</span>
   <span id="f000481">was directly behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000482">some six inches above my head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">“What is your answer,</span>
   <span id="f000484">Bartleby?” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000485">after waiting a considerable time for a reply,</span>
   <span id="f000486">during which his countenance remained immovable,</span>
   <span id="f000487">only there was the faintest conceivable tremor of the white attenuated mouth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“At present I prefer to give no answer,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and retired into his hermitage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">It was rather weak in me I confess,</span>
   <span id="f000491">but his manner on this occasion nettled me.</span>
   <span id="f000492">Not only did there seem to lurk in it a certain calm disdain,</span>
   <span id="f000493">but his perverseness seemed ungrateful,</span>
   <span id="f000494">considering the undeniable good usage and indulgence he had received from me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">Again I sat ruminating what I should do.</span>
   <span id="f000496">Mortified as I was at his behavior,</span>
   <span id="f000497">and resolved as I had been to dismiss him when I entered my offices,</span>
   <span id="f000498">nevertheless I strangely felt something superstitious knocking at my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and forbidding me to carry out my purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and denouncing me for a villain if I dared to breathe one bitter word against this forlornest of mankind.</span>
   <span id="f000501">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000502">familiarly drawing my chair behind his screen,</span>
   <span id="f000503">I sat down and said:</span>
   <span id="f000504">“Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000505">never mind then about revealing your history;</span>
   <span id="f000506">but let me entreat you,</span>
   <span id="f000507">as a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000508">to comply as far as may be with the usages of this office.</span>
   <span id="f000509">Say now you will help to examine papers to-morrow or next day:</span>
   <span id="f000510">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000511">say now that in a day or two you will begin to be a little reasonable:</span>
   <span id="f000512">– say so,</span>
   <span id="f000513">Bartleby.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">“At present I would prefer not to be a little reasonable,” was his mildly cadaverous reply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">Just then the folding-doors opened,</span>
   <span id="f000516">and Nippers approached.</span>
   <span id="f000517">He seemed suffering from an unusually bad night’s rest,</span>
   <span id="f000518">induced by severer indigestion than common.</span>
   <span id="f000519">He overheard those final words of Bartleby.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">“<em>Prefer not</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000521">eh?” gritted Nippers – “I’d <em>prefer</em> him,</span>
   <span id="f000522">if I were you,</span>
   <span id="f000523">sir,” addressing me – “I’d <em>prefer</em> him;</span>
   <span id="f000524">I’d give him preferences,</span>
   <span id="f000525">the stubborn mule!</span>
   <span id="f000526">What is it,</span>
   <span id="f000527">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000528">pray,</span>
   <span id="f000529">that he <em>prefers</em> not to do now?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">Bartleby moved not a limb.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">“Mr.&#160;Nippers,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000532">“I’d prefer that you would withdraw for the present.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">Somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000534">of late I had got into the way of involuntarily using this word “prefer” upon all sorts of not exactly suitable occasions.</span>
   <span id="f000535">And I trembled to think that my contact with the scrivener had already and seriously affected me in a mental way.</span>
   <span id="f000536">And what further and deeper aberration might it not yet produce?</span>
   <span id="f000537">This apprehension had not been without efficacy in determining me to summary means.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000538">As Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000539">looking very sour and sulky,</span>
   <span id="f000540">was departing,</span>
   <span id="f000541">Turkey blandly and deferentially approached.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“With submission,</span>
   <span id="f000543">sir,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000544">“yesterday I was thinking about Bartleby here,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and I think that if he would but prefer to take a quart of good ale every day,</span>
   <span id="f000546">it would do much towards mending him,</span>
   <span id="f000547">and enabling him to assist in examining his papers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“So you have got the word too,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000549">slightly excited.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">“With submission,</span>
   <span id="f000551">what word,</span>
   <span id="f000552">sir,” asked Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000553">respectfully crowding himself into the contracted space behind the screen,</span>
   <span id="f000554">and by so doing,</span>
   <span id="f000555">making me jostle the scrivener.</span>
   <span id="f000556">“What word,</span>
   <span id="f000557">sir?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">“I would prefer to be left alone here,” said Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000559">as if offended at being mobbed in his privacy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">“<em>That’s</em> the word,</span>
   <span id="f000561">Turkey,” said I – “that’s it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000563"><em>prefer</em>?</span>
   <span id="f000564">oh yes – queer word.</span>
   <span id="f000565">I never use it myself.</span>
   <span id="f000566">But,</span>
   <span id="f000567">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000568">as I was saying,</span>
   <span id="f000569">if he would but prefer – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">“Turkey,” interrupted I,</span>
   <span id="f000571">“you will please withdraw.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">“Oh certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000573">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000574">if you prefer that I should.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">As he opened the folding-door to retire,</span>
   <span id="f000576">Nippers at his desk caught a glimpse of me,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and asked whether I would prefer to have a certain paper copied on blue paper or white.</span>
   <span id="f000578">He did not in the least roguishly accent the word prefer.</span>
   <span id="f000579">It was plain that it involuntarily rolled form his tongue.</span>
   <span id="f000580">I thought to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000581">surely I must get rid of a demented man,</span>
   <span id="f000582">who already has in some degree turned the tongues,</span>
   <span id="f000583">if not the heads of myself and clerks.</span>
   <span id="f000584">But I thought it prudent not to break the dismission at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">The next day I noticed that Bartleby did nothing but stand at his window in his dead-wall revery.</span>
   <span id="f000586">Upon asking him why he did not write,</span>
   <span id="f000587">he said that he had decided upon doing no more writing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000589">how now?</span>
   <span id="f000590">what next?” exclaimed I,</span>
   <span id="f000591">“do no more writing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“No more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">“And what is the reason?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">“Do you not see the reason for yourself,” he indifferently replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">I looked steadfastly at him,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and perceived that his eyes looked dull and glazed.</span>
   <span id="f000597">Instantly it occurred to me,</span>
   <span id="f000598">that his unexampled diligence in copying by his dim window for the first few weeks of his stay with me might have temporarily impaired his vision.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">I was touched.</span>
   <span id="f000600">I said something in condolence with him.</span>
   <span id="f000601">I hinted that of course he did wisely in abstaining from writing for a while;</span>
   <span id="f000602">and urged him to embrace that opportunity of taking wholesome exercise in the open air.</span>
   <span id="f000603">This,</span>
   <span id="f000604">however,</span>
   <span id="f000605">he did not do.</span>
   <span id="f000606">A few days after this,</span>
   <span id="f000607">my other clerks being absent,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and being in a great hurry to dispatch certain letters by the mail,</span>
   <span id="f000609">I thought that,</span>
   <span id="f000610">having nothing else earthly to do,</span>
   <span id="f000611">Bartleby would surely be less inflexible than usual,</span>
   <span id="f000612">and carry these letters to the post-office.</span>
   <span id="f000613">But he blankly declined.</span>
   <span id="f000614">So,</span>
   <span id="f000615">much to my inconvenience,</span>
   <span id="f000616">I went myself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">Still added days went by.</span>
   <span id="f000618">Whether Bartleby’s eyes improved or not,</span>
   <span id="f000619">I could not say.</span>
   <span id="f000620">To all appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000621">I thought they did.</span>
   <span id="f000622">But when I asked him if they did,</span>
   <span id="f000623">he vouchsafed no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000624">At all events,</span>
   <span id="f000625">he would do no copying.</span>
   <span id="f000626">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000627">in reply to my urgings,</span>
   <span id="f000628">he informed me that he had permanently given up copying.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">“What!” exclaimed I;</span>
   <span id="f000630">“suppose your eyes should get entirely well – better than ever before – would you not copy then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">“I have given up copying,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and slid aside.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

