<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">He remained as ever,</span>
   <span id="f000003">a fixture in my chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000004">Nay – if that were possible – he became still more of a fixture than before.</span>
   <span id="f000005">What was to be done?</span>
   <span id="f000006">He would do nothing in the office:</span>
   <span id="f000007">why should he stay there?</span>
   <span id="f000008">In plain fact,</span>
   <span id="f000009">he had now become a millstone to me,</span>
   <span id="f000010">not only useless as a necklace,</span>
   <span id="f000011">but afflictive to bear.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Yet I was sorry for him.</span>
   <span id="f000013">I speak less than truth when I say that,</span>
   <span id="f000014">on his own account,</span>
   <span id="f000015">he occasioned me uneasiness.</span>
   <span id="f000016">If he would but have named a single relative or friend,</span>
   <span id="f000017">I would instantly have written,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and urged their taking the poor fellow away to some convenient retreat.</span>
   <span id="f000019">But he seemed alone,</span>
   <span id="f000020">absolutely alone in the universe.</span>
   <span id="f000021">A bit of wreck in the mid Atlantic.</span>
   <span id="f000022">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000023">necessities connected with my business tyrannized over all other considerations.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Decently as I could,</span>
   <span id="f000025">I told Bartleby that in six days’ time he must unconditionally leave the office.</span>
   <span id="f000026">I warned him to take measures,</span>
   <span id="f000027">in the interval,</span>
   <span id="f000028">for procuring some other abode.</span>
   <span id="f000029">I offered to assist him in this endeavor,</span>
   <span id="f000030">if he himself would but take the first step towards a removal.</span>
   <span id="f000031">“And when you finally quit me,</span>
   <span id="f000032">Bartleby,” added I,</span>
   <span id="f000033">“I shall see that you go not away entirely unprovided.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Six days from this hour,</span>
   <span id="f000035">remember.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">At the expiration of that period,</span>
   <span id="f000037">I peeped behind the screen,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and lo!</span>
   <span id="f000039">Bartleby was there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">I buttoned up my coat,</span>
   <span id="f000041">balanced myself;</span>
   <span id="f000042">advanced slowly towards him,</span>
   <span id="f000043">touched his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000045">“The time has come;</span>
   <span id="f000046">you must quit this place;</span>
   <span id="f000047">I am sorry for you;</span>
   <span id="f000048">here is money;</span>
   <span id="f000049">but you must go.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“I would prefer not,” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000051">with his back still towards me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“You <em>must</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">He remained silent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">Now I had an unbounded confidence in this man’s common honesty.</span>
   <span id="f000055">He had frequently restored to me sixpences and shillings carelessly dropped upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000056">for I am apt to be very reckless in such shirt-button affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000057">The proceeding then which followed will not be deemed extraordinary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000059">“I owe you twelve dollars on account;</span>
   <span id="f000060">here are thirty-two;</span>
   <span id="f000061">the odd twenty are yours.</span>
   <span id="f000062">– Will you take it?” and I handed the bills towards him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">But he made no motion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“I will leave them here then,” putting them under a weight on the table.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Then taking my hat and cane and going to the door I tranquilly turned and added – “After you have removed your things from these offices,</span>
   <span id="f000066">Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000067">you will of course lock the door – since every one is now gone for the day but you – and if you please,</span>
   <span id="f000068">slip your key underneath the mat,</span>
   <span id="f000069">so that I may have it in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000070">I shall not see you again;</span>
   <span id="f000071">so good-bye to you.</span>
   <span id="f000072">If hereafter in your new place of abode I can be of any service to you,</span>
   <span id="f000073">do not fail to advise me by letter.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f000075">Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and fare you well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">But he answered not a word;</span>
   <span id="f000078">like the last column of some ruined temple,</span>
   <span id="f000079">he remained standing mute and solitary in the middle of the otherwise deserted room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">As I walked home in a pensive mood,</span>
   <span id="f000081">my vanity got the better of my pity.</span>
   <span id="f000082">I could not but highly plume myself on my masterly management in getting rid of Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Masterly I call it,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and such it must appear to any dispassionate thinker.</span>
   <span id="f000085">The beauty of my procedure seemed to consist in its perfect quietness.</span>
   <span id="f000086">There was no vulgar bullying,</span>
   <span id="f000087">no bravado of any sort,</span>
   <span id="f000088">no choleric hectoring,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and striding to and fro across the apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000090">jerking out vehement commands for Bartleby to bundle himself off with his beggarly traps.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Nothing of the kind.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Without loudly bidding Bartleby depart – as an inferior genius might have done – I <em>assumed</em> the ground that depart he must;</span>
   <span id="f000093">and upon that assumption built all I had to say.</span>
   <span id="f000094">The more I thought over my procedure,</span>
   <span id="f000095">the more I was charmed with it.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000097">next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000098">upon awakening,</span>
   <span id="f000099">I had my doubts,</span>
   <span id="f000100">– I had somehow slept off the fumes of vanity.</span>
   <span id="f000101">One of the coolest and wisest hours a man has,</span>
   <span id="f000102">is just after he awakes in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000103">My procedure seemed as sagacious as ever.</span>
   <span id="f000104">– but only in theory.</span>
   <span id="f000105">How it would prove in practice – there was the rub.</span>
   <span id="f000106">It was truly a beautiful thought to have assumed Bartleby’s departure;</span>
   <span id="f000107">but,</span>
   <span id="f000108">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000109">that assumption was simply my own,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and none of Bartleby’s.</span>
   <span id="f000111">The great point was,</span>
   <span id="f000112">not whether I had assumed that he would quit me,</span>
   <span id="f000113">but whether he would prefer so to do.</span>
   <span id="f000114">He was more a man of preferences than assumptions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">After breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000116">I walked down town,</span>
   <span id="f000117">arguing the probabilities <em>pro</em> and <em>con</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000118">One moment I thought it would prove a miserable failure,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and Bartleby would be found all alive at my office as usual;</span>
   <span id="f000120">the next moment it seemed certain that I should see his chair empty.</span>
   <span id="f000121">And so I kept veering about.</span>
   <span id="f000122">At the corner of Broadway and Canal-street,</span>
   <span id="f000123">I saw quite an excited group of people standing in earnest conversation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“I’ll take odds he doesn’t,” said a voice as I passed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">“Doesn’t go?</span>
   <span id="f000126">– done!” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000127">“put up your money.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">I was instinctively putting my hand in my pocket to produce my own,</span>
   <span id="f000129">when I remembered that this was an election day.</span>
   <span id="f000130">The words I had overheard bore no reference to Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000131">but to the success or non-success of some candidate for the mayoralty.</span>
   <span id="f000132">In my intent frame of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000133">I had,</span>
   <span id="f000134">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000135">imagined that all Broadway shared in my excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and were debating the same question with me.</span>
   <span id="f000137">I passed on,</span>
   <span id="f000138">very thankful that the uproar of the street screened my momentary absent-mindedness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">As I had intended,</span>
   <span id="f000140">I was earlier than usual at my office door.</span>
   <span id="f000141">I stood listening for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000142">All was still.</span>
   <span id="f000143">He must be gone.</span>
   <span id="f000144">I tried the knob.</span>
   <span id="f000145">The door was locked.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000147">my procedure had worked to a charm;</span>
   <span id="f000148">he indeed must be vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000149">Yet a certain melancholy mixed with this:</span>
   <span id="f000150">I was almost sorry for my brilliant success.</span>
   <span id="f000151">I was fumbling under the door mat for the key,</span>
   <span id="f000152">which Bartleby was to have left there for me,</span>
   <span id="f000153">when accidentally my knee knocked against a panel,</span>
   <span id="f000154">producing a summoning sound,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and in response a voice came to me from within – “Not yet;</span>
   <span id="f000156">I am occupied.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">It was Bartleby.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">I was thunderstruck.</span>
   <span id="f000159">For an instant I stood like the man who,</span>
   <span id="f000160">pipe in mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000161">was killed one cloudless afternoon long ago in Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f000162">by a summer lightning;</span>
   <span id="f000163">at his own warm open window he was killed,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and remained leaning out there upon the dreamy afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000165">till some one touched him,</span>
   <span id="f000166">when he fell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“Not gone!” I murmured at last.</span>
   <span id="f000168">But again obeying that wondrous ascendancy which the inscrutable scrivener had over me,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and from which ascendancy,</span>
   <span id="f000170">for all my chafing,</span>
   <span id="f000171">I could not completely escape,</span>
   <span id="f000172">I slowly went down stairs and out into the street,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and while walking round the block,</span>
   <span id="f000174">considered what I should next do in this unheard-of perplexity.</span>
   <span id="f000175">Turn the man out by an actual thrusting I could not;</span>
   <span id="f000176">to drive him away by calling him hard names would not do;</span>
   <span id="f000177">calling in the police was an unpleasant idea;</span>
   <span id="f000178">and yet,</span>
   <span id="f000179">permit him to enjoy his cadaverous triumph over me,</span>
   <span id="f000180">– this too I could not think of.</span>
   <span id="f000181">What was to be done?</span>
   <span id="f000182">or,</span>
   <span id="f000183">if nothing could be done,</span>
   <span id="f000184">was there any thing further that I could <em>assume</em> in the matter?</span>
   <span id="f000185">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000186">as before I had prospectively assumed that Bartleby would depart,</span>
   <span id="f000187">so now I might retrospectively assume that departed he was.</span>
   <span id="f000188">In the legitimate carrying out of this assumption,</span>
   <span id="f000189">I might enter my office in a great hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and pretending not to see Bartleby at all,</span>
   <span id="f000191">walk straight against him as if he were air.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Such a proceeding would in a singular degree have the appearance of a home-thrust.</span>
   <span id="f000193">It was hardly possible that Bartleby could withstand such an application of the doctrine of assumptions.</span>
   <span id="f000194">But upon second thoughts the success of the plan seemed rather dubious.</span>
   <span id="f000195">I resolved to argue the matter over with him again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000197">entering the office,</span>
   <span id="f000198">with a quietly severe expression,</span>
   <span id="f000199">“I am seriously displeased.</span>
   <span id="f000200">I am pained,</span>
   <span id="f000201">Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000202">I had thought better of you.</span>
   <span id="f000203">I had imagined you of such a gentlemanly organization,</span>
   <span id="f000204">that in any delicate dilemma a slight hint would have suffice – in short,</span>
   <span id="f000205">an assumption.</span>
   <span id="f000206">But it appears I am deceived.</span>
   <span id="f000207">Why,” I added,</span>
   <span id="f000208">unaffectedly starting,</span>
   <span id="f000209">“you have not even touched that money yet,” pointing to it,</span>
   <span id="f000210">just where I had left it the evening previous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">He answered nothing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Will you,</span>
   <span id="f000213">or will you not,</span>
   <span id="f000214">quit me?” I now demanded in a sudden passion,</span>
   <span id="f000215">advancing close to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“I would prefer <em>not</em> to quit you,” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000217">gently emphasizing the <em>not</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“What earthly right have you to stay here?</span>
   <span id="f000219">Do you pay any rent?</span>
   <span id="f000220">Do you pay my taxes?</span>
   <span id="f000221">Or is this property yours?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">He answered nothing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“Are you ready to go on and write now?</span>
   <span id="f000224">Are your eyes recovered?</span>
   <span id="f000225">Could you copy a small paper for me this morning?</span>
   <span id="f000226">or help examine a few lines?</span>
   <span id="f000227">or step round to the post-office?</span>
   <span id="f000228">In a word,</span>
   <span id="f000229">will you do any thing at all,</span>
   <span id="f000230">to give a coloring to your refusal to depart the premises?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">He silently retired into his hermitage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">I was now in such a state of nervous resentment that I thought it but prudent to check myself at present from further demonstrations.</span>
   <span id="f000233">Bartleby and I were alone.</span>
   <span id="f000234">I remembered the tragedy of the unfortunate Adams and the still more unfortunate Colt in the solitary office of the latter;</span>
   <span id="f000235">and how poor Colt,</span>
   <span id="f000236">being dreadfully incensed by Adams,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and imprudently permitting himself to get wildly excited,</span>
   <span id="f000238">was at unawares hurried into his fatal act – an act which certainly no man could possibly deplore more than the actor himself.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Often it had occurred to me in my ponderings upon the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000240">that had that altercation taken place in the public street,</span>
   <span id="f000241">or at a private residence,</span>
   <span id="f000242">it would not have terminated as it did.</span>
   <span id="f000243">It was the circumstance of being alone in a solitary office,</span>
   <span id="f000244">up stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000245">of a building entirely unhallowed by humanizing domestic associations – an uncarpeted office,</span>
   <span id="f000246">doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f000247">of a dusty,</span>
   <span id="f000248">haggard sort of appearance;</span>
   <span id="f000249">– this it must have been,</span>
   <span id="f000250">which greatly helped to enhance the irritable desperation of the hapless Colt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">But when this old Adam of resentment rose in me and tempted me concerning Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000252">I grappled him and threw him.</span>
   <span id="f000253">How?</span>
   <span id="f000254">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000255">simply by recalling the divine injunction:</span>
   <span id="f000256">“A new commandment give I unto you,</span>
   <span id="f000257">that ye love one another.” Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000258">this it was that saved me.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Aside from higher considerations,</span>
   <span id="f000260">charity often operates as a vastly wise and prudent principle – a great safeguard to its possessor.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Men have committed murder for jealousy’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and anger’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and hatred’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and selfishness’ sake,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and spiritual pride’s sake;</span>
   <span id="f000266">but no man that ever I heard of,</span>
   <span id="f000267">ever committed a diabolical murder for sweet charity’s sake.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Mere self-interest,</span>
   <span id="f000269">then,</span>
   <span id="f000270">if no better motive can be enlisted,</span>
   <span id="f000271">should,</span>
   <span id="f000272">especially with high-tempered men,</span>
   <span id="f000273">prompt all beings to charity and philanthropy.</span>
   <span id="f000274">At any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000275">upon the occasion in question,</span>
   <span id="f000276">I strove to drown my exasperated feelings towards the scrivener by benevolently construing his conduct.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000278">poor fellow!</span>
   <span id="f000279">thought I,</span>
   <span id="f000280">he don’t mean any thing;</span>
   <span id="f000281">and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000282">he has seen hard times,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and ought to be indulged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">I endeavored also immediately to occupy myself,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and at the same time to comfort my despondency.</span>
   <span id="f000286">I tried to fancy that in the course of the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000287">at such time as might prove agreeable to him,</span>
   <span id="f000288">Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000289">of his own free accord,</span>
   <span id="f000290">would emerge from his hermitage,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and take up some decided line of march in the direction of the door.</span>
   <span id="f000292">But no.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Half-past twelve o’clock came;</span>
   <span id="f000294">Turkey began to glow in the face,</span>
   <span id="f000295">overturn his inkstand,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and become generally obstreperous;</span>
   <span id="f000297">Nippers abated down into quietude and courtesy;</span>
   <span id="f000298">Ginger Nut munched his noon apple;</span>
   <span id="f000299">and Bartleby remained standing at his window in one of his profoundest dead-wall reveries.</span>
   <span id="f000300">Will it be credited?</span>
   <span id="f000301">Ought I to acknowledge it?</span>
   <span id="f000302">That afternoon I left the office without saying one further word to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">Some days now passed,</span>
   <span id="f000304">during which,</span>
   <span id="f000305">at leisure intervals I looked a little into “Edwards on the Will,” and “Priestly on Necessity.” Under the circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000306">those books induced a salutary feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Gradually I slid into the persuasion that these troubles of mine touching the scrivener,</span>
   <span id="f000308">had been all predestinated from eternity,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and Bartleby was billeted upon me for some mysterious purpose of an all-wise Providence,</span>
   <span id="f000310">which it was not for a mere mortal like me to fathom.</span>
   <span id="f000311">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000312">Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000313">stay there behind your screen,</span>
   <span id="f000314">thought I;</span>
   <span id="f000315">I shall persecute you no more;</span>
   <span id="f000316">you are harmless and noiseless as any of these old chairs;</span>
   <span id="f000317">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000318">I never feel so private as when I know you are here.</span>
   <span id="f000319">At last I see it,</span>
   <span id="f000320">I feel it;</span>
   <span id="f000321">I penetrate to the predestinated purpose of my life.</span>
   <span id="f000322">I am content.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Others may have loftier parts to enact;</span>
   <span id="f000324">but my mission in this world,</span>
   <span id="f000325">Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000326">is to furnish you with office-room for such period as you may see fit to remain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">I believe that this wise and blessed frame of mind would have continued with me,</span>
   <span id="f000328">had it not been for the unsolicited and uncharitable remarks obtruded upon me by my professional friends who visited the rooms.</span>
   <span id="f000329">But thus it often is,</span>
   <span id="f000330">that the constant friction of illiberal minds wears out at last the best resolves of the more generous.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Though to be sure,</span>
   <span id="f000332">when I reflected upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000333">it was not strange that people entering my office should be struck by the peculiar aspect of the unaccountable Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and so be tempted to throw out some sinister observations concerning him.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Sometimes an attorney having business with me,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and calling at my office and finding no one but the scrivener there,</span>
   <span id="f000337">would undertake to obtain some sort of precise information from him touching my whereabouts;</span>
   <span id="f000338">but without heeding his idle talk,</span>
   <span id="f000339">Bartleby would remain standing immovable in the middle of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000340">So after contemplating him in that position for a time,</span>
   <span id="f000341">the attorney would depart,</span>
   <span id="f000342">no wiser than he came.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000344">when a Reference was going on,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and the room full of lawyers and witnesses and business was driving fast;</span>
   <span id="f000346">some deeply occupied legal gentleman present,</span>
   <span id="f000347">seeing Bartleby wholly unemployed,</span>
   <span id="f000348">would request him to run round to his</span>
   <span id="f000349">(the legal gentleman’s)</span>
   <span id="f000350">office and fetch some papers for him.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Thereupon,</span>
   <span id="f000352">Bartleby would tranquilly decline,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and yet remain idle as before.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Then the lawyer would give a great stare,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and turn to me.</span>
   <span id="f000356">And what could I say?</span>
   <span id="f000357">At last I was made aware that all through the circle of my professional acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f000358">a whisper of wonder was running round,</span>
   <span id="f000359">having reference to the strange creature I kept at my office.</span>
   <span id="f000360">This worried me very much.</span>
   <span id="f000361">And as the idea came upon me of his possibly turning out a long-lived man,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and keep occupying my chambers,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and denying my authority;</span>
   <span id="f000364">and perplexing my visitors;</span>
   <span id="f000365">and scandalizing my professional reputation;</span>
   <span id="f000366">and casting a general gloom over the premises;</span>
   <span id="f000367">keeping soul and body together to the last upon his savings</span>
   <span id="f000368">(for doubtless he spent but half a dime a day),</span>
   <span id="f000369">and in the end perhaps outlive me,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and claim possession of my office by right of his perpetual occupancy:</span>
   <span id="f000371">as all these dark anticipations crowded upon me more and more,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and my friends continually intruded their relentless remarks upon the apparition in my room;</span>
   <span id="f000373">a great change was wrought in me.</span>
   <span id="f000374">I resolved to gather all my faculties together,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and for ever rid me of this intolerable incubus.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">Ere revolving any complicated project,</span>
   <span id="f000377">however,</span>
   <span id="f000378">adapted to this end,</span>
   <span id="f000379">I first simply suggested to Bartleby the propriety of his permanent departure.</span>
   <span id="f000380">In a calm and serious tone,</span>
   <span id="f000381">I commended the idea to his careful and mature consideration.</span>
   <span id="f000382">But having taken three days to meditate upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000383">he apprised me that his original determination remained the same;</span>
   <span id="f000384">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000385">that he still preferred to abide with me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">What shall I do?</span>
   <span id="f000387">I now said to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000388">buttoning up my coat to the last button.</span>
   <span id="f000389">What shall I do?</span>
   <span id="f000390">what ought I to do?</span>
   <span id="f000391">what does conscience say I <em>should</em> do with this man,</span>
   <span id="f000392">or rather ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000393">Rid myself of him,</span>
   <span id="f000394">I must;</span>
   <span id="f000395">go,</span>
   <span id="f000396">he shall.</span>
   <span id="f000397">But how?</span>
   <span id="f000398">You will not thrust him,</span>
   <span id="f000399">the poor,</span>
   <span id="f000400">pale,</span>
   <span id="f000401">passive mortal,</span>
   <span id="f000402">– you will not thrust such a helpless creature out of your door?</span>
   <span id="f000403">you will not dishonor yourself by such cruelty?</span>
   <span id="f000404">No,</span>
   <span id="f000405">I will not,</span>
   <span id="f000406">I cannot do that.</span>
   <span id="f000407">Rather would I let him live and die here,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and then mason up his remains in the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000409">What then will you do?</span>
   <span id="f000410">For all your coaxing,</span>
   <span id="f000411">he will not budge.</span>
   <span id="f000412">Bribes he leaves under your own paperweight on your table;</span>
   <span id="f000413">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000414">it is quite plain that he prefers to cling to you.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">Then something severe,</span>
   <span id="f000416">something unusual must be done.</span>
   <span id="f000417">What!</span>
   <span id="f000418">surely you will not have him collared by a constable,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and commit his innocent pallor to the common jail?</span>
   <span id="f000420">And upon what ground could you procure such a thing to be done?</span>
   <span id="f000421">– a vagrant,</span>
   <span id="f000422">is he?</span>
   <span id="f000423">What!</span>
   <span id="f000424">he a vagrant,</span>
   <span id="f000425">a wanderer,</span>
   <span id="f000426">who refuses to budge?</span>
   <span id="f000427">It is because he will <em>not</em> be a vagrant,</span>
   <span id="f000428">then,</span>
   <span id="f000429">that you seek to count him <em>as</em> a vagrant.</span>
   <span id="f000430">That is too absurd.</span>
   <span id="f000431">No visible means of support:</span>
   <span id="f000432">there I have him.</span>
   <span id="f000433">Wrong again:</span>
   <span id="f000434">for indubitably he <em>does</em> support himself,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and that is the only unanswerable proof that any man can show of his possessing the means so to do.</span>
   <span id="f000436">No more then.</span>
   <span id="f000437">Since he will not quit me,</span>
   <span id="f000438">I must quit him.</span>
   <span id="f000439">I will change my offices;</span>
   <span id="f000440">I will move elsewhere;</span>
   <span id="f000441">and give him fair notice,</span>
   <span id="f000442">that if I find him on my new premises I will then proceed against him as a common trespasser.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">Acting accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f000444">next day I thus addressed him:</span>
   <span id="f000445">“I find these chambers too far from the City Hall;</span>
   <span id="f000446">the air is unwholesome.</span>
   <span id="f000447">In a word,</span>
   <span id="f000448">I propose to remove my offices next week,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and shall no longer require your services.</span>
   <span id="f000450">I tell you this now,</span>
   <span id="f000451">in order that you may seek another place.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">He made no reply,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and nothing more was said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">On the appointed day I engaged carts and men,</span>
   <span id="f000455">proceeded to my chambers,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and having but little furniture,</span>
   <span id="f000457">every thing was removed in a few hours.</span>
   <span id="f000458">Throughout,</span>
   <span id="f000459">the scrivener remained standing behind the screen,</span>
   <span id="f000460">which I directed to be removed the last thing.</span>
   <span id="f000461">It was withdrawn;</span>
   <span id="f000462">and being folded up like a huge folio,</span>
   <span id="f000463">left him the motionless occupant of a naked room.</span>
   <span id="f000464">I stood in the entry watching him a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000465">while something from within me upbraided me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">I re-entered,</span>
   <span id="f000467">with my hand in my pocket – and – and my heart in my mouth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“Good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f000469">Bartleby;</span>
   <span id="f000470">I am going – good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f000471">and God some way bless you;</span>
   <span id="f000472">and take that,” slipping something in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000473">But it dropped upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000475">– strange to say – I tore myself from him whom I had so longed to be rid of.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

