<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Established in my new quarters,</span>
   <span id="f000003">for a day or two I kept the door locked,</span>
   <span id="f000004">and started at every footfall in the passages.</span>
   <span id="f000005">When I returned to my rooms after any little absence,</span>
   <span id="f000006">I would pause at the threshold for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and attentively listen,</span>
   <span id="f000008">ere applying my key.</span>
   <span id="f000009">But these fears were needless.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Bartleby never came nigh me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">I thought all was going well,</span>
   <span id="f000012">when a perturbed looking stranger visited me,</span>
   <span id="f000013">inquiring whether I was the person who had recently occupied rooms at No.</span>
   <span id="f000014">– Wall-street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">Full of forebodings,</span>
   <span id="f000016">I replied that I was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“Then sir,” said the stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000018">who proved a lawyer,</span>
   <span id="f000019">“you are responsible for the man you left there.</span>
   <span id="f000020">He refuses to do any copying;</span>
   <span id="f000021">he refuses to do any thing;</span>
   <span id="f000022">he says he prefers not to;</span>
   <span id="f000023">and he refuses to quit the premises.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">“I am very sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000025">sir,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000026">with assumed tranquility,</span>
   <span id="f000027">but an inward tremor,</span>
   <span id="f000028">“but,</span>
   <span id="f000029">really,</span>
   <span id="f000030">the man you allude to is nothing to me – he is no relation or apprentice of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000031">that you should hold me responsible for him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">“In mercy’s name,</span>
   <span id="f000033">who is he?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“I certainly cannot inform you.</span>
   <span id="f000035">I know nothing about him.</span>
   <span id="f000036">Formerly I employed him as a copyist;</span>
   <span id="f000037">but he has done nothing for me now for some time past.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“I shall settle him then,</span>
   <span id="f000039">– good morning,</span>
   <span id="f000040">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">Several days passed,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and I heard nothing more;</span>
   <span id="f000043">and though I often felt a charitable prompting to call at the place and see poor Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000044">yet a certain squeamishness of I know not what withheld me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">All is over with him,</span>
   <span id="f000046">by this time,</span>
   <span id="f000047">thought I at last,</span>
   <span id="f000048">when through another week no further intelligence reached me.</span>
   <span id="f000049">But coming to my room the day after,</span>
   <span id="f000050">I found several persons waiting at my door in a high state of nervous excitement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“That’s the man – here he comes,” cried the foremost one,</span>
   <span id="f000052">whom I recognized as the lawyer who had previously called upon me alone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“You must take him away,</span>
   <span id="f000054">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000055">at once,” cried a portly person among them,</span>
   <span id="f000056">advancing upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and whom I knew to be the landlord of No.</span>
   <span id="f000058">– Wall-street.</span>
   <span id="f000059">“These gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000060">my tenants,</span>
   <span id="f000061">cannot stand it any longer;</span>
   <span id="f000062">Mr.&#160;B – ” pointing to the lawyer,</span>
   <span id="f000063">“has turned him out of his room,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and he now persists in haunting the building generally,</span>
   <span id="f000065">sitting upon the banisters of the stairs by day,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and sleeping in the entry by night.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Every body is concerned;</span>
   <span id="f000068">clients are leaving the offices;</span>
   <span id="f000069">some fears are entertained of a mob;</span>
   <span id="f000070">something you must do,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and that without delay.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Aghast at this torrent,</span>
   <span id="f000073">I fell back before it,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and would fain have locked myself in my new quarters.</span>
   <span id="f000075">In vain I persisted that Bartleby was nothing to me – no more than to any one else.</span>
   <span id="f000076">In vain:</span>
   <span id="f000077">– I was the last person known to have any thing to do with him,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and they held me to the terrible account.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Fearful then of being exposed in the papers</span>
   <span id="f000080">(as one person present obscurely threatened)</span>
   <span id="f000081">I considered the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and at length said,</span>
   <span id="f000083">that if the lawyer would give me a confidential interview with the scrivener,</span>
   <span id="f000084">in his</span>
   <span id="f000085">(the lawyer’s)</span>
   <span id="f000086">own room,</span>
   <span id="f000087">I would that afternoon strive my best to rid them of the nuisance they complained of.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">Going up stairs to my old haunt,</span>
   <span id="f000089">there was Bartleby silently sitting upon the banister at the landing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“What are you doing here,</span>
   <span id="f000091">Bartleby?” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Sitting upon the banister,” he mildly replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">I motioned him into the lawyer’s room,</span>
   <span id="f000094">who then left us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000096">“are you aware that you are the cause of great tribulation to me,</span>
   <span id="f000097">by persisting in occupying the entry after being dismissed from the office?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">No answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“Now one of two things must take place.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Either you must do something,</span>
   <span id="f000101">or something must be done to you.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Now what sort of business would you like to engage in?</span>
   <span id="f000103">Would you like to re-engage in copying for some one?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000105">I would prefer not to make any change.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Would you like a clerkship in a dry-goods store?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“There is too much confinement about that.</span>
   <span id="f000108">No,</span>
   <span id="f000109">I would not like a clerkship;</span>
   <span id="f000110">but I am not particular.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“Too much confinement,” I cried,</span>
   <span id="f000112">“why you keep yourself confined all the time!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“I would prefer not to take a clerkship,” he rejoined,</span>
   <span id="f000114">as if to settle that little item at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“How would a bar-tender’s business suit you?</span>
   <span id="f000116">There is no trying of the eyesight in that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“I would not like it at all;</span>
   <span id="f000118">though,</span>
   <span id="f000119">as I said before,</span>
   <span id="f000120">I am not particular.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">His unwonted wordiness inspirited me.</span>
   <span id="f000122">I returned to the charge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“Well then,</span>
   <span id="f000124">would you like to travel through the country collecting bills for the merchants?</span>
   <span id="f000125">That would improve your health.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000127">I would prefer to be doing something else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“How then would going as a companion to Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000129">to entertain some young gentleman with your conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000130">– how would that suit you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000132">It does not strike me that there is any thing definite about that.</span>
   <span id="f000133">I like to be stationary.</span>
   <span id="f000134">But I am not particular.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“Stationary you shall be then,” I cried,</span>
   <span id="f000136">now losing all patience,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and for the first time in all my exasperating connection with him fairly flying into a passion.</span>
   <span id="f000138">“If you do not go away from these premises before night,</span>
   <span id="f000139">I shall feel bound – indeed I <em>am</em> bound – to – to – to quit the premises myself!” I rather absurdly concluded,</span>
   <span id="f000140">knowing not with what possible threat to try to frighten his immobility into compliance.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Despairing of all further efforts,</span>
   <span id="f000142">I was precipitately leaving him,</span>
   <span id="f000143">when a final thought occurred to me – one which had not been wholly unindulged before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000145">in the kindest tone I could assume under such exciting circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000146">“will you go home with me now – not to my office,</span>
   <span id="f000147">but my dwelling – and remain there till we can conclude upon some convenient arrangement for you at our leisure?</span>
   <span id="f000148">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000149">let us start now,</span>
   <span id="f000150">right away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“No:</span>
   <span id="f000152">at present I would prefer not to make any change at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">I answered nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000154">but effectually dodging every one by the suddenness and rapidity of my flight,</span>
   <span id="f000155">rushed from the building,</span>
   <span id="f000156">ran up Wall-street towards Broadway,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and jumping into the first omnibus was soon removed from pursuit.</span>
   <span id="f000158">As soon as tranquility returned I distinctly perceived that I had now done all that I possibly could,</span>
   <span id="f000159">both in respect to the demands of the landlord and his tenants,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and with regard to my own desire and sense of duty,</span>
   <span id="f000161">to benefit Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and shield him from rude persecution.</span>
   <span id="f000163">I now strove to be entirely care-free and quiescent;</span>
   <span id="f000164">and my conscience justified me in the attempt;</span>
   <span id="f000165">though indeed it was not so successful as I could have wished.</span>
   <span id="f000166">So fearful was I of being again hunted out by the incensed landlord and his exasperated tenants,</span>
   <span id="f000167">that,</span>
   <span id="f000168">surrendering my business to Nippers,</span>
   <span id="f000169">for a few days I drove about the upper part of the town and through the suburbs,</span>
   <span id="f000170">in my rockaway;</span>
   <span id="f000171">crossed over to Jersey City and Hoboken,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and paid fugitive visits to Manhattanville and Astoria.</span>
   <span id="f000173">In fact I almost lived in my rockaway for the time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">When again I entered my office,</span>
   <span id="f000175">lo,</span>
   <span id="f000176">a note from the landlord lay upon the desk.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I opened it with trembling hands.</span>
   <span id="f000178">It informed me that the writer had sent to the police,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and had Bartleby removed to the Tombs as a vagrant.</span>
   <span id="f000180">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000181">since I knew more about him than any one else,</span>
   <span id="f000182">he wished me to appear at that place,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and make a suitable statement of the facts.</span>
   <span id="f000184">These tidings had a conflicting effect upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000185">At first I was indignant;</span>
   <span id="f000186">but at last almost approved.</span>
   <span id="f000187">The landlord’s energetic,</span>
   <span id="f000188">summary disposition had led him to adopt a procedure which I do not think I would have decided upon myself;</span>
   <span id="f000189">and yet as a last resort,</span>
   <span id="f000190">under such peculiar circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000191">it seemed the only plan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">As I afterwards learned,</span>
   <span id="f000193">the poor scrivener,</span>
   <span id="f000194">when told that he must be conducted to the Tombs,</span>
   <span id="f000195">offered not the slightest obstacle,</span>
   <span id="f000196">but in his pale unmoving way,</span>
   <span id="f000197">silently acquiesced.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">Some of the compassionate and curious bystanders joined the party;</span>
   <span id="f000199">and headed by one of the constables arm in arm with Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000200">the silent procession filed its way through all the noise,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and heat,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and joy of the roaring thoroughfares at noon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">The same day I received the note I went to the Tombs,</span>
   <span id="f000204">or to speak more properly,</span>
   <span id="f000205">the Halls of Justice.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Seeking the right officer,</span>
   <span id="f000207">I stated the purpose of my call,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and was informed that the individual I described was indeed within.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I then assured the functionary that Bartleby was a perfectly honest man,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and greatly to be compassionated,</span>
   <span id="f000211">however unaccountably eccentric.</span>
   <span id="f000212">I narrated all I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and closed by suggesting the idea of letting him remain in as indulgent confinement as possible till something less harsh might be done – though indeed I hardly knew what.</span>
   <span id="f000214">At all events,</span>
   <span id="f000215">if nothing else could be decided upon,</span>
   <span id="f000216">the alms-house must receive him.</span>
   <span id="f000217">I then begged to have an interview.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">Being under no disgraceful charge,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and quite serene and harmless in all his ways,</span>
   <span id="f000220">they had permitted him freely to wander about the prison,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and especially in the inclosed grass-platted yard thereof.</span>
   <span id="f000222">And so I found him there,</span>
   <span id="f000223">standing all alone in the quietest of the yards,</span>
   <span id="f000224">his face towards a high wall,</span>
   <span id="f000225">while all around,</span>
   <span id="f000226">from the narrow slits of the jail windows,</span>
   <span id="f000227">I thought I saw peering out upon him the eyes of murderers and thieves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">“Bartleby!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“I know you,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000230">without looking round,</span>
   <span id="f000231">– “and I want nothing to say to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“It was not I that brought you here,</span>
   <span id="f000233">Bartleby,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000234">keenly pained at his implied suspicion.</span>
   <span id="f000235">“And to you,</span>
   <span id="f000236">this should not be so vile a place.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Nothing reproachful attaches to you by being here.</span>
   <span id="f000238">And see,</span>
   <span id="f000239">it is not so sad a place as one might think.</span>
   <span id="f000240">Look,</span>
   <span id="f000241">there is the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and here is the grass.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“I know where I am,” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000244">but would say nothing more,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and so I left him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">As I entered the corridor again,</span>
   <span id="f000247">a broad meat-like man,</span>
   <span id="f000248">in an apron,</span>
   <span id="f000249">accosted me,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and jerking his thumb over his shoulder said – “Is that your friend?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Does he want to starve?</span>
   <span id="f000253">If he does,</span>
   <span id="f000254">let him live on the prison fare,</span>
   <span id="f000255">that’s all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">“Who are you?” asked I,</span>
   <span id="f000257">not knowing what to make of such an unofficially speaking person in such a place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“I am the grub-man.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Such gentlemen as have friends here,</span>
   <span id="f000260">hire me to provide them with something good to eat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“Is this so?” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000262">turning to the turnkey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">He said it was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“Well then,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000265">slipping some silver into the grub-man’s hands</span>
   <span id="f000266">(for so they called him).</span>
   <span id="f000267">“I want you to give particular attention to my friend there;</span>
   <span id="f000268">let him have the best dinner you can get.</span>
   <span id="f000269">And you must be as polite to him as possible.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">“Introduce me,</span>
   <span id="f000271">will you?” said the grub-man,</span>
   <span id="f000272">looking at me with an expression which seem to say he was all impatience for an opportunity to give a specimen of his breeding.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">Thinking it would prove of benefit to the scrivener,</span>
   <span id="f000274">I acquiesced;</span>
   <span id="f000275">and asking the grub-man his name,</span>
   <span id="f000276">went up with him to Bartleby.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000278">this is Mr.&#160;Cutlets;</span>
   <span id="f000279">you will find him very useful to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“Your sarvant,</span>
   <span id="f000281">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000282">your sarvant,” said the grub-man,</span>
   <span id="f000283">making a low salutation behind his apron.</span>
   <span id="f000284">“Hope you find it pleasant here,</span>
   <span id="f000285">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000286">– spacious grounds – cool apartments,</span>
   <span id="f000287">sir – hope you’ll stay with us some time – try to make it agreeable.</span>
   <span id="f000288">May Mrs.&#160;Cutlets and I have the pleasure of your company to dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000289">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000290">in Mrs.&#160;Cutlets’ private room?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“I prefer not to dine to-day,” said Bartleby,</span>
   <span id="f000292">turning away.</span>
   <span id="f000293">“It would disagree with me;</span>
   <span id="f000294">I am unused to dinners.” So saying he slowly moved to the other side of the inclosure,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and took up a position fronting the dead-wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“How’s this?” said the grub-man,</span>
   <span id="f000297">addressing me with a stare of astonishment.</span>
   <span id="f000298">“He’s odd,</span>
   <span id="f000299">aint he?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“I think he is a little deranged,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000301">sadly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">“Deranged?</span>
   <span id="f000303">deranged is it?</span>
   <span id="f000304">Well now,</span>
   <span id="f000305">upon my word,</span>
   <span id="f000306">I thought that friend of yourn was a gentleman forger;</span>
   <span id="f000307">they are always pale and genteel-like,</span>
   <span id="f000308">them forgers.</span>
   <span id="f000309">I can’t pity’em – can’t help it,</span>
   <span id="f000310">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000311">Did you know Monroe Edwards?” he added touchingly,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and paused.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000314">laying his hand pityingly on my shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000315">sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000316">“he died of consumption at Sing-Sing.</span>
   <span id="f000317">So you weren’t acquainted with Monroe?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000319">I was never socially acquainted with any forgers.</span>
   <span id="f000320">But I cannot stop longer.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Look to my friend yonder.</span>
   <span id="f000322">You will not lose by it.</span>
   <span id="f000323">I will see you again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">Some few days after this,</span>
   <span id="f000325">I again obtained admission to the Tombs,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and went through the corridors in quest of Bartleby;</span>
   <span id="f000327">but without finding him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“I saw him coming from his cell not long ago,” said a turnkey,</span>
   <span id="f000329">“may be he’s gone to loiter in the yards.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">So I went in that direction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“Are you looking for the silent man?” said another turnkey passing me.</span>
   <span id="f000332">“Yonder he lies – sleeping in the yard there.</span>
   <span id="f000333">’Tis not twenty minutes since I saw him lie down.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">The yard was entirely quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000335">It was not accessible to the common prisoners.</span>
   <span id="f000336">The surrounding walls,</span>
   <span id="f000337">of amazing thickness,</span>
   <span id="f000338">kept off all sounds behind them.</span>
   <span id="f000339">The Egyptian character of the masonry weighed upon me with its gloom.</span>
   <span id="f000340">But a soft imprisoned turf grew under foot.</span>
   <span id="f000341">The heart of the eternal pyramids,</span>
   <span id="f000342">it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000343">wherein,</span>
   <span id="f000344">by some strange magic,</span>
   <span id="f000345">through the clefts,</span>
   <span id="f000346">grass-seed,</span>
   <span id="f000347">dropped by birds,</span>
   <span id="f000348">had sprung.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">Strangely huddled at the base of the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000350">his knees drawn up,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and lying on his side,</span>
   <span id="f000352">his head touching the cold stones,</span>
   <span id="f000353">I saw the wasted Bartleby.</span>
   <span id="f000354">But nothing stirred.</span>
   <span id="f000355">I paused;</span>
   <span id="f000356">then went close up to him;</span>
   <span id="f000357">stooped over,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and saw that his dim eyes were open;</span>
   <span id="f000359">otherwise he seemed profoundly sleeping.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Something prompted me to touch him.</span>
   <span id="f000361">I felt his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000362">when a tingling shiver ran up my arm and down my spine to my feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">The round face of the grub-man peered upon me now.</span>
   <span id="f000364">“His dinner is ready.</span>
   <span id="f000365">Won’t he dine to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000366">either?</span>
   <span id="f000367">Or does he live without dining?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“Lives without dining,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and closed his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">“Eh!</span>
   <span id="f000371">– He’s asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000372">aint he?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“With kings and counselors,” murmured I.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000374">There would seem little need for proceeding further in this history.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Imagination will readily supply the meager recital of poor Bartleby’s interment.</span>
   <span id="f000376">But ere parting with the reader,</span>
   <span id="f000377">let me say,</span>
   <span id="f000378">that if this little narrative has sufficiently interested him,</span>
   <span id="f000379">to awaken curiosity as to who Bartleby was,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and what manner of life he led prior to the present narrator’s making his acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f000381">I can only reply,</span>
   <span id="f000382">that in such curiosity I fully share,</span>
   <span id="f000383">but am wholly unable to gratify it.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Yet here I hardly know whether I should divulge one little item of rumor,</span>
   <span id="f000385">which came to my ear a few months after the scrivener’s decease.</span>
   <span id="f000386">Upon what basis it rested,</span>
   <span id="f000387">I could never ascertain;</span>
   <span id="f000388">and hence,</span>
   <span id="f000389">how true it is I cannot now tell.</span>
   <span id="f000390">But inasmuch as this vague report has not been without certain strange suggestive interest to me,</span>
   <span id="f000391">however sad,</span>
   <span id="f000392">it may prove the same with some others;</span>
   <span id="f000393">and so I will briefly mention it.</span>
   <span id="f000394">The report was this:</span>
   <span id="f000395">that Bartleby had been a subordinate clerk in the Dead Letter Office at Washington,</span>
   <span id="f000396">from which he had been suddenly removed by a change in the administration.</span>
   <span id="f000397">When I think over this rumor,</span>
   <span id="f000398">I cannot adequately express the emotions which seize me.</span>
   <span id="f000399">Dead letters!</span>
   <span id="f000400">does it not sound like dead men?</span>
   <span id="f000401">Conceive a man by nature and misfortune prone to a pallid hopelessness,</span>
   <span id="f000402">can any business seem more fitted to heighten it than that of continually handling these dead letters,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and assorting them for the flames?</span>
   <span id="f000404">For by the cart-load they are annually burned.</span>
   <span id="f000405">Sometimes from out the folded paper the pale clerk takes a ring:</span>
   <span id="f000406">– the finger it was meant for,</span>
   <span id="f000407">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000408">moulders in the grave;</span>
   <span id="f000409">a bank-note sent in swiftest charity:</span>
   <span id="f000410">– he whom it would relieve,</span>
   <span id="f000411">nor eats nor hungers any more;</span>
   <span id="f000412">pardon for those who died despairing;</span>
   <span id="f000413">hope for those who died unhoping;</span>
   <span id="f000414">good tidings for those who died stifled by unrelieved calamities.</span>
   <span id="f000415">On errands of life,</span>
   <span id="f000416">these letters speed to death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">Ah Bartleby!</span>
   <span id="f000418">Ah humanity!</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

