<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mike Harris</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Blue Room</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Kenneth Grahame</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">That nature has her moments of sympathy with man has been noted often enough,</span>
   <span id="f000008">– and generally as a new discovery;</span>
   <span id="f000009">to us,</span>
   <span id="f000010">who had never known any other condition of things,</span>
   <span id="f000011">it seemed entirely right and fitting that the wind sang and sobbed in the poplar tops,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and in the lulls of it,</span>
   <span id="f000013">sudden spirts of rain spattered the already dusty roads,</span>
   <span id="f000014">on that blusterous March day when Edward and I awaited,</span>
   <span id="f000015">on the station platform,</span>
   <span id="f000016">the arrival of the new tutor.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Needless to say,</span>
   <span id="f000018">this arrangement had been planned by an aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000019">from some fond idea that our shy,</span>
   <span id="f000020">innocent young natures would unfold themselves during the walk from the station,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and that on the revelation of each other’s more solid qualities that must then inevitably ensue,</span>
   <span id="f000022">an enduring friendship springing from mutual respect might be firmly based.</span>
   <span id="f000023">A pretty dream,</span>
   <span id="f000024">– nothing more.</span>
   <span id="f000025">For Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000026">who foresaw that the brunt of tutorial oppression would have to be borne by him,</span>
   <span id="f000027">was sulky,</span>
   <span id="f000028">monosyllabic,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and determined to be as negatively disagreeable as good manners would permit.</span>
   <span id="f000030">It was therefore evident that I would have to be spokesman and purveyor of hollow civilities,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and I was none the more amiable on that account;</span>
   <span id="f000032">all courtesies,</span>
   <span id="f000033">welcomes,</span>
   <span id="f000034">explanations,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and other court-chamberlain kind of business,</span>
   <span id="f000036">being my special aversion.</span>
   <span id="f000037">There was much of the tempestuous March weather in the hearts of both of us,</span>
   <span id="f000038">as we sullenly glowered along the carriage-windows of the slackening train.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">One is apt,</span>
   <span id="f000040">however,</span>
   <span id="f000041">to misjudge the special difficulties of a situation;</span>
   <span id="f000042">and the reception proved,</span>
   <span id="f000043">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000044">an easy and informal matter.</span>
   <span id="f000045">In a trainful so uniformly bucolic,</span>
   <span id="f000046">a tutor was readily recognisable;</span>
   <span id="f000047">and his portmanteau had been consigned to the luggage-cart,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and his person conveyed into the lane,</span>
   <span id="f000049">before I had discharged one of my carefully considered sentences.</span>
   <span id="f000050">I breathed more easily,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and,</span>
   <span id="f000052">looking up at our new friend as we stepped out together,</span>
   <span id="f000053">remembered that we had been counting on something altogether more arid,</span>
   <span id="f000054">scholastic,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and severe.</span>
   <span id="f000056">A boyish eager face and a petulant pince-nez,</span>
   <span id="f000057">– untidy hair,</span>
   <span id="f000058">– a head of constant quick turns like a robin’s,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and a voice that kept breaking into alto,</span>
   <span id="f000060">– these were all very strange and new,</span>
   <span id="f000061">but not in the least terrible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">He proceeded jerkily through the village,</span>
   <span id="f000063">with glances on this side and that;</span>
   <span id="f000064">and “Charming,” he broke out presently;</span>
   <span id="f000065">“quite too charming and delightful!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">I had not counted on this sort of thing,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and glanced for help to Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000068">who,</span>
   <span id="f000069">hands in pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000070">looked grimly down his nose.</span>
   <span id="f000071">He had taken his line,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and meant to stick to it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">Meantime our friend had made an imaginary spy-glass out of his fist,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and was squinting through it at something I could not perceive.</span>
   <span id="f000075">“What an exquisite bit!” he burst out;</span>
   <span id="f000076">“fifteenth century,</span>
   <span id="f000077">– no,</span>
   <span id="f000078">– yes,</span>
   <span id="f000079">it is!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">I began to feel puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000081">not to say alarmed.</span>
   <span id="f000082">It reminded me of the butcher in the Arabian Nights,</span>
   <span id="f000083">whose common joints,</span>
   <span id="f000084">displayed on the shop-front,</span>
   <span id="f000085">took to a startled public the appearance of dismembered humanity.</span>
   <span id="f000086">This man seemed to see the strangest things in our dull,</span>
   <span id="f000087">familiar surroundings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“Ah!” he broke out again,</span>
   <span id="f000089">as we jogged on between hedgerows:</span>
   <span id="f000090">“and that field now – backed by the downs – with the rain-cloud brooding over it,</span>
   <span id="f000091">– that’s all David Cox – every bit of it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“That field belongs to Farmer Larkin,” I explained politely,</span>
   <span id="f000093">for of course he could not be expected to know.</span>
   <span id="f000094">“I’ll take you over to Farmer Cox’s to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000095">if he’s a friend of yours;</span>
   <span id="f000096">but there’s nothing to see there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000098">who was hanging sullenly behind,</span>
   <span id="f000099">made a face at me,</span>
   <span id="f000100">as if to say,</span>
   <span id="f000101">“What sort of lunatic have we got here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“It has the true pastoral character,</span>
   <span id="f000103">this country of yours,” went on our enthusiast:</span>
   <span id="f000104">“with just that added touch in cottage and farmstead,</span>
   <span id="f000105">relics of a bygone art,</span>
   <span id="f000106">which makes our English landscape so divine,</span>
   <span id="f000107">so unique!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">Really this grasshopper was becoming a burden.</span>
   <span id="f000109">These familiar fields and farms,</span>
   <span id="f000110">of which we knew every blade and stick,</span>
   <span id="f000111">had done nothing that I knew of to be bespattered with adjectives in this way.</span>
   <span id="f000112">I had never thought of them as divine,</span>
   <span id="f000113">unique,</span>
   <span id="f000114">or anything else.</span>
   <span id="f000115">They were – well,</span>
   <span id="f000116">they were just themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and there was an end of it.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Despairingly I jogged Edward in the ribs,</span>
   <span id="f000119">as a sign to start rational conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000120">but he only grinned and continued obdurate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“You can see the house now,” I remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000122">presently;</span>
   <span id="f000123">“and that’s Selina,</span>
   <span id="f000124">chasing the donkey in the paddock,</span>
   <span id="f000125">– or is it the donkey chasing Selina?</span>
   <span id="f000126">I can’t quite make out;</span>
   <span id="f000127">but it’s THEM,</span>
   <span id="f000128">anyhow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">Needless to say,</span>
   <span id="f000130">he exploded with a full charge of adjectives.</span>
   <span id="f000131">“Exquisite!” he rapped out;</span>
   <span id="f000132">“so mellow and harmonious!</span>
   <span id="f000133">and so entirely in keeping!”</span>
   <span id="f000134">(I could see from Edward’s face that he was thinking who ought to be in keeping.)</span>
   <span id="f000135">“Such possibilities of romance,</span>
   <span id="f000136">now,</span>
   <span id="f000137">in those old gables!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“If you mean the garrets,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000139">“there’s a lot of old furniture in them;</span>
   <span id="f000140">and one is generally full of apples;</span>
   <span id="f000141">and the bats get in sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000142">under the eaves,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and flop about till we go up with hair-brushes and things and drive ’em out;</span>
   <span id="f000144">but there’s nothing else in them that I know of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000146">but there must be more than bats,” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000147">“Don’t tell me there are no ghosts.</span>
   <span id="f000148">I shall be deeply disappointed if there aren’t any ghosts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">I did not think it worth while to reply,</span>
   <span id="f000150">feeling really unequal to this sort of conversation;</span>
   <span id="f000151">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000152">we were nearing the house,</span>
   <span id="f000153">when my task would be ended.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Aunt Eliza met us at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and in the cross-fire of adjectives that ensued – both of them talking at once,</span>
   <span id="f000156">as grown-up folk have a habit of doing – we two slipped round to the back of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and speedily put several solid acres between us and civilisation,</span>
   <span id="f000158">for fear of being ordered in to tea in the drawing-room.</span>
   <span id="f000159">By the time we returned,</span>
   <span id="f000160">our new importation had gone up to dress for dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000161">so till the morrow at least we were free of him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">Meanwhile the March wind,</span>
   <span id="f000163">after dropping a while at sundown,</span>
   <span id="f000164">had been steadily increasing in volume;</span>
   <span id="f000165">and although I fell asleep at my usual hour,</span>
   <span id="f000166">about midnight I was wakened by the stress and cry of it.</span>
   <span id="f000167">In the bright moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000168">wind-swung branches tossed and swayed eerily across the blinds;</span>
   <span id="f000169">there was rumbling in chimneys,</span>
   <span id="f000170">whistling in keyholes,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and everywhere a clamour and a call.</span>
   <span id="f000172">Sleep was out of the question,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and,</span>
   <span id="f000174">sitting up in bed,</span>
   <span id="f000175">I looked round.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Edward sat up too.</span>
   <span id="f000177">“I was wondering when you were going to wake,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000178">“It’s no good trying to sleep through this.</span>
   <span id="f000179">I vote we get up and do something.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“I’m game,” I replied.</span>
   <span id="f000181">“Let’s play at being in a ship at sea”</span>
   <span id="f000182">(the plaint of the old house under the buffeting wind suggested this,</span>
   <span id="f000183">naturally);</span>
   <span id="f000184">“and we can be wrecked on an island,</span>
   <span id="f000185">or left on a raft,</span>
   <span id="f000186">whichever you choose;</span>
   <span id="f000187">but I like an island best myself,</span>
   <span id="f000188">because there’s more things on it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">Edward on reflection negatived the idea.</span>
   <span id="f000190">“It would make too much noise,” he pointed out.</span>
   <span id="f000191">“There’s no fun playing at ships,</span>
   <span id="f000192">unless you can make a jolly good row.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">The door creaked,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and a small figure in white slipped cautiously in.</span>
   <span id="f000195">“Thought I heard you talking,” said Charlotte.</span>
   <span id="f000196">“We don’t like it;</span>
   <span id="f000197">we’re afraid – Selina too.</span>
   <span id="f000198">She’ll be here in a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000199">She’s putting on her new dressing-gown she’s so proud of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">His arms round his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000201">Edward cogitated deeply until Selina appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000202">barefooted,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and looking slim and tall in the new dressing-gown.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000205">“Look here,” he exclaimed;</span>
   <span id="f000206">“now we’re all together,</span>
   <span id="f000207">I vote we go and explore!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“You’re always wanting to explore,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000209">“What on earth is there to explore for in this house?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“Biscuits!” said the inspired Edward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“Hooray!</span>
   <span id="f000212">Come on!” chimed in Harold,</span>
   <span id="f000213">sitting up suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f000214">He had been awake all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000215">but had been shamming asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000216">lest he should be fagged to do anything.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">It was indeed a fact,</span>
   <span id="f000218">as Edward had remembered,</span>
   <span id="f000219">that our thoughtless elders occasionally left the biscuits out,</span>
   <span id="f000220">a prize for the night-walking adventurer with nerves of steel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">Edward tumbled out of bed,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and pulled a baggy old pair of knickerbockers over his bare shanks.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Then he girt himself with a belt,</span>
   <span id="f000224">into which he thrust,</span>
   <span id="f000225">on the one side a large wooden pistol,</span>
   <span id="f000226">on the other an old single-stick;</span>
   <span id="f000227">and finally he donned a big slouch-hat – once an uncle’s – that we used for playing Guy Fawkes and Charles-the-Second up-a-tree in.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Whatever the audience,</span>
   <span id="f000229">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000230">if possible,</span>
   <span id="f000231">always dressed for his parts with care and conscientiousness;</span>
   <span id="f000232">while Harold and I,</span>
   <span id="f000233">true Elizabethans,</span>
   <span id="f000234">cared little about the mounting of the piece,</span>
   <span id="f000235">so long as the real dramatic heart of it beat sound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">Our commander now enjoined on us a silence deep as the grave,</span>
   <span id="f000237">reminding us that Aunt Eliza usually slept with an open door,</span>
   <span id="f000238">past which we had to file.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“But we’ll take the short cut through the Blue Room,” said the wary Selina.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">“Of course,” said Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000241">approvingly.</span>
   <span id="f000242">“I forgot about that.</span>
   <span id="f000243">Now then!</span>
   <span id="f000244">You lead the way!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">The Blue Room had in prehistoric times been added to by taking in a superfluous passage,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and so not only had the advantage of two doors,</span>
   <span id="f000247">but enabled us to get to the head of the stairs without passing the chamber wherein our dragon-aunt lay couched.</span>
   <span id="f000248">It was rarely occupied,</span>
   <span id="f000249">except when a casual uncle came down for the night.</span>
   <span id="f000250">We entered in noiseless file,</span>
   <span id="f000251">the room being plunged in darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000252">except for a bright strip of moonlight on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000253">across which we must pass for our exit.</span>
   <span id="f000254">On this our leading lady chose to pause,</span>
   <span id="f000255">seizing the opportunity to study the hang of her new dressing-gown.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Greatly satisfied thereat,</span>
   <span id="f000257">she proceeded,</span>
   <span id="f000258">after the feminine fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000259">to peacock and to pose,</span>
   <span id="f000260">pacing a minuet down the moonlit patch with an imaginary partner.</span>
   <span id="f000261">This was too much for Edward’s histrionic instincts,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and after a moment’s pause he drew his single-stick,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and with flourishes meet for the occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000264">strode onto the stage.</span>
   <span id="f000265">A struggle ensued on approved lines,</span>
   <span id="f000266">at the end of which Selina was stabbed slowly and with unction,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and her corpse borne from the chamber by the ruthless cavalier.</span>
   <span id="f000268">The rest of us rushed after in a clump,</span>
   <span id="f000269">with capers and gesticulations of delight;</span>
   <span id="f000270">the special charm of the performance lying in the necessity for its being carried out with the dumbest of dumb shows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">Once out on the dark landing,</span>
   <span id="f000272">the noise of the storm without told us that we had exaggerated the necessity for silence;</span>
   <span id="f000273">so,</span>
   <span id="f000274">grasping the tails of each other’s nightgowns even as Alpine climbers rope themselves together in perilous places,</span>
   <span id="f000275">we fared stoutly down the staircase-moraine,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and across the grim glacier of the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000277">to where a faint glimmer from the half-open door of the drawing-room beckoned to us like friendly hostel-lights.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Entering,</span>
   <span id="f000279">we found that our thriftless seniors had left the sound red heart of a fire,</span>
   <span id="f000280">easily coaxed into a cheerful blaze;</span>
   <span id="f000281">and biscuits – a plateful – smiled at us in an encouraging sort of way,</span>
   <span id="f000282">together with the halves of a lemon,</span>
   <span id="f000283">already once squeezed but still suckable.</span>
   <span id="f000284">The biscuits were righteously shared,</span>
   <span id="f000285">the lemon segments passed from mouth to mouth;</span>
   <span id="f000286">and as we squatted round the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000287">its genial warmth consoling our unclad limbs,</span>
   <span id="f000288">we realised that so many nocturnal perils had not been braved in vain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“It’s a funny thing,” said Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000290">as we chatted,</span>
   <span id="f000291">“how;</span>
   <span id="f000292">I hate this room in the daytime.</span>
   <span id="f000293">It always means having your face washed,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and your hair brushed,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and talking silly company talk.</span>
   <span id="f000296">But to-night it’s really quite jolly.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Looks different,</span>
   <span id="f000298">somehow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“I never can make out,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000300">“what people come here to tea for.</span>
   <span id="f000301">They can have their own tea at home if they like,</span>
   <span id="f000302">– they’re not poor people,</span>
   <span id="f000303">– with jam and things,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and drink out of their saucer,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and suck their fingers and enjoy themselves;</span>
   <span id="f000306">but they come here from a long way off,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and sit up straight with their feet off the bars of their chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and have one cup,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and talk the same sort of stuff every time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">Selina sniffed disdainfully.</span>
   <span id="f000311">“You don’t know anything about it,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000312">“In society you have to call on each other.</span>
   <span id="f000313">It’s the proper thing to do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Pooh!</span>
   <span id="f000315">YOU’RE not in society,” said Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000316">politely;</span>
   <span id="f000317">“and,</span>
   <span id="f000318">what’s more,</span>
   <span id="f000319">you never will be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000321">I shall,</span>
   <span id="f000322">some day,” retorted Selina;</span>
   <span id="f000323">“but I shan’t ask you to come and see me,</span>
   <span id="f000324">so there!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">“Wouldn’t come if you did,” growled Edward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000327">you won’t get the chance,” rejoined our sister,</span>
   <span id="f000328">claiming her right of the last word.</span>
   <span id="f000329">There was no heat about these little amenities,</span>
   <span id="f000330">which made up – as we understood it – the art of polite conversation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“I don ’t like society people,” put in Harold from the sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000332">where he was sprawling at full length,</span>
   <span id="f000333">– a sight the daylight hours would have blushed to witness.</span>
   <span id="f000334">“There were some of ’em here this afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000335">when you two had gone off to the station.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and I found a dead mouse on the lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and I wanted to skin it,</span>
   <span id="f000339">but I wasn’t sure I knew how,</span>
   <span id="f000340">by myself;</span>
   <span id="f000341">and they came out into the garden and patted my head,</span>
   <span id="f000342">– I wish people wouldn’t do that,</span>
   <span id="f000343">– and one of ’em asked me to pick her a flower.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Don’t know why she couldn’t pick it herself;</span>
   <span id="f000345">but I said,</span>
   <span id="f000346">’All right,</span>
   <span id="f000347">I will if you’ll hold my mouse.’ But she screamed,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and threw it away;</span>
   <span id="f000349">and Augustus</span>
   <span id="f000350">(the cat)</span>
   <span id="f000351">got it,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and ran away with it.</span>
   <span id="f000353">I believe it was really his mouse all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000354">’cos he’d been looking about as if he had lost something,</span>
   <span id="f000355">so I wasn’t angry with HIM;</span>
   <span id="f000356">but what did SHE want to throw away my mouse for?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“You have to be careful with mice,” reflected Edward;</span>
   <span id="f000358">“they’re such slippery things.</span>
   <span id="f000359">Do you remember we were playing with a dead mouse once on the piano,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and the mouse was Robinson Crusoe,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and the piano was the island,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and somehow Crusoe slipped down inside the island,</span>
   <span id="f000363">into its works,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and we couldn’t get him out,</span>
   <span id="f000365">though we tried rakes and all sorts of things,</span>
   <span id="f000366">till the tuner came.</span>
   <span id="f000367">And that wasn’t till a week after,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and then – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">Here Charlotte,</span>
   <span id="f000370">who had been nodding solemnly,</span>
   <span id="f000371">fell over into the fender;</span>
   <span id="f000372">and we realised that the wind had dropped at last,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and the house was lapped in a great stillness.</span>
   <span id="f000374">Our vacant beds seemed to be calling to us imperiously;</span>
   <span id="f000375">and we were all glad when Edward gave the signal for retreat.</span>
   <span id="f000376">At the top of the staircase Harold unexpectedly turned mutinous,</span>
   <span id="f000377">insisting on his right to slide down the banisters in a free country.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Circumstances did not allow of argument;</span>
   <span id="f000379">I suggested frog’s-marching instead,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and frog’s-marched he accordingly was,</span>
   <span id="f000381">the procession passing solemnly across the moonlit Blue Room,</span>
   <span id="f000382">with Harold horizontal and limply submissive.</span>
   <span id="f000383">Snug in bed at last,</span>
   <span id="f000384">I was just slipping off into slumber when I heard Edward explode,</span>
   <span id="f000385">with chuckle and snort.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">“By Jove!” he said;</span>
   <span id="f000387">“I forgot all about it.</span>
   <span id="f000388">The new tutor’s sleeping in the Blue Room!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">“Lucky he didn’t wake up and catch us,” I grunted,</span>
   <span id="f000390">drowsily;</span>
   <span id="f000391">and both of us,</span>
   <span id="f000392">without another thought on the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000393">sank into well-earned repose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">Next morning we came down to breakfast braced to grapple with fresh adversity,</span>
   <span id="f000395">but were surprised to find our garrulous friend of the previous day – he was late in making his appearance – strangely silent and</span>
   <span id="f000396">(apparently)</span>
   <span id="f000397">preoccupied.</span>
   <span id="f000398">Having polished off our porridge,</span>
   <span id="f000399">we ran out to feed the rabbits,</span>
   <span id="f000400">explaining to them that a beast of a tutor would prevent their enjoying so much of our society as formerly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">On returning to the house at the fated hour appointed for study,</span>
   <span id="f000402">we were thunderstruck to see the station-cart disappearing down the drive,</span>
   <span id="f000403">freighted with our new acquaintance.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Aunt Eliza was brutally uncommunicative;</span>
   <span id="f000405">but she was overheard to remark casually that she thought the man must be a lunatic.</span>
   <span id="f000406">In this theory we were only too ready to concur,</span>
   <span id="f000407">dismissing thereafter the whole matter from our minds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">Some weeks later it happened that Uncle Thomas,</span>
   <span id="f000409">while paying us a flying visit,</span>
   <span id="f000410">produced from his pocket a copy of the latest weekly,</span>
   <span id="f000411">Psyche:</span>
   <span id="f000412">a Journal of the Unseen;</span>
   <span id="f000413">and proceeded laborously to rid himself of much incomprehensible humour,</span>
   <span id="f000414">apparently at our expense.</span>
   <span id="f000415">We bore it patiently,</span>
   <span id="f000416">with the forced grin demanded by convention,</span>
   <span id="f000417">anxious to get at the source of inspiration,</span>
   <span id="f000418">which it presently appeared lay in a paragraph circumstantially describing our modest and humdrum habitation.</span>
   <span id="f000419">“Case III.,” it began.</span>
   <span id="f000420">“The following particulars were communicated by a young member of the Society,</span>
   <span id="f000421">of undoubted probity and earnestness,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and are a chronicle of actual and recent experience.” A fairly accurate description of the house followed,</span>
   <span id="f000423">with details that were unmistakable;</span>
   <span id="f000424">but to this there succeeded a flood of meaningless drivel about apparitions,</span>
   <span id="f000425">nightly visitants,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and the like,</span>
   <span id="f000427">writ in a manner betokening a disordered mind,</span>
   <span id="f000428">coupled with a feeble imagination.</span>
   <span id="f000429">The fellow was not even original.</span>
   <span id="f000430">All the old material was there,</span>
   <span id="f000431">– the storm at night,</span>
   <span id="f000432">the haunted chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000433">the white lady,</span>
   <span id="f000434">the murder re-enacted,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000436">– already worn threadbare in many a Christmas Number.</span>
   <span id="f000437">No one was able to make head or tail of the stuff,</span>
   <span id="f000438">or of its connexion with our quiet mansion;</span>
   <span id="f000439">and yet Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000440">who had always suspected the man,</span>
   <span id="f000441">persisted in maintaining that our tutor of a brief span was,</span>
   <span id="f000442">somehow or other,</span>
   <span id="f000443">at the bottom of it.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

