<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Julie VW</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Haunted House</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Charles Dickens</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000007">The Mortals in the House</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000008">Under none of the accredited ghostly circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and environed by none of the conventional ghostly surroundings,</span>
   <span id="f000010">did I first make acquaintance with the house which is the subject of this Christmas piece.</span>
   <span id="f000011">I saw it in the daylight,</span>
   <span id="f000012">with the sun upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000013">There was no wind,</span>
   <span id="f000014">no rain,</span>
   <span id="f000015">no lightning,</span>
   <span id="f000016">no thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000017">no awful or unwonted circumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000018">of any kind,</span>
   <span id="f000019">to heighten its effect.</span>
   <span id="f000020">More than that:</span>
   <span id="f000021">I had come to it direct from a railway station:</span>
   <span id="f000022">it was not more than a mile distant from the railway station;</span>
   <span id="f000023">and,</span>
   <span id="f000024">as I stood outside the house,</span>
   <span id="f000025">looking back upon the way I had come,</span>
   <span id="f000026">I could see the goods train running smoothly along the embankment in the valley.</span>
   <span id="f000027">I will not say that everything was utterly commonplace,</span>
   <span id="f000028">because I doubt if anything can be that,</span>
   <span id="f000029">except to utterly commonplace people—and there my vanity steps in;</span>
   <span id="f000030">but,</span>
   <span id="f000031">I will take it on myself to say that anybody might see the house as I saw it,</span>
   <span id="f000032">any fine autumn morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">The manner of my lighting on it was this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">I was travelling towards London out of the North,</span>
   <span id="f000035">intending to stop by the way,</span>
   <span id="f000036">to look at the house.</span>
   <span id="f000037">My health required a temporary residence in the country;</span>
   <span id="f000038">and a friend of mine who knew that,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and who had happened to drive past the house,</span>
   <span id="f000040">had written to me to suggest it as a likely place.</span>
   <span id="f000041">I had got into the train at midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and had fallen asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and had woke up and had sat looking out of window at the brilliant Northern Lights in the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and had fallen asleep again,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and had woke up again to find the night gone,</span>
   <span id="f000046">with the usual discontented conviction on me that I hadn’t been to sleep at all;—upon which question,</span>
   <span id="f000047">in the first imbecility of that condition,</span>
   <span id="f000048">I am ashamed to believe that I would have done wager by battle with the man who sat opposite me.</span>
   <span id="f000049">That opposite man had had,</span>
   <span id="f000050">through the night—as that opposite man always has—several legs too many,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and all of them too long.</span>
   <span id="f000052">In addition to this unreasonable conduct</span>
   <span id="f000053">(which was only to be expected of him),</span>
   <span id="f000054">he had had a pencil and a pocket-book,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and had been perpetually listening and taking notes.</span>
   <span id="f000056">It had appeared to me that these aggravating notes related to the jolts and bumps of the carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and I should have resigned myself to his taking them,</span>
   <span id="f000058">under a general supposition that he was in the civil-engineering way of life,</span>
   <span id="f000059">if he had not sat staring straight over my head whenever he listened.</span>
   <span id="f000060">He was a goggle-eyed gentleman of a perplexed aspect,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and his demeanour became unbearable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">It was a cold,</span>
   <span id="f000063">dead morning</span>
   <span id="f000064">(the sun not being up yet),</span>
   <span id="f000065">and when I had out-watched the paling light of the fires of the iron country,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and the curtain of heavy smoke that hung at once between me and the stars and between me and the day,</span>
   <span id="f000067">I turned to my fellow-traveller and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">“I <em>beg</em> your pardon,</span>
   <span id="f000069">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000070">but do you observe anything particular in me?” For,</span>
   <span id="f000071">really,</span>
   <span id="f000072">he appeared to be taking down,</span>
   <span id="f000073">either my travelling-cap or my hair,</span>
   <span id="f000074">with a minuteness that was a liberty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">The goggle-eyed gentleman withdrew his eyes from behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000076">as if the back of the carriage were a hundred miles off,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000078">with a lofty look of compassion for my insignificance:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“In you,</span>
   <span id="f000080">sir?—B.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“B,</span>
   <span id="f000082">sir?” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000083">growing warm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">“I have nothing to do with you,</span>
   <span id="f000085">sir,” returned the gentleman;</span>
   <span id="f000086">“pray let me listen—O.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">He enunciated this vowel after a pause,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and noted it down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">At first I was alarmed,</span>
   <span id="f000090">for an Express lunatic and no communication with the guard,</span>
   <span id="f000091">is a serious position.</span>
   <span id="f000092">The thought came to my relief that the gentleman might be what is popularly called a Rapper:</span>
   <span id="f000093">one of a sect for</span>
   <span id="f000094">(some of)</span>
   <span id="f000095">whom I have the highest respect,</span>
   <span id="f000096">but whom I don’t believe in.</span>
   <span id="f000097">I was going to ask him the question,</span>
   <span id="f000098">when he took the bread out of my mouth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“You will excuse me,” said the gentleman contemptuously,</span>
   <span id="f000100">“if I am too much in advance of common humanity to trouble myself at all about it.</span>
   <span id="f000101">I have passed the night—as indeed I pass the whole of my time now—in spiritual intercourse.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“O!” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000103">somewhat snappishly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“The conferences of the night began,” continued the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000105">turning several leaves of his note-book,</span>
   <span id="f000106">“with this message:</span>
   <span id="f000107">‘Evil communications corrupt good manners.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“Sound,” said I;</span>
   <span id="f000109">“but,</span>
   <span id="f000110">absolutely new?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“New from spirits,” returned the gentleman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">I could only repeat my rather snappish “O!” and ask if I might be favoured with the last communication.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“‘A bird in the hand,’” said the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000114">reading his last entry with great solemnity,</span>
   <span id="f000115">“‘is worth two in the Bosh.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“Truly I am of the same opinion,” said I;</span>
   <span id="f000117">“but shouldn’t it be Bush?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">“It came to me,</span>
   <span id="f000119">Bosh,” returned the gentleman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">The gentleman then informed me that the spirit of Socrates had delivered this special revelation in the course of the night.</span>
   <span id="f000121">“My friend,</span>
   <span id="f000122">I hope you are pretty well.</span>
   <span id="f000123">There are two in this railway carriage.</span>
   <span id="f000124">How do you do?</span>
   <span id="f000125">There are seventeen thousand four hundred and seventy-nine spirits here,</span>
   <span id="f000126">but you cannot see them.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Pythagoras is here.</span>
   <span id="f000128">He is not at liberty to mention it,</span>
   <span id="f000129">but hopes you like travelling.” Galileo likewise had dropped in,</span>
   <span id="f000130">with this scientific intelligence.</span>
   <span id="f000131">“I am glad to see you,</span>
   <span id="f000132"><em>amico</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000133"><em>Come sta</em>?</span>
   <span id="f000134">Water will freeze when it is cold enough.</span>
   <span id="f000135"><em>Addio</em>!” In the course of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000136">also,</span>
   <span id="f000137">the following phenomena had occurred.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Bishop Butler had insisted on spelling his name,</span>
   <span id="f000139">“Bubler,” for which offence against orthography and good manners he had been dismissed as out of temper.</span>
   <span id="f000140">John Milton</span>
   <span id="f000141">(suspected of wilful mystification)</span>
   <span id="f000142">had repudiated the authorship of Paradise Lost,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and had introduced,</span>
   <span id="f000144">as joint authors of that poem,</span>
   <span id="f000145">two Unknown gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000146">respectively named Grungers and Scadgingtone.</span>
   <span id="f000147">And Prince Arthur,</span>
   <span id="f000148">nephew of King John of England,</span>
   <span id="f000149">had described himself as tolerably comfortable in the seventh circle,</span>
   <span id="f000150">where he was learning to paint on velvet,</span>
   <span id="f000151">under the direction of Mrs.&#160;Trimmer and Mary Queen of Scots.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">If this should meet the eye of the gentleman who favoured me with these disclosures,</span>
   <span id="f000153">I trust he will excuse my confessing that the sight of the rising sun,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and the contemplation of the magnificent Order of the vast Universe,</span>
   <span id="f000155">made me impatient of them.</span>
   <span id="f000156">In a word,</span>
   <span id="f000157">I was so impatient of them,</span>
   <span id="f000158">that I was mightily glad to get out at the next station,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and to exchange these clouds and vapours for the free air of Heaven.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">By that time it was a beautiful morning.</span>
   <span id="f000161">As I walked away among such leaves as had already fallen from the golden,</span>
   <span id="f000162">brown,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and russet trees;</span>
   <span id="f000164">and as I looked around me on the wonders of Creation,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and thought of the steady,</span>
   <span id="f000166">unchanging,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and harmonious laws by which they are sustained;</span>
   <span id="f000168">the gentleman’s spiritual intercourse seemed to me as poor a piece of journey-work as ever this world saw.</span>
   <span id="f000169">In which heathen state of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000170">I came within view of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and stopped to examine it attentively.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">It was a solitary house,</span>
   <span id="f000173">standing in a sadly neglected garden:</span>
   <span id="f000174">a pretty even square of some two acres.</span>
   <span id="f000175">It was a house of about the time of George the Second;</span>
   <span id="f000176">as stiff,</span>
   <span id="f000177">as cold,</span>
   <span id="f000178">as formal,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and in as bad taste,</span>
   <span id="f000180">as could possibly be desired by the most loyal admirer of the whole quartet of Georges.</span>
   <span id="f000181">It was uninhabited,</span>
   <span id="f000182">but had,</span>
   <span id="f000183">within a year or two,</span>
   <span id="f000184">been cheaply repaired to render it habitable;</span>
   <span id="f000185">I say cheaply,</span>
   <span id="f000186">because the work had been done in a surface manner,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and was already decaying as to the paint and plaster,</span>
   <span id="f000188">though the colours were fresh.</span>
   <span id="f000189">A lop-sided board drooped over the garden wall,</span>
   <span id="f000190">announcing that it was “to let on very reasonable terms,</span>
   <span id="f000191">well furnished.” It was much too closely and heavily shadowed by trees,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and,</span>
   <span id="f000193">in particular,</span>
   <span id="f000194">there were six tall poplars before the front windows,</span>
   <span id="f000195">which were excessively melancholy,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and the site of which had been extremely ill chosen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">It was easy to see that it was an avoided house—a house that was shunned by the village,</span>
   <span id="f000198">to which my eye was guided by a church spire some half a mile off—a house that nobody would take.</span>
   <span id="f000199">And the natural inference was,</span>
   <span id="f000200">that it had the reputation of being a haunted house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">No period within the four-and-twenty hours of day and night is so solemn to me,</span>
   <span id="f000202">as the early morning.</span>
   <span id="f000203">In the summer-time,</span>
   <span id="f000204">I often rise very early,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and repair to my room to do a day’s work before breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and I am always on those occasions deeply impressed by the stillness and solitude around me.</span>
   <span id="f000207">Besides that there is something awful in the being surrounded by familiar faces asleep—in the knowledge that those who are dearest to us and to whom we are dearest,</span>
   <span id="f000208">are profoundly unconscious of us,</span>
   <span id="f000209">in an impassive state,</span>
   <span id="f000210">anticipative of that mysterious condition to which we are all tending—the stopped life,</span>
   <span id="f000211">the broken threads of yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000212">the deserted seat,</span>
   <span id="f000213">the closed book,</span>
   <span id="f000214">the unfinished but abandoned occupation,</span>
   <span id="f000215">all are images of Death.</span>
   <span id="f000216">The tranquillity of the hour is the tranquillity of Death.</span>
   <span id="f000217">The colour and the chill have the same association.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Even a certain air that familiar household objects take upon them when they first emerge from the shadows of the night into the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000219">of being newer,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and as they used to be long ago,</span>
   <span id="f000221">has its counterpart in the subsidence of the worn face of maturity or age,</span>
   <span id="f000222">in death,</span>
   <span id="f000223">into the old youthful look.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000225">I once saw the apparition of my father,</span>
   <span id="f000226">at this hour.</span>
   <span id="f000227">He was alive and well,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and nothing ever came of it,</span>
   <span id="f000229">but I saw him in the daylight,</span>
   <span id="f000230">sitting with his back towards me,</span>
   <span id="f000231">on a seat that stood beside my bed.</span>
   <span id="f000232">His head was resting on his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and whether he was slumbering or grieving,</span>
   <span id="f000234">I could not discern.</span>
   <span id="f000235">Amazed to see him there,</span>
   <span id="f000236">I sat up,</span>
   <span id="f000237">moved my position,</span>
   <span id="f000238">leaned out of bed,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and watched him.</span>
   <span id="f000240">As he did not move,</span>
   <span id="f000241">I spoke to him more than once.</span>
   <span id="f000242">As he did not move then,</span>
   <span id="f000243">I became alarmed and laid my hand upon his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000244">as I thought—and there was no such thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">For all these reasons,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and for others less easily and briefly statable,</span>
   <span id="f000247">I find the early morning to be my most ghostly time.</span>
   <span id="f000248">Any house would be more or less haunted,</span>
   <span id="f000249">to me,</span>
   <span id="f000250">in the early morning;</span>
   <span id="f000251">and a haunted house could scarcely address me to greater advantage than then.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">I walked on into the village,</span>
   <span id="f000253">with the desertion of this house upon my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and I found the landlord of the little inn,</span>
   <span id="f000255">sanding his door-step.</span>
   <span id="f000256">I bespoke breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and broached the subject of the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“Is it haunted?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">The landlord looked at me,</span>
   <span id="f000260">shook his head,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and answered,</span>
   <span id="f000262">“I say nothing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Then it <em>is</em> haunted?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“Well!” cried the landlord,</span>
   <span id="f000265">in an outburst of frankness that had the appearance of desperation—“I wouldn’t sleep in it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“Why not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“If I wanted to have all the bells in a house ring,</span>
   <span id="f000268">with nobody to ring ’em;</span>
   <span id="f000269">and all the doors in a house bang,</span>
   <span id="f000270">with nobody to bang ’em;</span>
   <span id="f000271">and all sorts of feet treading about,</span>
   <span id="f000272">with no feet there;</span>
   <span id="f000273">why,</span>
   <span id="f000274">then,” said the landlord,</span>
   <span id="f000275">“I’d sleep in that house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">“Is anything seen there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">The landlord looked at me again,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000279">with his former appearance of desperation,</span>
   <span id="f000280">called down his stable-yard for “Ikey!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">The call produced a high-shouldered young fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000282">with a round red face,</span>
   <span id="f000283">a short crop of sandy hair,</span>
   <span id="f000284">a very broad humorous mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000285">a turned-up nose,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and a great sleeved waistcoat of purple bars,</span>
   <span id="f000287">with mother-of-pearl buttons,</span>
   <span id="f000288">that seemed to be growing upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and to be in a fair way—if it were not pruned—of covering his head and overunning his boots.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“This gentleman wants to know,” said the landlord,</span>
   <span id="f000291">“if anything’s seen at the Poplars.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“’Ooded woman with a howl,” said Ikey,</span>
   <span id="f000293">in a state of great freshness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“Do you mean a cry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“I mean a bird,</span>
   <span id="f000296">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“A hooded woman with an owl.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Dear me!</span>
   <span id="f000299">Did you ever see her?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“I seen the howl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“Never the woman?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">“Not so plain as the howl,</span>
   <span id="f000303">but they always keeps together.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“Has anybody ever seen the woman as plainly as the owl?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“Lord bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000306">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000307">Lots.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Who?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“Lord bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000310">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000311">Lots.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“The general-dealer opposite,</span>
   <span id="f000313">for instance,</span>
   <span id="f000314">who is opening his shop?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“Perkins?</span>
   <span id="f000316">Bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000317">Perkins wouldn’t go a-nigh the place.</span>
   <span id="f000318">No!” observed the young man,</span>
   <span id="f000319">with considerable feeling;</span>
   <span id="f000320">“he an’t overwise,</span>
   <span id="f000321">an’t Perkins,</span>
   <span id="f000322">but he an’t such a fool as <em>that</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">(Here,</span>
   <span id="f000324">the landlord murmured his confidence in Perkins’s knowing better.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">“Who is—or who was—the hooded woman with the owl?</span>
   <span id="f000326">Do you know?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“Well!” said Ikey,</span>
   <span id="f000328">holding up his cap with one hand while he scratched his head with the other,</span>
   <span id="f000329">“they say,</span>
   <span id="f000330">in general,</span>
   <span id="f000331">that she was murdered,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and the howl he ’ooted the while.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">This very concise summary of the facts was all I could learn,</span>
   <span id="f000334">except that a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000335">as hearty and likely a young man as ever I see,</span>
   <span id="f000336">had been took with fits and held down in ’em,</span>
   <span id="f000337">after seeing the hooded woman.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000339">that a personage,</span>
   <span id="f000340">dimly described as “a hold chap,</span>
   <span id="f000341">a sort of one-eyed tramp,</span>
   <span id="f000342">answering to the name of Joby,</span>
   <span id="f000343">unless you challenged him as Greenwood,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and then he said,</span>
   <span id="f000345">‘Why not?</span>
   <span id="f000346">and even if so,</span>
   <span id="f000347">mind your own business,’” had encountered the hooded woman,</span>
   <span id="f000348">a matter of five or six times.</span>
   <span id="f000349">But,</span>
   <span id="f000350">I was not materially assisted by these witnesses:</span>
   <span id="f000351">inasmuch as the first was in California,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and the last was,</span>
   <span id="f000353">as Ikey said</span>
   <span id="f000354">(and he was confirmed by the landlord),</span>
   <span id="f000355">Anywheres.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000357">although I regard with a hushed and solemn fear,</span>
   <span id="f000358">the mysteries,</span>
   <span id="f000359">between which and this state of existence is interposed the barrier of the great trial and change that fall on all the things that live;</span>
   <span id="f000360">and although I have not the audacity to pretend that I know anything of them;</span>
   <span id="f000361">I can no more reconcile the mere banging of doors,</span>
   <span id="f000362">ringing of bells,</span>
   <span id="f000363">creaking of boards,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and such-like insignificances,</span>
   <span id="f000365">with the majestic beauty and pervading analogy of all the Divine rules that I am permitted to understand,</span>
   <span id="f000366">than I had been able,</span>
   <span id="f000367">a little while before,</span>
   <span id="f000368">to yoke the spiritual intercourse of my fellow-traveller to the chariot of the rising sun.</span>
   <span id="f000369">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000370">I had lived in two haunted houses—both abroad.</span>
   <span id="f000371">In one of these,</span>
   <span id="f000372">an old Italian palace,</span>
   <span id="f000373">which bore the reputation of being very badly haunted indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and which had recently been twice abandoned on that account,</span>
   <span id="f000375">I lived eight months,</span>
   <span id="f000376">most tranquilly and pleasantly:</span>
   <span id="f000377">notwithstanding that the house had a score of mysterious bedrooms,</span>
   <span id="f000378">which were never used,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and possessed,</span>
   <span id="f000380">in one large room in which I sat reading,</span>
   <span id="f000381">times out of number at all hours,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and next to which I slept,</span>
   <span id="f000383">a haunted chamber of the first pretensions.</span>
   <span id="f000384">I gently hinted these considerations to the landlord.</span>
   <span id="f000385">And as to this particular house having a bad name,</span>
   <span id="f000386">I reasoned with him,</span>
   <span id="f000387">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000388">how many things had bad names undeservedly,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and how easy it was to give bad names,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and did he not think that if he and I were persistently to whisper in the village that any weird-looking,</span>
   <span id="f000391">old drunken tinker of the neighbourhood had sold himself to the Devil,</span>
   <span id="f000392">he would come in time to be suspected of that commercial venture!</span>
   <span id="f000393">All this wise talk was perfectly ineffective with the landlord,</span>
   <span id="f000394">I am bound to confess,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and was as dead a failure as ever I made in my life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">To cut this part of the story short,</span>
   <span id="f000397">I was piqued about the haunted house,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and was already half resolved to take it.</span>
   <span id="f000399">So,</span>
   <span id="f000400">after breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000401">I got the keys from Perkins’s brother-in-law</span>
   <span id="f000402">(a whip and harness maker,</span>
   <span id="f000403">who keeps the Post Office,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and is under submission to a most rigorous wife of the Doubly Seceding Little Emmanuel persuasion),</span>
   <span id="f000405">and went up to the house,</span>
   <span id="f000406">attended by my landlord and by Ikey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">Within,</span>
   <span id="f000408">I found it,</span>
   <span id="f000409">as I had expected,</span>
   <span id="f000410">transcendently dismal.</span>
   <span id="f000411">The slowly changing shadows waved on it from the heavy trees,</span>
   <span id="f000412">were doleful in the last degree;</span>
   <span id="f000413">the house was ill-placed,</span>
   <span id="f000414">ill-built,</span>
   <span id="f000415">ill-planned,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and ill-fitted.</span>
   <span id="f000417">It was damp,</span>
   <span id="f000418">it was not free from dry rot,</span>
   <span id="f000419">there was a flavour of rats in it,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and it was the gloomy victim of that indescribable decay which settles on all the work of man’s hands whenever it’s not turned to man’s account.</span>
   <span id="f000421">The kitchens and offices were too large,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and too remote from each other.</span>
   <span id="f000423">Above stairs and below,</span>
   <span id="f000424">waste tracts of passage intervened between patches of fertility represented by rooms;</span>
   <span id="f000425">and there was a mouldy old well with a green growth upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000426">hiding like a murderous trap,</span>
   <span id="f000427">near the bottom of the back-stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000428">under the double row of bells.</span>
   <span id="f000429">One of these bells was labelled,</span>
   <span id="f000430">on a black ground in faded white letters,</span>
   <span id="f000431">MASTER B.</span>
   <span id="f000432">This,</span>
   <span id="f000433">they told me,</span>
   <span id="f000434">was the bell that rang the most.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">“Who was Master B.?” I asked.</span>
   <span id="f000436">“Is it known what he did while the owl hooted?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“Rang the bell,” said Ikey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">I was rather struck by the prompt dexterity with which this young man pitched his fur cap at the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and rang it himself.</span>
   <span id="f000440">It was a loud,</span>
   <span id="f000441">unpleasant bell,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and made a very disagreeable sound.</span>
   <span id="f000443">The other bells were inscribed according to the names of the rooms to which their wires were conducted:</span>
   <span id="f000444">as “Picture Room,” “Double Room,” “Clock Room,” and the like.</span>
   <span id="f000445">Following Master B.’s bell to its source I found that young gentleman to have had but indifferent third-class accommodation in a triangular cabin under the cock-loft,</span>
   <span id="f000446">with a corner fireplace which Master B.</span>
   <span id="f000447">must have been exceedingly small if he were ever able to warm himself at,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and a corner chimney-piece like a pyramidal staircase to the ceiling for Tom Thumb.</span>
   <span id="f000449">The papering of one side of the room had dropped down bodily,</span>
   <span id="f000450">with fragments of plaster adhering to it,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and almost blocked up the door.</span>
   <span id="f000452">It appeared that Master B.,</span>
   <span id="f000453">in his spiritual condition,</span>
   <span id="f000454">always made a point of pulling the paper down.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Neither the landlord nor Ikey could suggest why he made such a fool of himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">Except that the house had an immensely large rambling loft at top,</span>
   <span id="f000457">I made no other discoveries.</span>
   <span id="f000458">It was moderately well furnished,</span>
   <span id="f000459">but sparely.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Some of the furniture—say,</span>
   <span id="f000461">a third—was as old as the house;</span>
   <span id="f000462">the rest was of various periods within the last half-century.</span>
   <span id="f000463">I was referred to a corn-chandler in the market-place of the county town to treat for the house.</span>
   <span id="f000464">I went that day,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and I took it for six months.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">It was just the middle of October when I moved in with my maiden sister</span>
   <span id="f000467">(I venture to call her eight-and-thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000468">she is so very handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000469">sensible,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and engaging).</span>
   <span id="f000471">We took with us,</span>
   <span id="f000472">a deaf stable-man,</span>
   <span id="f000473">my bloodhound Turk,</span>
   <span id="f000474">two women servants,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and a young person called an Odd Girl.</span>
   <span id="f000476">I have reason to record of the attendant last enumerated,</span>
   <span id="f000477">who was one of the Saint Lawrence’s Union Female Orphans,</span>
   <span id="f000478">that she was a fatal mistake and a disastrous engagement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">The year was dying early,</span>
   <span id="f000480">the leaves were falling fast,</span>
   <span id="f000481">it was a raw cold day when we took possession,</span>
   <span id="f000482">and the gloom of the house was most depressing.</span>
   <span id="f000483">The cook</span>
   <span id="f000484">(an amiable woman,</span>
   <span id="f000485">but of a weak turn of intellect)</span>
   <span id="f000486">burst into tears on beholding the kitchen,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and requested that her silver watch might be delivered over to her sister</span>
   <span id="f000488">(2 Tuppintock’s Gardens,</span>
   <span id="f000489">Liggs’s Walk,</span>
   <span id="f000490">Clapham Rise),</span>
   <span id="f000491">in the event of anything happening to her from the damp.</span>
   <span id="f000492">Streaker,</span>
   <span id="f000493">the housemaid,</span>
   <span id="f000494">feigned cheerfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000495">but was the greater martyr.</span>
   <span id="f000496">The Odd Girl,</span>
   <span id="f000497">who had never been in the country,</span>
   <span id="f000498">alone was pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and made arrangements for sowing an acorn in the garden outside the scullery window,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and rearing an oak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">We went,</span>
   <span id="f000502">before dark,</span>
   <span id="f000503">through all the natural—as opposed to supernatural—miseries incidental to our state.</span>
   <span id="f000504">Dispiriting reports ascended</span>
   <span id="f000505">(like the smoke)</span>
   <span id="f000506">from the basement in volumes,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and descended from the upper rooms.</span>
   <span id="f000508">There was no rolling-pin,</span>
   <span id="f000509">there was no salamander</span>
   <span id="f000510">(which failed to surprise me,</span>
   <span id="f000511">for I don’t know what it is),</span>
   <span id="f000512">there was nothing in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000513">what there was,</span>
   <span id="f000514">was broken,</span>
   <span id="f000515">the last people must have lived like pigs,</span>
   <span id="f000516">what could the meaning of the landlord be?</span>
   <span id="f000517">Through these distresses,</span>
   <span id="f000518">the Odd Girl was cheerful and exemplary.</span>
   <span id="f000519">But within four hours after dark we had got into a supernatural groove,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and the Odd Girl had seen “Eyes,” and was in hysterics.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">My sister and I had agreed to keep the haunting strictly to ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and my impression was,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and still is,</span>
   <span id="f000524">that I had not left Ikey,</span>
   <span id="f000525">when he helped to unload the cart,</span>
   <span id="f000526">alone with the women,</span>
   <span id="f000527">or any one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000528">for one minute.</span>
   <span id="f000529">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000530">as I say,</span>
   <span id="f000531">the Odd Girl had “seen Eyes”</span>
   <span id="f000532">(no other explanation could ever be drawn from her),</span>
   <span id="f000533">before nine,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and by ten o’clock had had as much vinegar applied to her as would pickle a handsome salmon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">I leave a discerning public to judge of my feelings,</span>
   <span id="f000536">when,</span>
   <span id="f000537">under these untoward circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000538">at about half-past ten o’clock Master B.’s bell began to ring in a most infuriated manner,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and Turk howled until the house resounded with his lamentations!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">I hope I may never again be in a state of mind so unchristian as the mental frame in which I lived for some weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000541">respecting the memory of Master B.</span>
   <span id="f000542">Whether his bell was rung by rats,</span>
   <span id="f000543">or mice,</span>
   <span id="f000544">or bats,</span>
   <span id="f000545">or wind,</span>
   <span id="f000546">or what other accidental vibration,</span>
   <span id="f000547">or sometimes by one cause,</span>
   <span id="f000548">sometimes another,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and sometimes by collusion,</span>
   <span id="f000550">I don’t know;</span>
   <span id="f000551">but,</span>
   <span id="f000552">certain it is,</span>
   <span id="f000553">that it did ring two nights out of three,</span>
   <span id="f000554">until I conceived the happy idea of twisting Master B.’s neck—in other words,</span>
   <span id="f000555">breaking his bell short off—and silencing that young gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000556">as to my experience and belief,</span>
   <span id="f000557">for ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">But,</span>
   <span id="f000559">by that time,</span>
   <span id="f000560">the Odd Girl had developed such improving powers of catalepsy,</span>
   <span id="f000561">that she had become a shining example of that very inconvenient disorder.</span>
   <span id="f000562">She would stiffen,</span>
   <span id="f000563">like a Guy Fawkes endowed with unreason,</span>
   <span id="f000564">on the most irrelevant occasions.</span>
   <span id="f000565">I would address the servants in a lucid manner,</span>
   <span id="f000566">pointing out to them that I had painted Master B.’s room and balked the paper,</span>
   <span id="f000567">and taken Master B.’s bell away and balked the ringing,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and if they could suppose that that confounded boy had lived and died,</span>
   <span id="f000569">to clothe himself with no better behaviour than would most unquestionably have brought him and the sharpest particles of a birch-broom into close acquaintance in the present imperfect state of existence,</span>
   <span id="f000570">could they also suppose a mere poor human being,</span>
   <span id="f000571">such as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000572">capable by those contemptible means of counteracting and limiting the powers of the disembodied spirits of the dead,</span>
   <span id="f000573">or of any spirits?—I say I would become emphatic and cogent,</span>
   <span id="f000574">not to say rather complacent,</span>
   <span id="f000575">in such an address,</span>
   <span id="f000576">when it would all go for nothing by reason of the Odd Girl’s suddenly stiffening from the toes upward,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and glaring among us like a parochial petrifaction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000578">Streaker,</span>
   <span id="f000579">the housemaid,</span>
   <span id="f000580">too,</span>
   <span id="f000581">had an attribute of a most discomfiting nature.</span>
   <span id="f000582">I am unable to say whether she was of an unusually lymphatic temperament,</span>
   <span id="f000583">or what else was the matter with her,</span>
   <span id="f000584">but this young woman became a mere Distillery for the production of the largest and most transparent tears I ever met with.</span>
   <span id="f000585">Combined with these characteristics,</span>
   <span id="f000586">was a peculiar tenacity of hold in those specimens,</span>
   <span id="f000587">so that they didn’t fall,</span>
   <span id="f000588">but hung upon her face and nose.</span>
   <span id="f000589">In this condition,</span>
   <span id="f000590">and mildly and deplorably shaking her head,</span>
   <span id="f000591">her silence would throw me more heavily than the Admirable Crichton could have done in a verbal disputation for a purse of money.</span>
   <span id="f000592">Cook,</span>
   <span id="f000593">likewise,</span>
   <span id="f000594">always covered me with confusion as with a garment,</span>
   <span id="f000595">by neatly winding up the session with the protest that the Ouse was wearing her out,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and by meekly repeating her last wishes regarding her silver watch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">As to our nightly life,</span>
   <span id="f000598">the contagion of suspicion and fear was among us,</span>
   <span id="f000599">and there is no such contagion under the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000600">Hooded woman?</span>
   <span id="f000601">According to the accounts,</span>
   <span id="f000602">we were in a perfect Convent of hooded women.</span>
   <span id="f000603">Noises?</span>
   <span id="f000604">With that contagion downstairs,</span>
   <span id="f000605">I myself have sat in the dismal parlour,</span>
   <span id="f000606">listening,</span>
   <span id="f000607">until I have heard so many and such strange noises,</span>
   <span id="f000608">that they would have chilled my blood if I had not warmed it by dashing out to make discoveries.</span>
   <span id="f000609">Try this in bed,</span>
   <span id="f000610">in the dead of the night:</span>
   <span id="f000611">try this at your own comfortable fire-side,</span>
   <span id="f000612">in the life of the night.</span>
   <span id="f000613">You can fill any house with noises,</span>
   <span id="f000614">if you will,</span>
   <span id="f000615">until you have a noise for every nerve in your nervous system.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">I repeat;</span>
   <span id="f000617">the contagion of suspicion and fear was among us,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and there is no such contagion under the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000619">The women</span>
   <span id="f000620">(their noses in a chronic state of excoriation from smelling-salts)</span>
   <span id="f000621">were always primed and loaded for a swoon,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and ready to go off with hair-triggers.</span>
   <span id="f000623">The two elder detached the Odd Girl on all expeditions that were considered doubly hazardous,</span>
   <span id="f000624">and she always established the reputation of such adventures by coming back cataleptic.</span>
   <span id="f000625">If Cook or Streaker went overhead after dark,</span>
   <span id="f000626">we knew we should presently hear a bump on the ceiling;</span>
   <span id="f000627">and this took place so constantly,</span>
   <span id="f000628">that it was as if a fighting man were engaged to go about the house,</span>
   <span id="f000629">administering a touch of his art which I believe is called The Auctioneer,</span>
   <span id="f000630">to every domestic he met with.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">It was in vain to do anything.</span>
   <span id="f000632">It was in vain to be frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000633">for the moment in one’s own person,</span>
   <span id="f000634">by a real owl,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and then to show the owl.</span>
   <span id="f000636">It was in vain to discover,</span>
   <span id="f000637">by striking an accidental discord on the piano,</span>
   <span id="f000638">that Turk always howled at particular notes and combinations.</span>
   <span id="f000639">It was in vain to be a Rhadamanthus with the bells,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and if an unfortunate bell rang without leave,</span>
   <span id="f000641">to have it down inexorably and silence it.</span>
   <span id="f000642">It was in vain to fire up chimneys,</span>
   <span id="f000643">let torches down the well,</span>
   <span id="f000644">charge furiously into suspected rooms and recesses.</span>
   <span id="f000645">We changed servants,</span>
   <span id="f000646">and it was no better.</span>
   <span id="f000647">The new set ran away,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and a third set came,</span>
   <span id="f000649">and it was no better.</span>
   <span id="f000650">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000651">our comfortable housekeeping got to be so disorganised and wretched,</span>
   <span id="f000652">that I one night dejectedly said to my sister:</span>
   <span id="f000653">“Patty,</span>
   <span id="f000654">I begin to despair of our getting people to go on with us here,</span>
   <span id="f000655">and I think we must give this up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">My sister,</span>
   <span id="f000657">who is a woman of immense spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000658">replied,</span>
   <span id="f000659">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000660">John,</span>
   <span id="f000661">don’t give it up.</span>
   <span id="f000662">Don’t be beaten,</span>
   <span id="f000663">John.</span>
   <span id="f000664">There is another way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">“And what is that?” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">“John,” returned my sister,</span>
   <span id="f000667">“if we are not to be driven out of this house,</span>
   <span id="f000668">and that for no reason whatever,</span>
   <span id="f000669">that is apparent to you or me,</span>
   <span id="f000670">we must help ourselves and take the house wholly and solely into our own hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000672">the servants,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“Have no servants,” said my sister,</span>
   <span id="f000674">boldly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">Like most people in my grade of life,</span>
   <span id="f000676">I had never thought of the possibility of going on without those faithful obstructions.</span>
   <span id="f000677">The notion was so new to me when suggested,</span>
   <span id="f000678">that I looked very doubtful.</span>
   <span id="f000679">“We know they come here to be frightened and infect one another,</span>
   <span id="f000680">and we know they are frightened and do infect one another,” said my sister.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“With the exception of Bottles,” I observed,</span>
   <span id="f000682">in a meditative tone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">(The deaf stable-man.</span>
   <span id="f000684">I kept him in my service,</span>
   <span id="f000685">and still keep him,</span>
   <span id="f000686">as a phenomenon of moroseness not to be matched in England.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000687">“To be sure,</span>
   <span id="f000688">John,” assented my sister;</span>
   <span id="f000689">“except Bottles.</span>
   <span id="f000690">And what does that go to prove?</span>
   <span id="f000691">Bottles talks to nobody,</span>
   <span id="f000692">and hears nobody unless he is absolutely roared at,</span>
   <span id="f000693">and what alarm has Bottles ever given,</span>
   <span id="f000694">or taken!</span>
   <span id="f000695">None.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">This was perfectly true;</span>
   <span id="f000697">the individual in question having retired,</span>
   <span id="f000698">every night at ten o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000699">to his bed over the coach-house,</span>
   <span id="f000700">with no other company than a pitchfork and a pail of water.</span>
   <span id="f000701">That the pail of water would have been over me,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and the pitchfork through me,</span>
   <span id="f000703">if I had put myself without announcement in Bottles’s way after that minute,</span>
   <span id="f000704">I had deposited in my own mind as a fact worth remembering.</span>
   <span id="f000705">Neither had Bottles ever taken the least notice of any of our many uproars.</span>
   <span id="f000706">An imperturbable and speechless man,</span>
   <span id="f000707">he had sat at his supper,</span>
   <span id="f000708">with Streaker present in a swoon,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and the Odd Girl marble,</span>
   <span id="f000710">and had only put another potato in his cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000711">or profited by the general misery to help himself to beefsteak pie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">“And so,” continued my sister,</span>
   <span id="f000713">“I exempt Bottles.</span>
   <span id="f000714">And considering,</span>
   <span id="f000715">John,</span>
   <span id="f000716">that the house is too large,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and perhaps too lonely,</span>
   <span id="f000718">to be kept well in hand by Bottles,</span>
   <span id="f000719">you,</span>
   <span id="f000720">and me,</span>
   <span id="f000721">I propose that we cast about among our friends for a certain selected number of the most reliable and willing—form a Society here for three months—wait upon ourselves and one another—live cheerfully and socially—and see what happens.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000722">I was so charmed with my sister,</span>
   <span id="f000723">that I embraced her on the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000724">and went into her plan with the greatest ardour.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">We were then in the third week of November;</span>
   <span id="f000726">but,</span>
   <span id="f000727">we took our measures so vigorously,</span>
   <span id="f000728">and were so well seconded by the friends in whom we confided,</span>
   <span id="f000729">that there was still a week of the month unexpired,</span>
   <span id="f000730">when our party all came down together merrily,</span>
   <span id="f000731">and mustered in the haunted house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">I will mention,</span>
   <span id="f000733">in this place,</span>
   <span id="f000734">two small changes that I made while my sister and I were yet alone.</span>
   <span id="f000735">It occurring to me as not improbable that Turk howled in the house at night,</span>
   <span id="f000736">partly because he wanted to get out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000737">I stationed him in his kennel outside,</span>
   <span id="f000738">but unchained;</span>
   <span id="f000739">and I seriously warned the village that any man who came in his way must not expect to leave him without a rip in his own throat.</span>
   <span id="f000740">I then casually asked Ikey if he were a judge of a gun?</span>
   <span id="f000741">On his saying,</span>
   <span id="f000742">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000743">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000744">I knows a good gun when I sees her,” I begged the favour of his stepping up to the house and looking at mine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">“<em>She’s</em> a true one,</span>
   <span id="f000746">sir,” said Ikey,</span>
   <span id="f000747">after inspecting a double-barrelled rifle that I bought in New York a few years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000748">“No mistake about <em>her</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000749">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“Ikey,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000751">“don’t mention it;</span>
   <span id="f000752">I have seen something in this house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000754">sir?” he whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000755">greedily opening his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000756">“’Ooded lady,</span>
   <span id="f000757">sir?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000758">“Don’t be frightened,” said I.</span>
   <span id="f000759">“It was a figure rather like you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000760">“Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000761">sir?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">“Ikey!” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000763">shaking hands with him warmly:</span>
   <span id="f000764">I may say affectionately;</span>
   <span id="f000765">“if there is any truth in these ghost-stories,</span>
   <span id="f000766">the greatest service I can do you,</span>
   <span id="f000767">is,</span>
   <span id="f000768">to fire at that figure.</span>
   <span id="f000769">And I promise you,</span>
   <span id="f000770">by Heaven and earth,</span>
   <span id="f000771">I will do it with this gun if I see it again!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000772">The young man thanked me,</span>
   <span id="f000773">and took his leave with some little precipitation,</span>
   <span id="f000774">after declining a glass of liquor.</span>
   <span id="f000775">I imparted my secret to him,</span>
   <span id="f000776">because I had never quite forgotten his throwing his cap at the bell;</span>
   <span id="f000777">because I had,</span>
   <span id="f000778">on another occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000779">noticed something very like a fur cap,</span>
   <span id="f000780">lying not far from the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000781">one night when it had burst out ringing;</span>
   <span id="f000782">and because I had remarked that we were at our ghostliest whenever he came up in the evening to comfort the servants.</span>
   <span id="f000783">Let me do Ikey no injustice.</span>
   <span id="f000784">He was afraid of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000785">and believed in its being haunted;</span>
   <span id="f000786">and yet he would play false on the haunting side,</span>
   <span id="f000787">so surely as he got an opportunity.</span>
   <span id="f000788">The Odd Girl’s case was exactly similar.</span>
   <span id="f000789">She went about the house in a state of real terror,</span>
   <span id="f000790">and yet lied monstrously and wilfully,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and invented many of the alarms she spread,</span>
   <span id="f000792">and made many of the sounds we heard.</span>
   <span id="f000793">I had had my eye on the two,</span>
   <span id="f000794">and I know it.</span>
   <span id="f000795">It is not necessary for me,</span>
   <span id="f000796">here,</span>
   <span id="f000797">to account for this preposterous state of mind;</span>
   <span id="f000798">I content myself with remarking that it is familiarly known to every intelligent man who has had fair medical,</span>
   <span id="f000799">legal,</span>
   <span id="f000800">or other watchful experience;</span>
   <span id="f000801">that it is as well established and as common a state of mind as any with which observers are acquainted;</span>
   <span id="f000802">and that it is one of the first elements,</span>
   <span id="f000803">above all others,</span>
   <span id="f000804">rationally to be suspected in,</span>
   <span id="f000805">and strictly looked for,</span>
   <span id="f000806">and separated from,</span>
   <span id="f000807">any question of this kind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">To return to our party.</span>
   <span id="f000809">The first thing we did when we were all assembled,</span>
   <span id="f000810">was,</span>
   <span id="f000811">to draw lots for bedrooms.</span>
   <span id="f000812">That done,</span>
   <span id="f000813">and every bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000814">and,</span>
   <span id="f000815">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000816">the whole house,</span>
   <span id="f000817">having been minutely examined by the whole body,</span>
   <span id="f000818">we allotted the various household duties,</span>
   <span id="f000819">as if we had been on a gipsy party,</span>
   <span id="f000820">or a yachting party,</span>
   <span id="f000821">or a hunting party,</span>
   <span id="f000822">or were shipwrecked.</span>
   <span id="f000823">I then recounted the floating rumours concerning the hooded lady,</span>
   <span id="f000824">the owl,</span>
   <span id="f000825">and Master B.:</span>
   <span id="f000826">with others,</span>
   <span id="f000827">still more filmy,</span>
   <span id="f000828">which had floated about during our occupation,</span>
   <span id="f000829">relative to some ridiculous old ghost of the female gender who went up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000830">carrying the ghost of a round table;</span>
   <span id="f000831">and also to an impalpable Jackass,</span>
   <span id="f000832">whom nobody was ever able to catch.</span>
   <span id="f000833">Some of these ideas I really believe our people below had communicated to one another in some diseased way,</span>
   <span id="f000834">without conveying them in words.</span>
   <span id="f000835">We then gravely called one another to witness,</span>
   <span id="f000836">that we were not there to be deceived,</span>
   <span id="f000837">or to deceive—which we considered pretty much the same thing—and that,</span>
   <span id="f000838">with a serious sense of responsibility,</span>
   <span id="f000839">we would be strictly true to one another,</span>
   <span id="f000840">and would strictly follow out the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000841">The understanding was established,</span>
   <span id="f000842">that any one who heard unusual noises in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000843">and who wished to trace them,</span>
   <span id="f000844">should knock at my door;</span>
   <span id="f000845">lastly,</span>
   <span id="f000846">that on Twelfth Night,</span>
   <span id="f000847">the last night of holy Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000848">all our individual experiences since that then present hour of our coming together in the haunted house,</span>
   <span id="f000849">should be brought to light for the good of all;</span>
   <span id="f000850">and that we would hold our peace on the subject till then,</span>
   <span id="f000851">unless on some remarkable provocation to break silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">We were,</span>
   <span id="f000853">in number and in character,</span>
   <span id="f000854">as follows:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">First—to get my sister and myself out of the way—there were we two.</span>
   <span id="f000856">In the drawing of lots,</span>
   <span id="f000857">my sister drew her own room,</span>
   <span id="f000858">and I drew Master B.’s.</span>
   <span id="f000859">Next,</span>
   <span id="f000860">there was our first cousin John Herschel,</span>
   <span id="f000861">so called after the great astronomer:</span>
   <span id="f000862">than whom I suppose a better man at a telescope does not breathe.</span>
   <span id="f000863">With him,</span>
   <span id="f000864">was his wife:</span>
   <span id="f000865">a charming creature to whom he had been married in the previous spring.</span>
   <span id="f000866">I thought it</span>
   <span id="f000867">(under the circumstances)</span>
   <span id="f000868">rather imprudent to bring her,</span>
   <span id="f000869">because there is no knowing what even a false alarm may do at such a time;</span>
   <span id="f000870">but I suppose he knew his own business best,</span>
   <span id="f000871">and I must say that if she had been <em>my</em> wife,</span>
   <span id="f000872">I never could have left her endearing and bright face behind.</span>
   <span id="f000873">They drew the Clock Room.</span>
   <span id="f000874">Alfred Starling,</span>
   <span id="f000875">an uncommonly agreeable young fellow of eight-and-twenty for whom I have the greatest liking,</span>
   <span id="f000876">was in the Double Room;</span>
   <span id="f000877">mine,</span>
   <span id="f000878">usually,</span>
   <span id="f000879">and designated by that name from having a dressing-room within it,</span>
   <span id="f000880">with two large and cumbersome windows,</span>
   <span id="f000881">which no wedges <em>I</em> was ever able to make,</span>
   <span id="f000882">would keep from shaking,</span>
   <span id="f000883">in any weather,</span>
   <span id="f000884">wind or no wind.</span>
   <span id="f000885">Alfred is a young fellow who pretends to be “fast”</span>
   <span id="f000886">(another word for loose,</span>
   <span id="f000887">as I understand the term),</span>
   <span id="f000888">but who is much too good and sensible for that nonsense,</span>
   <span id="f000889">and who would have distinguished himself before now,</span>
   <span id="f000890">if his father had not unfortunately left him a small independence of two hundred a year,</span>
   <span id="f000891">on the strength of which his only occupation in life has been to spend six.</span>
   <span id="f000892">I am in hopes,</span>
   <span id="f000893">however,</span>
   <span id="f000894">that his Banker may break,</span>
   <span id="f000895">or that he may enter into some speculation guaranteed to pay twenty per cent.;</span>
   <span id="f000896">for,</span>
   <span id="f000897">I am convinced that if he could only be ruined,</span>
   <span id="f000898">his fortune is made.</span>
   <span id="f000899">Belinda Bates,</span>
   <span id="f000900">bosom friend of my sister,</span>
   <span id="f000901">and a most intellectual,</span>
   <span id="f000902">amiable,</span>
   <span id="f000903">and delightful girl,</span>
   <span id="f000904">got the Picture Room.</span>
   <span id="f000905">She has a fine genius for poetry,</span>
   <span id="f000906">combined with real business earnestness,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and “goes in”—to use an expression of Alfred’s—for Woman’s mission,</span>
   <span id="f000908">Woman’s rights,</span>
   <span id="f000909">Woman’s wrongs,</span>
   <span id="f000910">and everything that is woman’s with a capital W,</span>
   <span id="f000911">or is not and ought to be,</span>
   <span id="f000912">or is and ought not to be.</span>
   <span id="f000913">“Most praiseworthy,</span>
   <span id="f000914">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000915">and Heaven prosper you!” I whispered to her on the first night of my taking leave of her at the Picture-Room door,</span>
   <span id="f000916">“but don’t overdo it.</span>
   <span id="f000917">And in respect of the great necessity there is,</span>
   <span id="f000918">my darling,</span>
   <span id="f000919">for more employments being within the reach of Woman than our civilisation has as yet assigned to her,</span>
   <span id="f000920">don’t fly at the unfortunate men,</span>
   <span id="f000921">even those men who are at first sight in your way,</span>
   <span id="f000922">as if they were the natural oppressors of your sex;</span>
   <span id="f000923">for,</span>
   <span id="f000924">trust me,</span>
   <span id="f000925">Belinda,</span>
   <span id="f000926">they do sometimes spend their wages among wives and daughters,</span>
   <span id="f000927">sisters,</span>
   <span id="f000928">mothers,</span>
   <span id="f000929">aunts,</span>
   <span id="f000930">and grandmothers;</span>
   <span id="f000931">and the play is,</span>
   <span id="f000932">really,</span>
   <span id="f000933">not <em>all</em> Wolf and Red Riding-Hood,</span>
   <span id="f000934">but has other parts in it.” However,</span>
   <span id="f000935">I digress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000936">Belinda,</span>
   <span id="f000937">as I have mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000938">occupied the Picture Room.</span>
   <span id="f000939">We had but three other chambers:</span>
   <span id="f000940">the Corner Room,</span>
   <span id="f000941">the Cupboard Room,</span>
   <span id="f000942">and the Garden Room.</span>
   <span id="f000943">My old friend,</span>
   <span id="f000944">Jack Governor,</span>
   <span id="f000945">“slung his hammock,” as he called it,</span>
   <span id="f000946">in the Corner Room.</span>
   <span id="f000947">I have always regarded Jack as the finest-looking sailor that ever sailed.</span>
   <span id="f000948">He is gray now,</span>
   <span id="f000949">but as handsome as he was a quarter of a century ago—nay,</span>
   <span id="f000950">handsomer.</span>
   <span id="f000951">A portly,</span>
   <span id="f000952">cheery,</span>
   <span id="f000953">well-built figure of a broad-shouldered man,</span>
   <span id="f000954">with a frank smile,</span>
   <span id="f000955">a brilliant dark eye,</span>
   <span id="f000956">and a rich dark eyebrow.</span>
   <span id="f000957">I remember those under darker hair,</span>
   <span id="f000958">and they look all the better for their silver setting.</span>
   <span id="f000959">He has been wherever his Union namesake flies,</span>
   <span id="f000960">has Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000961">and I have met old shipmates of his,</span>
   <span id="f000962">away in the Mediterranean and on the other side of the Atlantic,</span>
   <span id="f000963">who have beamed and brightened at the casual mention of his name,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and have cried,</span>
   <span id="f000965">“You know Jack Governor?</span>
   <span id="f000966">Then you know a prince of men!” That he is!</span>
   <span id="f000967">And so unmistakably a naval officer,</span>
   <span id="f000968">that if you were to meet him coming out of an Esquimaux snow-hut in seal’s skin,</span>
   <span id="f000969">you would be vaguely persuaded he was in full naval uniform.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000970">Jack once had that bright clear eye of his on my sister;</span>
   <span id="f000971">but,</span>
   <span id="f000972">it fell out that he married another lady and took her to South America,</span>
   <span id="f000973">where she died.</span>
   <span id="f000974">This was a dozen years ago or more.</span>
   <span id="f000975">He brought down with him to our haunted house a little cask of salt beef;</span>
   <span id="f000976">for,</span>
   <span id="f000977">he is always convinced that all salt beef not of his own pickling,</span>
   <span id="f000978">is mere carrion,</span>
   <span id="f000979">and invariably,</span>
   <span id="f000980">when he goes to London,</span>
   <span id="f000981">packs a piece in his portmanteau.</span>
   <span id="f000982">He had also volunteered to bring with him one “Nat Beaver,” an old comrade of his,</span>
   <span id="f000983">captain of a merchantman.</span>
   <span id="f000984">Mr.&#160;Beaver,</span>
   <span id="f000985">with a thick-set wooden face and figure,</span>
   <span id="f000986">and apparently as hard as a block all over,</span>
   <span id="f000987">proved to be an intelligent man,</span>
   <span id="f000988">with a world of watery experiences in him,</span>
   <span id="f000989">and great practical knowledge.</span>
   <span id="f000990">At times,</span>
   <span id="f000991">there was a curious nervousness about him,</span>
   <span id="f000992">apparently the lingering result of some old illness;</span>
   <span id="f000993">but,</span>
   <span id="f000994">it seldom lasted many minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000995">He got the Cupboard Room,</span>
   <span id="f000996">and lay there next to Mr.&#160;Undery,</span>
   <span id="f000997">my friend and solicitor:</span>
   <span id="f000998">who came down,</span>
   <span id="f000999">in an amateur capacity,</span>
   <span id="f001000">“to go through with it,” as he said,</span>
   <span id="f001001">and who plays whist better than the whole Law List,</span>
   <span id="f001002">from the red cover at the beginning to the red cover at the end.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001003">I never was happier in my life,</span>
   <span id="f001004">and I believe it was the universal feeling among us.</span>
   <span id="f001005">Jack Governor,</span>
   <span id="f001006">always a man of wonderful resources,</span>
   <span id="f001007">was Chief Cook,</span>
   <span id="f001008">and made some of the best dishes I ever ate,</span>
   <span id="f001009">including unapproachable curries.</span>
   <span id="f001010">My sister was pastrycook and confectioner.</span>
   <span id="f001011">Starling and I were Cook’s Mate,</span>
   <span id="f001012">turn and turn about,</span>
   <span id="f001013">and on special occasions the chief cook “pressed” Mr.&#160;Beaver.</span>
   <span id="f001014">We had a great deal of out-door sport and exercise,</span>
   <span id="f001015">but nothing was neglected within,</span>
   <span id="f001016">and there was no ill-humour or misunderstanding among us,</span>
   <span id="f001017">and our evenings were so delightful that we had at least one good reason for being reluctant to go to bed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001018">We had a few night alarms in the beginning.</span>
   <span id="f001019">On the first night,</span>
   <span id="f001020">I was knocked up by Jack with a most wonderful ship’s lantern in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f001021">like the gills of some monster of the deep,</span>
   <span id="f001022">who informed me that he “was going aloft to the main truck,” to have the weathercock down.</span>
   <span id="f001023">It was a stormy night and I remonstrated;</span>
   <span id="f001024">but Jack called my attention to its making a sound like a cry of despair,</span>
   <span id="f001025">and said somebody would be “hailing a ghost” presently,</span>
   <span id="f001026">if it wasn’t done.</span>
   <span id="f001027">So,</span>
   <span id="f001028">up to the top of the house,</span>
   <span id="f001029">where I could hardly stand for the wind,</span>
   <span id="f001030">we went,</span>
   <span id="f001031">accompanied by Mr.&#160;Beaver;</span>
   <span id="f001032">and there Jack,</span>
   <span id="f001033">lantern and all,</span>
   <span id="f001034">with Mr.&#160;Beaver after him,</span>
   <span id="f001035">swarmed up to the top of a cupola,</span>
   <span id="f001036">some two dozen feet above the chimneys,</span>
   <span id="f001037">and stood upon nothing particular,</span>
   <span id="f001038">coolly knocking the weathercock off,</span>
   <span id="f001039">until they both got into such good spirits with the wind and the height,</span>
   <span id="f001040">that I thought they would never come down.</span>
   <span id="f001041">Another night,</span>
   <span id="f001042">they turned out again,</span>
   <span id="f001043">and had a chimney-cowl off.</span>
   <span id="f001044">Another night,</span>
   <span id="f001045">they cut a sobbing and gulping water-pipe away.</span>
   <span id="f001046">Another night,</span>
   <span id="f001047">they found out something else.</span>
   <span id="f001048">On several occasions,</span>
   <span id="f001049">they both,</span>
   <span id="f001050">in the coolest manner,</span>
   <span id="f001051">simultaneously dropped out of their respective bedroom windows,</span>
   <span id="f001052">hand over hand by their counterpanes,</span>
   <span id="f001053">to “overhaul” something mysterious in the garden.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001054">The engagement among us was faithfully kept,</span>
   <span id="f001055">and nobody revealed anything.</span>
   <span id="f001056">All we knew was,</span>
   <span id="f001057">if any one’s room were haunted,</span>
   <span id="f001058">no one looked the worse for it.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

