<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000001">To Madame la Comtesse de Feuillide<br /></span>
   <span id="f000002">this novel<br /></span>
   <span id="f000003">is inscribed by her<br /></span>
   <span id="f000004">obliged humble servant</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000005">The Author</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000006">“Deceived in Freindship [sic] and Betrayed in Love.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000007">Letter the FIRST From Isabel to Laura</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000008">How often,</span>
   <span id="f000009">in answer to my repeated intreaties that you would give my Daughter a regular detail of the Misfortunes and Adventures of your Life,</span>
   <span id="f000010">have you said “No,</span>
   <span id="f000011">my freind never will I comply with your request till I may be no longer in Danger of again experiencing such dreadful ones.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">Surely that time is now at hand.</span>
   <span id="f000013">You are this day 55.</span>
   <span id="f000014">If a woman may ever be said to be in safety from the determined Perseverance of disagreeable Lovers and the cruel Persecutions of obstinate Fathers,</span>
   <span id="f000015">surely it must be at such a time of Life.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Isabel</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000017">Letter 2nd Laura to Isabel</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000018">Altho’ I cannot agree with you in supposing that I shall never again be exposed to Misfortunes as unmerited as those I have already experienced,</span>
   <span id="f000019">yet to avoid the imputation of Obstinacy or ill-nature,</span>
   <span id="f000020">I will gratify the curiosity of your daughter;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and may the fortitude with which I have suffered the many afflictions of my past Life,</span>
   <span id="f000022">prove to her a useful lesson for the support of those which may befall her in her own.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Laura</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000024">Letter 3rd Laura to MARIANNE</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000025">As the Daughter of my most intimate freind I think you entitled to that knowledge of my unhappy story,</span>
   <span id="f000026">which your Mother has so often solicited me to give you.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">My Father was a native of Ireland and an inhabitant of Wales;</span>
   <span id="f000028">my Mother was the natural Daughter of a Scotch Peer by an italian Opera-girl – I was born in Spain and received my Education at a Convent in France.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">When I had reached my eighteenth Year I was recalled by my Parents to my paternal roof in Wales.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Our mansion was situated in one of the most romantic parts of the Vale of Uske.</span>
   <span id="f000031">Tho’ my Charms are now considerably softened and somewhat impaired by the Misfortunes I have undergone,</span>
   <span id="f000032">I was once beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000033">But lovely as I was the Graces of my Person were the least of my Perfections.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Of every accomplishment accustomary to my sex,</span>
   <span id="f000035">I was Mistress.</span>
   <span id="f000036">When in the Convent,</span>
   <span id="f000037">my progress had always exceeded my instructions,</span>
   <span id="f000038">my Acquirements had been wonderfull for my age,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and I had shortly surpassed my Masters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">In my Mind,</span>
   <span id="f000041">every Virtue that could adorn it was centered;</span>
   <span id="f000042">it was the Rendez-vous of every good Quality and of every noble sentiment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">A sensibility too tremblingly alive to every affliction of my Freinds,</span>
   <span id="f000044">my Acquaintance and particularly to every affliction of my own,</span>
   <span id="f000045">was my only fault,</span>
   <span id="f000046">if a fault it could be called.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000048">how altered now!</span>
   <span id="f000049">Tho’ indeed my own Misfortunes do not make less impression on me than they ever did,</span>
   <span id="f000050">yet now I never feel for those of an other.</span>
   <span id="f000051">My accomplishments too,</span>
   <span id="f000052">begin to fade – I can neither sing so well nor Dance so gracefully as I once did – and I have entirely forgot the MINUET DELA COUR.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Adeiu.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000055">Letter 4th Laura to MARIANNE</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000056">Our neighbourhood was small,</span>
   <span id="f000057">for it consisted only of your Mother.</span>
   <span id="f000058">She may probably have already told you that being left by her Parents in indigent Circumstances she had retired into Wales on eoconomical motives.</span>
   <span id="f000059">There it was our freindship first commenced.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Isobel was then one and twenty.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Tho’ pleasing both in her Person and Manners</span>
   <span id="f000062">(between ourselves)</span>
   <span id="f000063">she never possessed the hundredth part of my Beauty or Accomplishments.</span>
   <span id="f000064">Isabel had seen the World.</span>
   <span id="f000065">She had passed 2 Years at one of the first Boarding-schools in London;</span>
   <span id="f000066">had spent a fortnight in Bath and had supped one night in Southampton.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“Beware my Laura</span>
   <span id="f000068">(she would often say)</span>
   <span id="f000069">Beware of the insipid Vanities and idle Dissipations of the Metropolis of England;</span>
   <span id="f000070">Beware of the unmeaning Luxuries of Bath and of the stinking fish of Southampton.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000072">(exclaimed I)</span>
   <span id="f000073">how am I to avoid those evils I shall never be exposed to?</span>
   <span id="f000074">What probability is there of my ever tasting the Dissipations of London,</span>
   <span id="f000075">the Luxuries of Bath,</span>
   <span id="f000076">or the stinking Fish of Southampton?</span>
   <span id="f000077">I who am doomed to waste my Days of Youth and Beauty in an humble Cottage in the Vale of Uske.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000079">little did I then think I was ordained so soon to quit that humble Cottage for the Deceitfull Pleasures of the World.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000081">Letter 5th Laura to MARIANNE</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000082">One Evening in December as my Father,</span>
   <span id="f000083">my Mother and myself,</span>
   <span id="f000084">were arranged in social converse round our Fireside,</span>
   <span id="f000085">we were on a sudden greatly astonished,</span>
   <span id="f000086">by hearing a violent knocking on the outward door of our rustic Cot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">My Father started – “What noise is that,”</span>
   <span id="f000088">(said he.)</span>
   <span id="f000089">“It sounds like a loud rapping at the door” –</span>
   <span id="f000090">(replied my Mother.)</span>
   <span id="f000091">“it does indeed.”</span>
   <span id="f000092">(cried I.)</span>
   <span id="f000093">“I am of your opinion;</span>
   <span id="f000094">(said my Father)</span>
   <span id="f000095">it certainly does appear to proceed from some uncommon violence exerted against our unoffending door.” “Yes</span>
   <span id="f000096">(exclaimed I)</span>
   <span id="f000097">I cannot help thinking it must be somebody who knocks for admittance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“That is another point</span>
   <span id="f000099">(replied he;)</span>
   <span id="f000100">We must not pretend to determine on what motive the person may knock – tho’ that someone DOES rap at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000101">I am partly convinced.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000103">a 2d tremendous rap interrupted my Father in his speech,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and somewhat alarmed my Mother and me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“Had we better not go and see who it is?</span>
   <span id="f000106">(said she)</span>
   <span id="f000107">the servants are out.” “I think we had.”</span>
   <span id="f000108">(replied I.)</span>
   <span id="f000109">“Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000110">(added my Father)</span>
   <span id="f000111">by all means.” “Shall we go now?”</span>
   <span id="f000112">(said my Mother,)</span>
   <span id="f000113">“The sooner the better.”</span>
   <span id="f000114">(answered he.)</span>
   <span id="f000115">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000116">let no time be lost”</span>
   <span id="f000117">(cried I.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">A third more violent Rap than ever again assaulted our ears.</span>
   <span id="f000119">“I am certain there is somebody knocking at the Door.”</span>
   <span id="f000120">(said my Mother.)</span>
   <span id="f000121">“I think there must,”</span>
   <span id="f000122">(replied my Father)</span>
   <span id="f000123">“I fancy the servants are returned;</span>
   <span id="f000124">(said I)</span>
   <span id="f000125">I think I hear Mary going to the Door.” “I’m glad of it</span>
   <span id="f000126">(cried my Father)</span>
   <span id="f000127">for I long to know who it is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">I was right in my conjecture;</span>
   <span id="f000129">for Mary instantly entering the Room,</span>
   <span id="f000130">informed us that a young Gentleman and his Servant were at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000131">who had lossed their way,</span>
   <span id="f000132">were very cold and begged leave to warm themselves by our fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Won’t you admit them?”</span>
   <span id="f000134">(said I.)</span>
   <span id="f000135">“You have no objection,</span>
   <span id="f000136">my Dear?”</span>
   <span id="f000137">(said my Father.)</span>
   <span id="f000138">“None in the World.”</span>
   <span id="f000139">(replied my Mother.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000141">without waiting for any further commands immediately left the room and quickly returned introducing the most beauteous and amiable Youth,</span>
   <span id="f000142">I had ever beheld.</span>
   <span id="f000143">The servant she kept to herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">My natural sensibility had already been greatly affected by the sufferings of the unfortunate stranger and no sooner did I first behold him,</span>
   <span id="f000145">than I felt that on him the happiness or Misery of my future Life must depend.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000147">Letter 6th Laura to MARIANNE</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000148">The noble Youth informed us that his name was Lindsay – for particular reasons however I shall conceal it under that of Talbot.</span>
   <span id="f000149">He told us that he was the son of an English Baronet,</span>
   <span id="f000150">that his Mother had been for many years no more and that he had a Sister of the middle size.</span>
   <span id="f000151">“My Father</span>
   <span id="f000152">(he continued)</span>
   <span id="f000153">is a mean and mercenary wretch – it is only to such particular freinds as this Dear Party that I would thus betray his failings.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Your Virtues my amiable Polydore</span>
   <span id="f000155">(addressing himself to my father)</span>
   <span id="f000156">yours Dear Claudia and yours my Charming Laura call on me to repose in you,</span>
   <span id="f000157">my confidence.” We bowed.</span>
   <span id="f000158">“My Father seduced by the false glare of Fortune and the Deluding Pomp of Title,</span>
   <span id="f000159">insisted on my giving my hand to Lady Dorothea.</span>
   <span id="f000160">No never exclaimed I.</span>
   <span id="f000161">Lady Dorothea is lovely and Engaging;</span>
   <span id="f000162">I prefer no woman to her;</span>
   <span id="f000163">but know Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000164">that I scorn to marry her in compliance with your Wishes.</span>
   <span id="f000165">No!</span>
   <span id="f000166">Never shall it be said that I obliged my Father.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">We all admired the noble Manliness of his reply.</span>
   <span id="f000168">He continued.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“Sir Edward was surprised;</span>
   <span id="f000170">he had perhaps little expected to meet with so spirited an opposition to his will.</span>
   <span id="f000171">”Where,</span>
   <span id="f000172">Edward in the name of wonder</span>
   <span id="f000173">(said he)</span>
   <span id="f000174">did you pick up this unmeaning gibberish?</span>
   <span id="f000175">You have been studying Novels I suspect.“ I scorned to answer:</span>
   <span id="f000176">it would have been beneath my dignity.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I mounted my Horse and followed by my faithful William set forth for my Aunts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“My Father’s house is situated in Bedfordshire,</span>
   <span id="f000179">my Aunt’s in Middlesex,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and tho’ I flatter myself with being a tolerable proficient in Geography,</span>
   <span id="f000181">I know not how it happened,</span>
   <span id="f000182">but I found myself entering this beautifull Vale which I find is in South Wales,</span>
   <span id="f000183">when I had expected to have reached my Aunts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“After having wandered some time on the Banks of the Uske without knowing which way to go,</span>
   <span id="f000185">I began to lament my cruel Destiny in the bitterest and most pathetic Manner.</span>
   <span id="f000186">It was now perfectly dark,</span>
   <span id="f000187">not a single star was there to direct my steps,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and I know not what might have befallen me had I not at length discerned thro’ the solemn Gloom that surrounded me a distant light,</span>
   <span id="f000189">which as I approached it,</span>
   <span id="f000190">I discovered to be the chearfull Blaze of your fire.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Impelled by the combination of Misfortunes under which I laboured,</span>
   <span id="f000192">namely Fear,</span>
   <span id="f000193">Cold and Hunger I hesitated not to ask admittance which at length I have gained;</span>
   <span id="f000194">and now my Adorable Laura</span>
   <span id="f000195">(continued he taking my Hand)</span>
   <span id="f000196">when may I hope to receive that reward of all the painfull sufferings I have undergone during the course of my attachment to you,</span>
   <span id="f000197">to which I have ever aspired.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000199">when will you reward me with Yourself?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“This instant,</span>
   <span id="f000201">Dear and Amiable Edward.”</span>
   <span id="f000202">(replied I.).</span>
   <span id="f000203">We were immediately united by my Father,</span>
   <span id="f000204">who tho’ he had never taken orders had been bred to the Church.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Adeiu Laura</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000206">Letter 7th Laura to MARIANNE</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000207">We remained but a few days after our Marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000208">in the Vale of Uske.</span>
   <span id="f000209">After taking an affecting Farewell of my Father,</span>
   <span id="f000210">my Mother and my Isabel,</span>
   <span id="f000211">I accompanied Edward to his Aunt’s in Middlesex.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Philippa received us both with every expression of affectionate Love.</span>
   <span id="f000213">My arrival was indeed a most agreable surprise to her as she had not only been totally ignorant of my Marriage with her Nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000214">but had never even had the slightest idea of there being such a person in the World.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">Augusta,</span>
   <span id="f000216">the sister of Edward was on a visit to her when we arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000217">I found her exactly what her Brother had described her to be – of the middle size.</span>
   <span id="f000218">She received me with equal surprise though not with equal Cordiality,</span>
   <span id="f000219">as Philippa.</span>
   <span id="f000220">There was a disagreable coldness and Forbidding Reserve in her reception of me which was equally distressing and Unexpected.</span>
   <span id="f000221">None of that interesting Sensibility or amiable simpathy in her manners and Address to me when we first met which should have distinguished our introduction to each other.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Her Language was neither warm,</span>
   <span id="f000223">nor affectionate,</span>
   <span id="f000224">her expressions of regard were neither animated nor cordial;</span>
   <span id="f000225">her arms were not opened to receive me to her Heart,</span>
   <span id="f000226">tho’ my own were extended to press her to mine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">A short Conversation between Augusta and her Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000228">which I accidentally overheard encreased my dislike to her,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and convinced me that her Heart was no more formed for the soft ties of Love than for the endearing intercourse of Freindship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">“But do you think that my Father will ever be reconciled to this imprudent connection?”</span>
   <span id="f000231">(said Augusta.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“Augusta</span>
   <span id="f000233">(replied the noble Youth)</span>
   <span id="f000234">I thought you had a better opinion of me,</span>
   <span id="f000235">than to imagine I would so abjectly degrade myself as to consider my Father’s Concurrence in any of my affairs,</span>
   <span id="f000236">either of Consequence or concern to me.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Tell me Augusta with sincerity;</span>
   <span id="f000238">did you ever know me consult his inclinations or follow his Advice in the least trifling Particular since the age of fifteen?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“Edward</span>
   <span id="f000240">(replied she)</span>
   <span id="f000241">you are surely too diffident in your own praise.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Since you were fifteen only!</span>
   <span id="f000243">My Dear Brother since you were five years old,</span>
   <span id="f000244">I entirely acquit you of ever having willingly contributed to the satisfaction of your Father.</span>
   <span id="f000245">But still I am not without apprehensions of your being shortly obliged to degrade yourself in your own eyes by seeking a support for your wife in the Generosity of Sir Edward.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“Never,</span>
   <span id="f000247">never Augusta will I so demean myself.</span>
   <span id="f000248">(said Edward).</span>
   <span id="f000249">Support!</span>
   <span id="f000250">What support will Laura want which she can receive from him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“Only those very insignificant ones of Victuals and Drink.”</span>
   <span id="f000252">(answered she.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“Victuals and Drink!</span>
   <span id="f000254">(replied my Husband in a most nobly contemptuous Manner)</span>
   <span id="f000255">and dost thou then imagine that there is no other support for an exalted mind</span>
   <span id="f000256">(such as is my Laura’s)</span>
   <span id="f000257">than the mean and indelicate employment of Eating and Drinking?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“None that I know of,</span>
   <span id="f000259">so efficacious.”</span>
   <span id="f000260">(returned Augusta).</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“And did you then never feel the pleasing Pangs of Love,</span>
   <span id="f000262">Augusta?</span>
   <span id="f000263">(replied my Edward).</span>
   <span id="f000264">Does it appear impossible to your vile and corrupted Palate,</span>
   <span id="f000265">to exist on Love?</span>
   <span id="f000266">Can you not conceive the Luxury of living in every distress that Poverty can inflict,</span>
   <span id="f000267">with the object of your tenderest affection?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“You are too ridiculous</span>
   <span id="f000269">(said Augusta)</span>
   <span id="f000270">to argue with;</span>
   <span id="f000271">perhaps however you may in time be convinced that…</span>
   <span id="f000272">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">Here I was prevented from hearing the remainder of her speech,</span>
   <span id="f000274">by the appearance of a very Handsome young Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000275">who was ushured into the Room at the Door of which I had been listening.</span>
   <span id="f000276">On hearing her announced by the Name of “Lady Dorothea,” I instantly quitted my Post and followed her into the Parlour,</span>
   <span id="f000277">for I well remembered that she was the Lady,</span>
   <span id="f000278">proposed as a Wife for my Edward by the Cruel and Unrelenting Baronet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">Altho’ Lady Dorothea’s visit was nominally to Philippa and Augusta,</span>
   <span id="f000280">yet I have some reason to imagine that</span>
   <span id="f000281">(acquainted with the Marriage and arrival of Edward)</span>
   <span id="f000282">to see me was a principal motive to it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">I soon perceived that tho’ Lovely and Elegant in her Person and tho’ Easy and Polite in her Address,</span>
   <span id="f000284">she was of that inferior order of Beings with regard to Delicate Feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000285">tender Sentiments,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and refined Sensibility,</span>
   <span id="f000287">of which Augusta was one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">She staid but half an hour and neither in the Course of her Visit,</span>
   <span id="f000289">confided to me any of her secret thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000290">nor requested me to confide in her,</span>
   <span id="f000291">any of Mine.</span>
   <span id="f000292">You will easily imagine therefore my Dear Marianne that I could not feel any ardent affection or very sincere Attachment for Lady Dorothea.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000294">Letter 8th Laura to MARIANNE, in continuation</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000295">Lady Dorothea had not left us long before another visitor as unexpected a one as her Ladyship,</span>
   <span id="f000296">was announced.</span>
   <span id="f000297">It was Sir Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000298">who informed by Augusta of her Brother’s marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000299">came doubtless to reproach him for having dared to unite himself to me without his Knowledge.</span>
   <span id="f000300">But Edward foreseeing his design,</span>
   <span id="f000301">approached him with heroic fortitude as soon as he entered the Room,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and addressed him in the following Manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“Sir Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000304">I know the motive of your Journey here – You come with the base Design of reproaching me for having entered into an indissoluble engagement with my Laura without your Consent.</span>
   <span id="f000305">But Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000306">I glory in the Act – .</span>
   <span id="f000307">It is my greatest boast that I have incurred the displeasure of my Father!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">So saying,</span>
   <span id="f000309">he took my hand and whilst Sir Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000310">Philippa,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and Augusta were doubtless reflecting with admiration on his undaunted Bravery,</span>
   <span id="f000312">led me from the Parlour to his Father’s Carriage which yet remained at the Door and in which we were instantly conveyed from the pursuit of Sir Edward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">The Postilions had at first received orders only to take the London road;</span>
   <span id="f000314">as soon as we had sufficiently reflected However,</span>
   <span id="f000315">we ordered them to Drive to M – .</span>
   <span id="f000316">the seat of Edward’s most particular freind,</span>
   <span id="f000317">which was but a few miles distant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">At M – .</span>
   <span id="f000319">we arrived in a few hours;</span>
   <span id="f000320">and on sending in our names were immediately admitted to Sophia,</span>
   <span id="f000321">the Wife of Edward’s freind.</span>
   <span id="f000322">After having been deprived during the course of 3 weeks of a real freind</span>
   <span id="f000323">(for such I term your Mother)</span>
   <span id="f000324">imagine my transports at beholding one,</span>
   <span id="f000325">most truly worthy of the Name.</span>
   <span id="f000326">Sophia was rather above the middle size;</span>
   <span id="f000327">most elegantly formed.</span>
   <span id="f000328">A soft languor spread over her lovely features,</span>
   <span id="f000329">but increased their Beauty – .</span>
   <span id="f000330">It was the Charectarestic of her Mind – .</span>
   <span id="f000331">She was all sensibility and Feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000332">We flew into each others arms and after having exchanged vows of mutual Freindship for the rest of our Lives,</span>
   <span id="f000333">instantly unfolded to each other the most inward secrets of our Hearts – .</span>
   <span id="f000334">We were interrupted in the delightfull Employment by the entrance of Augustus,</span>
   <span id="f000335">(Edward’s freind)</span>
   <span id="f000336">who was just returned from a solitary ramble.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">Never did I see such an affecting Scene as was the meeting of Edward and Augustus.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">“My Life!</span>
   <span id="f000339">my Soul!”</span>
   <span id="f000340">(exclaimed the former)</span>
   <span id="f000341">“My adorable angel!”</span>
   <span id="f000342">(replied the latter)</span>
   <span id="f000343">as they flew into each other’s arms.</span>
   <span id="f000344">It was too pathetic for the feelings of Sophia and myself – We fainted alternately on a sofa.</span>
   <span id="f000345">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000346">Letter the 9th From the same to the same</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000347">Towards the close of the day we received the following Letter from Philippa.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“Sir Edward is greatly incensed by your abrupt departure;</span>
   <span id="f000349">he has taken back Augusta to Bedfordshire.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Much as I wish to enjoy again your charming society,</span>
   <span id="f000351">I cannot determine to snatch you from that,</span>
   <span id="f000352">of such dear and deserving Freinds – When your Visit to them is terminated,</span>
   <span id="f000353">I trust you will return to the arms of your” “Philippa.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">We returned a suitable answer to this affectionate Note and after thanking her for her kind invitation assured her that we would certainly avail ourselves of it,</span>
   <span id="f000355">whenever we might have no other place to go to.</span>
   <span id="f000356">Tho’ certainly nothing could to any reasonable Being,</span>
   <span id="f000357">have appeared more satisfactory,</span>
   <span id="f000358">than so gratefull a reply to her invitation,</span>
   <span id="f000359">yet I know not how it was,</span>
   <span id="f000360">but she was certainly capricious enough to be displeased with our behaviour and in a few weeks after,</span>
   <span id="f000361">either to revenge our Conduct,</span>
   <span id="f000362">or releive her own solitude,</span>
   <span id="f000363">married a young and illiterate Fortune-hunter.</span>
   <span id="f000364">This imprudent step</span>
   <span id="f000365">(tho’ we were sensible that it would probably deprive us of that fortune which Philippa had ever taught us to expect)</span>
   <span id="f000366">could not on our own accounts,</span>
   <span id="f000367">excite from our exalted minds a single sigh;</span>
   <span id="f000368">yet fearfull lest it might prove a source of endless misery to the deluded Bride,</span>
   <span id="f000369">our trembling Sensibility was greatly affected when we were first informed of the Event.</span>
   <span id="f000370">The affectionate Entreaties of Augustus and Sophia that we would for ever consider their House as our Home,</span>
   <span id="f000371">easily prevailed on us to determine never more to leave them,</span>
   <span id="f000372">In the society of my Edward and this Amiable Pair,</span>
   <span id="f000373">I passed the happiest moments of my Life;</span>
   <span id="f000374">Our time was most delightfully spent,</span>
   <span id="f000375">in mutual Protestations of Freindship,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and in vows of unalterable Love,</span>
   <span id="f000377">in which we were secure from being interrupted,</span>
   <span id="f000378">by intruding and disagreable Visitors,</span>
   <span id="f000379">as Augustus and Sophia had on their first Entrance in the Neighbourhood,</span>
   <span id="f000380">taken due care to inform the surrounding Families,</span>
   <span id="f000381">that as their happiness centered wholly in themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000382">they wished for no other society.</span>
   <span id="f000383">But alas!</span>
   <span id="f000384">my Dear Marianne such Happiness as I then enjoyed was too perfect to be lasting.</span>
   <span id="f000385">A most severe and unexpected Blow at once destroyed every sensation of Pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000386">Convinced as you must be from what I have already told you concerning Augustus and Sophia,</span>
   <span id="f000387">that there never were a happier Couple,</span>
   <span id="f000388">I need not I imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000389">inform you that their union had been contrary to the inclinations of their Cruel and Mercenery Parents;</span>
   <span id="f000390">who had vainly endeavoured with obstinate Perseverance to force them into a Marriage with those whom they had ever abhorred;</span>
   <span id="f000391">but with a Heroic Fortitude worthy to be related and admired,</span>
   <span id="f000392">they had both,</span>
   <span id="f000393">constantly refused to submit to such despotic Power.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">After having so nobly disentangled themselves from the shackles of Parental Authority,</span>
   <span id="f000395">by a Clandestine Marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000396">they were determined never to forfeit the good opinion they had gained in the World,</span>
   <span id="f000397">in so doing,</span>
   <span id="f000398">by accepting any proposals of reconciliation that might be offered them by their Fathers – to this farther tryal of their noble independance however they never were exposed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">They had been married but a few months when our visit to them commenced during which time they had been amply supported by a considerable sum of money which Augustus had gracefully purloined from his unworthy father’s Escritoire,</span>
   <span id="f000400">a few days before his union with Sophia.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">By our arrival their Expenses were considerably encreased tho’ their means for supplying them were then nearly exhausted.</span>
   <span id="f000402">But they,</span>
   <span id="f000403">Exalted Creatures!</span>
   <span id="f000404">scorned to reflect a moment on their pecuniary Distresses and would have blushed at the idea of paying their Debts.</span>
   <span id="f000405">– Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000406">what was their Reward for such disinterested Behaviour!</span>
   <span id="f000407">The beautifull Augustus was arrested and we were all undone.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Such perfidious Treachery in the merciless perpetrators of the Deed will shock your gentle nature Dearest Marianne as much as it then affected the Delicate sensibility of Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000409">Sophia,</span>
   <span id="f000410">your Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and of Augustus himself.</span>
   <span id="f000412">To compleat such unparalelled Barbarity we were informed that an Execution in the House would shortly take place.</span>
   <span id="f000413">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000414">what could we do but what we did!</span>
   <span id="f000415">We sighed and fainted on the sofa.</span>
   <span id="f000416">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000417">Letter 10th Laura in continuation</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000418">When we were somewhat recovered from the overpowering Effusions of our grief,</span>
   <span id="f000419">Edward desired that we would consider what was the most prudent step to be taken in our unhappy situation while he repaired to his imprisoned freind to lament over his misfortunes.</span>
   <span id="f000420">We promised that we would,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and he set forwards on his journey to Town.</span>
   <span id="f000422">During his absence we faithfully complied with his Desire and after the most mature Deliberation,</span>
   <span id="f000423">at length agreed that the best thing we could do was to leave the House;</span>
   <span id="f000424">of which we every moment expected the officers of Justice to take possession.</span>
   <span id="f000425">We waited therefore with the greatest impatience,</span>
   <span id="f000426">for the return of Edward in order to impart to him the result of our Deliberations.</span>
   <span id="f000427">But no Edward appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000428">In vain did we count the tedious moments of his absence – in vain did we weep – in vain even did we sigh – no Edward returned – .</span>
   <span id="f000429">This was too cruel,</span>
   <span id="f000430">too unexpected a Blow to our Gentle Sensibility – we could not support it – we could only faint.</span>
   <span id="f000431">At length collecting all the Resolution I was Mistress of,</span>
   <span id="f000432">I arose and after packing up some necessary apparel for Sophia and myself,</span>
   <span id="f000433">I dragged her to a Carriage I had ordered and we instantly set out for London.</span>
   <span id="f000434">As the Habitation of Augustus was within twelve miles of Town,</span>
   <span id="f000435">it was not long e’er we arrived there,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and no sooner had we entered Holboun than letting down one of the Front Glasses I enquired of every decent-looking Person that we passed “If they had seen my Edward?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">But as we drove too rapidly to allow them to answer my repeated Enquiries,</span>
   <span id="f000438">I gained little,</span>
   <span id="f000439">or indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000440">no information concerning him.</span>
   <span id="f000441">“Where am I to drive?” said the Postilion.</span>
   <span id="f000442">“To Newgate Gentle Youth</span>
   <span id="f000443">(replied I),</span>
   <span id="f000444">to see Augustus.” “Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000445">no,</span>
   <span id="f000446">no,</span>
   <span id="f000447">(exclaimed Sophia)</span>
   <span id="f000448">I cannot go to Newgate;</span>
   <span id="f000449">I shall not be able to support the sight of my Augustus in so cruel a confinement – my feelings are sufficiently shocked by the RECITAL,</span>
   <span id="f000450">of his Distress,</span>
   <span id="f000451">but to behold it will overpower my Sensibility.” As I perfectly agreed with her in the Justice of her Sentiments the Postilion was instantly directed to return into the Country.</span>
   <span id="f000452">You may perhaps have been somewhat surprised my Dearest Marianne,</span>
   <span id="f000453">that in the Distress I then endured,</span>
   <span id="f000454">destitute of any support,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and unprovided with any Habitation,</span>
   <span id="f000456">I should never once have remembered my Father and Mother or my paternal Cottage in the Vale of Uske.</span>
   <span id="f000457">To account for this seeming forgetfullness I must inform you of a trifling circumstance concerning them which I have as yet never mentioned.</span>
   <span id="f000458">The death of my Parents a few weeks after my Departure,</span>
   <span id="f000459">is the circumstance I allude to.</span>
   <span id="f000460">By their decease I became the lawfull Inheritress of their House and Fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000461">But alas!</span>
   <span id="f000462">the House had never been their own and their Fortune had only been an Annuity on their own Lives.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Such is the Depravity of the World!</span>
   <span id="f000464">To your Mother I should have returned with Pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f000465">should have been happy to have introduced to her,</span>
   <span id="f000466">my charming Sophia and should with Chearfullness have passed the remainder of my Life in their dear Society in the Vale of Uske,</span>
   <span id="f000467">had not one obstacle to the execution of so agreable a scheme,</span>
   <span id="f000468">intervened;</span>
   <span id="f000469">which was the Marriage and Removal of your Mother to a distant part of Ireland.</span>
   <span id="f000470">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

