<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part II</span></h2>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Letter 11th Laura in continuation</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">“I have a Relation in Scotland</span>
   <span id="f000004">(said Sophia to me as we left London)</span>
   <span id="f000005">who I am certain would not hesitate in receiving me.” “Shall I order the Boy to drive there?” said I – but instantly recollecting myself,</span>
   <span id="f000006">exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000007">“Alas I fear it will be too long a Journey for the Horses.” Unwilling however to act only from my own inadequate Knowledge of the Strength and Abilities of Horses,</span>
   <span id="f000008">I consulted the Postilion,</span>
   <span id="f000009">who was entirely of my Opinion concerning the Affair.</span>
   <span id="f000010">We therefore determined to change Horses at the next Town and to travel Post the remainder of the Journey – .</span>
   <span id="f000011">When we arrived at the last Inn we were to stop at,</span>
   <span id="f000012">which was but a few miles from the House of Sophia’s Relation,</span>
   <span id="f000013">unwilling to intrude our Society on him unexpected and unthought of,</span>
   <span id="f000014">we wrote a very elegant and well penned Note to him containing an account of our Destitute and melancholy Situation,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and of our intention to spend some months with him in Scotland.</span>
   <span id="f000016">As soon as we had dispatched this Letter,</span>
   <span id="f000017">we immediately prepared to follow it in person and were stepping into the Carriage for that Purpose when our attention was attracted by the Entrance of a coroneted Coach and 4 into the Inn-yard.</span>
   <span id="f000018">A Gentleman considerably advanced in years descended from it.</span>
   <span id="f000019">At his first Appearance my Sensibility was wonderfully affected and e’er I had gazed at him a 2d time,</span>
   <span id="f000020">an instinctive sympathy whispered to my Heart,</span>
   <span id="f000021">that he was my Grandfather.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Convinced that I could not be mistaken in my conjecture I instantly sprang from the Carriage I had just entered,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and following the Venerable Stranger into the Room he had been shewn to,</span>
   <span id="f000024">I threw myself on my knees before him and besought him to acknowledge me as his Grand Child.</span>
   <span id="f000025">He started,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and having attentively examined my features,</span>
   <span id="f000027">raised me from the Ground and throwing his Grand-fatherly arms around my Neck,</span>
   <span id="f000028">exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000029">“Acknowledge thee!</span>
   <span id="f000030">Yes dear resemblance of my Laurina and Laurina’s Daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000031">sweet image of my Claudia and my Claudia’s Mother,</span>
   <span id="f000032">I do acknowledge thee as the Daughter of the one and the Grandaughter of the other.” While he was thus tenderly embracing me,</span>
   <span id="f000033">Sophia astonished at my precipitate Departure,</span>
   <span id="f000034">entered the Room in search of me.</span>
   <span id="f000035">No sooner had she caught the eye of the venerable Peer,</span>
   <span id="f000036">than he exclaimed with every mark of Astonishment – “Another Grandaughter!</span>
   <span id="f000037">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000038">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000039">I see you are the Daughter of my Laurina’s eldest Girl;</span>
   <span id="f000040">your resemblance to the beauteous Matilda sufficiently proclaims it.</span>
   <span id="f000041">”Oh!“ replied Sophia,</span>
   <span id="f000042">”when I first beheld you the instinct of Nature whispered me that we were in some degree related – But whether Grandfathers,</span>
   <span id="f000043">or Grandmothers,</span>
   <span id="f000044">I could not pretend to determine.“ He folded her in his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and whilst they were tenderly embracing,</span>
   <span id="f000046">the Door of the Apartment opened and a most beautifull young Man appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000047">On perceiving him Lord St.&#160;Clair started and retreating back a few paces,</span>
   <span id="f000048">with uplifted Hands,</span>
   <span id="f000049">said,</span>
   <span id="f000050">”Another Grand-child!</span>
   <span id="f000051">What an unexpected Happiness is this!</span>
   <span id="f000052">to discover in the space of 3 minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000053">as many of my Descendants!</span>
   <span id="f000054">This I am certain is Philander the son of my Laurina’s 3d girl the amiable Bertha;</span>
   <span id="f000055">there wants now but the presence of Gustavus to compleat the Union of my Laurina’s Grand-Children."</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">“And here he is;</span>
   <span id="f000057">(said a Gracefull Youth who that instant entered the room)</span>
   <span id="f000058">here is the Gustavus you desire to see.</span>
   <span id="f000059">I am the son of Agatha your Laurina’s 4th and youngest Daughter,” “I see you are indeed;</span>
   <span id="f000060">replied Lord St.&#160;Clair – But tell me</span>
   <span id="f000061">(continued he looking fearfully towards the Door)</span>
   <span id="f000062">tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000063">have I any other Grand-children in the House.” “None my Lord.” “Then I will provide for you all without farther delay – Here are 4 Banknotes of 50L each – Take them and remember I have done the Duty of a Grandfather.” He instantly left the Room and immediately afterwards the House.</span>
   <span id="f000064">Adeiu,</span>
   <span id="f000065">Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000066">Letter the 12th Laura in continuation</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000067">You may imagine how greatly we were surprised by the sudden departure of Lord St Clair.</span>
   <span id="f000068">“Ignoble Grand-sire!” exclaimed Sophia.</span>
   <span id="f000069">“Unworthy Grandfather!” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and instantly fainted in each other’s arms.</span>
   <span id="f000071">How long we remained in this situation I know not;</span>
   <span id="f000072">but when we recovered we found ourselves alone,</span>
   <span id="f000073">without either Gustavus,</span>
   <span id="f000074">Philander,</span>
   <span id="f000075">or the Banknotes.</span>
   <span id="f000076">As we were deploring our unhappy fate,</span>
   <span id="f000077">the Door of the Apartment opened and “Macdonald” was announced.</span>
   <span id="f000078">He was Sophia’s cousin.</span>
   <span id="f000079">The haste with which he came to our releif so soon after the receipt of our Note,</span>
   <span id="f000080">spoke so greatly in his favour that I hesitated not to pronounce him at first sight,</span>
   <span id="f000081">a tender and simpathetic Freind.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000083">he little deserved the name – for though he told us that he was much concerned at our Misfortunes,</span>
   <span id="f000084">yet by his own account it appeared that the perusal of them,</span>
   <span id="f000085">had neither drawn from him a single sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000086">nor induced him to bestow one curse on our vindictive stars – .</span>
   <span id="f000087">He told Sophia that his Daughter depended on her returning with him to Macdonald-Hall,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and that as his Cousin’s freind he should be happy to see me there also.</span>
   <span id="f000089">To Macdonald-Hall,</span>
   <span id="f000090">therefore we went,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and were received with great kindness by Janetta the Daughter of Macdonald,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and the Mistress of the Mansion.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Janetta was then only fifteen;</span>
   <span id="f000094">naturally well disposed,</span>
   <span id="f000095">endowed with a susceptible Heart,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and a simpathetic Disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000097">she might,</span>
   <span id="f000098">had these amiable qualities been properly encouraged,</span>
   <span id="f000099">have been an ornament to human Nature;</span>
   <span id="f000100">but unfortunately her Father possessed not a soul sufficiently exalted to admire so promising a Disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and had endeavoured by every means on his power to prevent it encreasing with her Years.</span>
   <span id="f000102">He had actually so far extinguished the natural noble Sensibility of her Heart,</span>
   <span id="f000103">as to prevail on her to accept an offer from a young Man of his Recommendation.</span>
   <span id="f000104">They were to be married in a few months,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and Graham,</span>
   <span id="f000106">was in the House when we arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000107">WE soon saw through his character.</span>
   <span id="f000108">He was just such a Man as one might have expected to be the choice of Macdonald.</span>
   <span id="f000109">They said he was Sensible,</span>
   <span id="f000110">well-informed,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and Agreable;</span>
   <span id="f000112">we did not pretend to Judge of such trifles,</span>
   <span id="f000113">but as we were convinced he had no soul,</span>
   <span id="f000114">that he had never read the sorrows of Werter,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and that his Hair bore not the least resemblance to auburn,</span>
   <span id="f000116">we were certain that Janetta could feel no affection for him,</span>
   <span id="f000117">or at least that she ought to feel none.</span>
   <span id="f000118">The very circumstance of his being her father’s choice too,</span>
   <span id="f000119">was so much in his disfavour,</span>
   <span id="f000120">that had he been deserving her,</span>
   <span id="f000121">in every other respect yet THAT of itself ought to have been a sufficient reason in the Eyes of Janetta for rejecting him.</span>
   <span id="f000122">These considerations we were determined to represent to her in their proper light and doubted not of meeting with the desired success from one naturally so well disposed;</span>
   <span id="f000123">whose errors in the affair had only arisen from a want of proper confidence in her own opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and a suitable contempt of her father’s.</span>
   <span id="f000125">We found her indeed all that our warmest wishes could have hoped for;</span>
   <span id="f000126">we had no difficulty to convince her that it was impossible she could love Graham,</span>
   <span id="f000127">or that it was her Duty to disobey her Father;</span>
   <span id="f000128">the only thing at which she rather seemed to hesitate was our assertion that she must be attached to some other Person.</span>
   <span id="f000129">For some time,</span>
   <span id="f000130">she persevered in declaring that she knew no other young man for whom she had the the smallest Affection;</span>
   <span id="f000131">but upon explaining the impossibility of such a thing she said that she beleived she DID LIKE Captain M’Kenrie better than any one she knew besides.</span>
   <span id="f000132">This confession satisfied us and after having enumerated the good Qualities of M’Kenrie and assured her that she was violently in love with him,</span>
   <span id="f000133">we desired to know whether he had ever in any wise declared his affection to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">“So far from having ever declared it,</span>
   <span id="f000135">I have no reason to imagine that he has ever felt any for me.” said Janetta.</span>
   <span id="f000136">“That he certainly adores you</span>
   <span id="f000137">(replied Sophia)</span>
   <span id="f000138">there can be no doubt – .</span>
   <span id="f000139">The Attachment must be reciprocal.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Did he never gaze on you with admiration – tenderly press your hand – drop an involantary tear – and leave the room abruptly?” “Never</span>
   <span id="f000141">(replied she)</span>
   <span id="f000142">that I remember – he has always left the room indeed when his visit has been ended,</span>
   <span id="f000143">but has never gone away particularly abruptly or without making a bow.” Indeed my Love</span>
   <span id="f000144">(said I)</span>
   <span id="f000145">you must be mistaken – for it is absolutely impossible that he should ever have left you but with Confusion,</span>
   <span id="f000146">Despair,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and Precipitation.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Consider but for a moment Janetta,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and you must be convinced how absurd it is to suppose that he could ever make a Bow,</span>
   <span id="f000150">or behave like any other Person." Having settled this Point to our satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000151">the next we took into consideration was,</span>
   <span id="f000152">to determine in what manner we should inform M’Kenrie of the favourable Opinion Janetta entertained of him…</span>
   <span id="f000153">We at length agreed to acquaint him with it by an anonymous Letter which Sophia drew up in the following manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000155">happy Lover of the beautifull Janetta,</span>
   <span id="f000156">oh!</span>
   <span id="f000157">amiable Possessor of HER Heart whose hand is destined to another,</span>
   <span id="f000158">why do you thus delay a confession of your attachment to the amiable Object of it?</span>
   <span id="f000159">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000160">consider that a few weeks will at once put an end to every flattering Hope that you may now entertain,</span>
   <span id="f000161">by uniting the unfortunate Victim of her father’s Cruelty to the execrable and detested Graham.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000163">why do you thus so cruelly connive at the projected Misery of her and of yourself by delaying to communicate that scheme which had doubtless long possessed your imagination?</span>
   <span id="f000164">A secret Union will at once secure the felicity of both.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">The amiable M’Kenrie,</span>
   <span id="f000166">whose modesty as he afterwards assured us had been the only reason of his having so long concealed the violence of his affection for Janetta,</span>
   <span id="f000167">on receiving this Billet flew on the wings of Love to Macdonald-Hall,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and so powerfully pleaded his Attachment to her who inspired it,</span>
   <span id="f000169">that after a few more private interveiws,</span>
   <span id="f000170">Sophia and I experienced the satisfaction of seeing them depart for Gretna-Green,</span>
   <span id="f000171">which they chose for the celebration of their Nuptials,</span>
   <span id="f000172">in preference to any other place although it was at a considerable distance from Macdonald-Hall.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000174">Letter the 13th Laura in continuation</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000175">They had been gone nearly a couple of Hours,</span>
   <span id="f000176">before either Macdonald or Graham had entertained any suspicion of the affair.</span>
   <span id="f000177">And they might not even then have suspected it,</span>
   <span id="f000178">but for the following little Accident.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Sophia happening one day to open a private Drawer in Macdonald’s Library with one of her own keys,</span>
   <span id="f000180">discovered that it was the Place where he kept his Papers of consequence and amongst them some bank notes of considerable amount.</span>
   <span id="f000181">This discovery she imparted to me;</span>
   <span id="f000182">and having agreed together that it would be a proper treatment of so vile a Wretch as Macdonald to deprive him of money,</span>
   <span id="f000183">perhaps dishonestly gained,</span>
   <span id="f000184">it was determined that the next time we should either of us happen to go that way,</span>
   <span id="f000185">we would take one or more of the Bank notes from the drawer.</span>
   <span id="f000186">This well meant Plan we had often successfully put in Execution;</span>
   <span id="f000187">but alas!</span>
   <span id="f000188">on the very day of Janetta’s Escape,</span>
   <span id="f000189">as Sophia was majestically removing the 5th Bank-note from the Drawer to her own purse,</span>
   <span id="f000190">she was suddenly most impertinently interrupted in her employment by the entrance of Macdonald himself,</span>
   <span id="f000191">in a most abrupt and precipitate Manner.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Sophia</span>
   <span id="f000193">(who though naturally all winning sweetness could when occasions demanded it call forth the Dignity of her sex)</span>
   <span id="f000194">instantly put on a most forbidding look,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and darting an angry frown on the undaunted culprit,</span>
   <span id="f000196">demanded in a haughty tone of voice “Wherefore her retirement was thus insolently broken in on?” The unblushing Macdonald,</span>
   <span id="f000197">without even endeavouring to exculpate himself from the crime he was charged with,</span>
   <span id="f000198">meanly endeavoured to reproach Sophia with ignobly defrauding him of his money…</span>
   <span id="f000199">The dignity of Sophia was wounded;</span>
   <span id="f000200">“Wretch</span>
   <span id="f000201">(exclaimed she,</span>
   <span id="f000202">hastily replacing the Bank-note in the Drawer)</span>
   <span id="f000203">how darest thou to accuse me of an Act,</span>
   <span id="f000204">of which the bare idea makes me blush?” The base wretch was still unconvinced and continued to upbraid the justly-offended Sophia in such opprobious Language,</span>
   <span id="f000205">that at length he so greatly provoked the gentle sweetness of her Nature,</span>
   <span id="f000206">as to induce her to revenge herself on him by informing him of Janetta’s Elopement,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and of the active Part we had both taken in the affair.</span>
   <span id="f000208">At this period of their Quarrel I entered the Library and was as you may imagine equally offended as Sophia at the ill-grounded accusations of the malevolent and contemptible Macdonald.</span>
   <span id="f000209">“Base Miscreant!</span>
   <span id="f000210">(cried I)</span>
   <span id="f000211">how canst thou thus undauntedly endeavour to sully the spotless reputation of such bright Excellence?</span>
   <span id="f000212">Why dost thou not suspect MY innocence as soon?” “Be satisfied Madam</span>
   <span id="f000213">(replied he)</span>
   <span id="f000214">I DO suspect it,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and therefore must desire that you will both leave this House in less than half an hour.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“We shall go willingly;</span>
   <span id="f000217">(answered Sophia)</span>
   <span id="f000218">our hearts have long detested thee,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and nothing but our freindship for thy Daughter could have induced us to remain so long beneath thy roof.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">“Your Freindship for my Daughter has indeed been most powerfully exerted by throwing her into the arms of an unprincipled Fortune-hunter.”</span>
   <span id="f000221">(replied he)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000223">(exclaimed I)</span>
   <span id="f000224">amidst every misfortune,</span>
   <span id="f000225">it will afford us some consolation to reflect that by this one act of Freindship to Janetta,</span>
   <span id="f000226">we have amply discharged every obligation that we have received from her father.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“It must indeed be a most gratefull reflection,</span>
   <span id="f000228">to your exalted minds.”</span>
   <span id="f000229">(said he.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">As soon as we had packed up our wardrobe and valuables,</span>
   <span id="f000231">we left Macdonald Hall,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and after having walked about a mile and a half we sate down by the side of a clear limpid stream to refresh our exhausted limbs.</span>
   <span id="f000233">The place was suited to meditation.</span>
   <span id="f000234">A grove of full-grown Elms sheltered us from the East – .</span>
   <span id="f000235">A Bed of full-grown Nettles from the West – .</span>
   <span id="f000236">Before us ran the murmuring brook and behind us ran the turn-pike road.</span>
   <span id="f000237">We were in a mood for contemplation and in a Disposition to enjoy so beautifull a spot.</span>
   <span id="f000238">A mutual silence which had for some time reigned between us,</span>
   <span id="f000239">was at length broke by my exclaiming – “What a lovely scene!</span>
   <span id="f000240">Alas why are not Edward and Augustus here to enjoy its Beauties with us?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000242">my beloved Laura</span>
   <span id="f000243">(cried Sophia)</span>
   <span id="f000244">for pity’s sake forbear recalling to my remembrance the unhappy situation of my imprisoned Husband.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Alas,</span>
   <span id="f000246">what would I not give to learn the fate of my Augustus!</span>
   <span id="f000247">to know if he is still in Newgate,</span>
   <span id="f000248">or if he is yet hung.</span>
   <span id="f000249">But never shall I be able so far to conquer my tender sensibility as to enquire after him.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000251">do not I beseech you ever let me again hear you repeat his beloved name – .</span>
   <span id="f000252">It affects me too deeply – .</span>
   <span id="f000253">I cannot bear to hear him mentioned it wounds my feelings.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“Excuse me my Sophia for having thus unwillingly offended you – ” replied I – and then changing the conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000255">desired her to admire the noble Grandeur of the Elms which sheltered us from the Eastern Zephyr.</span>
   <span id="f000256">“Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000257">my Laura</span>
   <span id="f000258">(returned she)</span>
   <span id="f000259">avoid so melancholy a subject,</span>
   <span id="f000260">I intreat you.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Do not again wound my Sensibility by observations on those elms.</span>
   <span id="f000262">They remind me of Augustus.</span>
   <span id="f000263">He was like them,</span>
   <span id="f000264">tall,</span>
   <span id="f000265">magestic – he possessed that noble grandeur which you admire in them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">I was silent,</span>
   <span id="f000267">fearfull lest I might any more unwillingly distress her by fixing on any other subject of conversation which might again remind her of Augustus.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“Why do you not speak my Laura?</span>
   <span id="f000269">(said she after a short pause)</span>
   <span id="f000270">”I cannot support this silence you must not leave me to my own reflections;</span>
   <span id="f000271">they ever recur to Augustus."</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">“What a beautifull sky!</span>
   <span id="f000273">(said I)</span>
   <span id="f000274">How charmingly is the azure varied by those delicate streaks of white!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000276">my Laura</span>
   <span id="f000277">(replied she hastily withdrawing her Eyes from a momentary glance at the sky)</span>
   <span id="f000278">do not thus distress me by calling my Attention to an object which so cruelly reminds me of my Augustus’s blue sattin waistcoat striped in white!</span>
   <span id="f000279">In pity to your unhappy freind avoid a subject so distressing.” What could I do?</span>
   <span id="f000280">The feelings of Sophia were at that time so exquisite,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and the tenderness she felt for Augustus so poignant that I had not power to start any other topic,</span>
   <span id="f000282">justly fearing that it might in some unforseen manner again awaken all her sensibility by directing her thoughts to her Husband.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Yet to be silent would be cruel;</span>
   <span id="f000284">she had intreated me to talk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">From this Dilemma I was most fortunately releived by an accident truly apropos;</span>
   <span id="f000286">it was the lucky overturning of a Gentleman’s Phaeton,</span>
   <span id="f000287">on the road which ran murmuring behind us.</span>
   <span id="f000288">It was a most fortunate accident as it diverted the attention of Sophia from the melancholy reflections which she had been before indulging.</span>
   <span id="f000289">We instantly quitted our seats and ran to the rescue of those who but a few moments before had been in so elevated a situation as a fashionably high Phaeton,</span>
   <span id="f000290">but who were now laid low and sprawling in the Dust.</span>
   <span id="f000291">“What an ample subject for reflection on the uncertain Enjoyments of this World,</span>
   <span id="f000292">would not that Phaeton and the Life of Cardinal Wolsey afford a thinking Mind!” said I to Sophia as we were hastening to the field of Action.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">She had not time to answer me,</span>
   <span id="f000294">for every thought was now engaged by the horrid spectacle before us.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Two Gentlemen most elegantly attired but weltering in their blood was what first struck our Eyes – we approached – they were Edward and Augustus – .</span>
   <span id="f000296">Yes dearest Marianne they were our Husbands.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Sophia shreiked and fainted on the ground – I screamed and instantly ran mad – .</span>
   <span id="f000298">We remained thus mutually deprived of our senses,</span>
   <span id="f000299">some minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and on regaining them were deprived of them again.</span>
   <span id="f000301">For an Hour and a Quarter did we continue in this unfortunate situation – Sophia fainting every moment and I running mad as often.</span>
   <span id="f000302">At length a groan from the hapless Edward</span>
   <span id="f000303">(who alone retained any share of life)</span>
   <span id="f000304">restored us to ourselves.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Had we indeed before imagined that either of them lived,</span>
   <span id="f000306">we should have been more sparing of our Greif – but as we had supposed when we first beheld them that they were no more,</span>
   <span id="f000307">we knew that nothing could remain to be done but what we were about.</span>
   <span id="f000308">No sooner did we therefore hear my Edward’s groan than postponing our lamentations for the present,</span>
   <span id="f000309">we hastily ran to the Dear Youth and kneeling on each side of him implored him not to die – .</span>
   <span id="f000310">“Laura</span>
   <span id="f000311">(said He fixing his now languid Eyes on me)</span>
   <span id="f000312">I fear I have been overturned.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">I was overjoyed to find him yet sensible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000315">tell me Edward</span>
   <span id="f000316">(said I)</span>
   <span id="f000317">tell me I beseech you before you die,</span>
   <span id="f000318">what has befallen you since that unhappy Day in which Augustus was arrested and we were separated – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“I will”</span>
   <span id="f000320">(said he)</span>
   <span id="f000321">and instantly fetching a deep sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000322">Expired – .</span>
   <span id="f000323">Sophia immediately sank again into a swoon – .</span>
   <span id="f000324">MY greif was more audible.</span>
   <span id="f000325">My Voice faltered,</span>
   <span id="f000326">My Eyes assumed a vacant stare,</span>
   <span id="f000327">my face became as pale as Death,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and my senses were considerably impaired – .</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">“Talk not to me of Phaetons</span>
   <span id="f000330">(said I,</span>
   <span id="f000331">raving in a frantic,</span>
   <span id="f000332">incoherent manner)</span>
   <span id="f000333">– Give me a violin – .</span>
   <span id="f000334">I’ll play to him and sooth him in his melancholy Hours – Beware ye gentle Nymphs of Cupid’s Thunderbolts,</span>
   <span id="f000335">avoid the piercing shafts of Jupiter – Look at that grove of Firs – I see a Leg of Mutton – They told me Edward was not Dead;</span>
   <span id="f000336">but they deceived me – they took him for a cucumber – ” Thus I continued wildly exclaiming on my Edward’s Death – .</span>
   <span id="f000337">For two Hours did I rave thus madly and should not then have left off,</span>
   <span id="f000338">as I was not in the least fatigued,</span>
   <span id="f000339">had not Sophia who was just recovered from her swoon,</span>
   <span id="f000340">intreated me to consider that Night was now approaching and that the Damps began to fall.</span>
   <span id="f000341">“And whither shall we go</span>
   <span id="f000342">(said I)</span>
   <span id="f000343">to shelter us from either?” “To that white Cottage.”</span>
   <span id="f000344">(replied she pointing to a neat Building which rose up amidst the grove of Elms and which I had not before observed – )</span>
   <span id="f000345">I agreed and we instantly walked to it – we knocked at the door – it was opened by an old woman;</span>
   <span id="f000346">on being requested to afford us a Night’s Lodging,</span>
   <span id="f000347">she informed us that her House was but small,</span>
   <span id="f000348">that she had only two Bedrooms,</span>
   <span id="f000349">but that However we should be wellcome to one of them.</span>
   <span id="f000350">We were satisfied and followed the good woman into the House where we were greatly cheered by the sight of a comfortable fire – .</span>
   <span id="f000351">She was a widow and had only one Daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000352">who was then just seventeen – One of the best of ages;</span>
   <span id="f000353">but alas!</span>
   <span id="f000354">she was very plain and her name was Bridget…</span>
   <span id="f000355">Nothing therfore could be expected from her – she could not be supposed to possess either exalted Ideas,</span>
   <span id="f000356">Delicate Feelings or refined Sensibilities – .</span>
   <span id="f000357">She was nothing more than a mere good-tempered,</span>
   <span id="f000358">civil and obliging young woman;</span>
   <span id="f000359">as such we could scarcely dislike here – she was only an Object of Contempt – .</span>
   <span id="f000360">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

