<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part III</span></h2>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Letter the 14th Laura in continuation</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">Arm yourself my amiable young Freind with all the philosophy you are Mistress of;</span>
   <span id="f000004">summon up all the fortitude you possess,</span>
   <span id="f000005">for alas!</span>
   <span id="f000006">in the perusal of the following Pages your sensibility will be most severely tried.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000008">what were the misfortunes I had before experienced and which I have already related to you,</span>
   <span id="f000009">to the one I am now going to inform you of.</span>
   <span id="f000010">The Death of my Father and my Mother and my Husband though almost more than my gentle Nature could support,</span>
   <span id="f000011">were trifles in comparison to the misfortune I am now proceeding to relate.</span>
   <span id="f000012">The morning after our arrival at the Cottage,</span>
   <span id="f000013">Sophia complained of a violent pain in her delicate limbs,</span>
   <span id="f000014">accompanied with a disagreable Head-ake She attributed it to a cold caught by her continued faintings in the open air as the Dew was falling the Evening before.</span>
   <span id="f000015">This I feared was but too probably the case;</span>
   <span id="f000016">since how could it be otherwise accounted for that I should have escaped the same indisposition,</span>
   <span id="f000017">but by supposing that the bodily Exertions I had undergone in my repeated fits of frenzy had so effectually circulated and warmed my Blood as to make me proof against the chilling Damps of Night,</span>
   <span id="f000018">whereas,</span>
   <span id="f000019">Sophia lying totally inactive on the ground must have been exposed to all their severity.</span>
   <span id="f000020">I was most seriously alarmed by her illness which trifling as it may appear to you,</span>
   <span id="f000021">a certain instinctive sensibility whispered me,</span>
   <span id="f000022">would in the End be fatal to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000024">my fears were but too fully justified;</span>
   <span id="f000025">she grew gradually worse – and I daily became more alarmed for her.</span>
   <span id="f000026">At length she was obliged to confine herself solely to the Bed allotted us by our worthy Landlady – .</span>
   <span id="f000027">Her disorder turned to a galloping Consumption and in a few days carried her off.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Amidst all my Lamentations for her</span>
   <span id="f000029">(and violent you may suppose they were)</span>
   <span id="f000030">I yet received some consolation in the reflection of my having paid every attention to her,</span>
   <span id="f000031">that could be offered,</span>
   <span id="f000032">in her illness.</span>
   <span id="f000033">I had wept over her every Day – had bathed her sweet face with my tears and had pressed her fair Hands continually in mine – .</span>
   <span id="f000034">“My beloved Laura</span>
   <span id="f000035">(said she to me a few Hours before she died)</span>
   <span id="f000036">take warning from my unhappy End and avoid the imprudent conduct which had occasioned it…</span>
   <span id="f000037">Beware of fainting-fits…</span>
   <span id="f000038">Though at the time they may be refreshing and agreable yet beleive me they will in the end,</span>
   <span id="f000039">if too often repeated and at improper seasons,</span>
   <span id="f000040">prove destructive to your Constitution…</span>
   <span id="f000041">My fate will teach you this..</span>
   <span id="f000042">I die a Martyr to my greif for the loss of Augustus..</span>
   <span id="f000043">One fatal swoon has cost me my Life..</span>
   <span id="f000044">Beware of swoons Dear Laura…</span>
   <span id="f000045">A frenzy fit is not one quarter so pernicious;</span>
   <span id="f000046">it is an exercise to the Body and if not too violent,</span>
   <span id="f000047">is I dare say conducive to Health in its consequences – Run mad as often as you chuse;</span>
   <span id="f000048">but do not faint – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">These were the last words she ever addressed to me..</span>
   <span id="f000050">It was her dieing Advice to her afflicted Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000051">who has ever most faithfully adhered to it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">After having attended my lamented freind to her Early Grave,</span>
   <span id="f000053">I immediately</span>
   <span id="f000054">(tho’ late at night)</span>
   <span id="f000055">left the detested Village in which she died,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and near which had expired my Husband and Augustus.</span>
   <span id="f000057">I had not walked many yards from it before I was overtaken by a stage-coach,</span>
   <span id="f000058">in which I instantly took a place,</span>
   <span id="f000059">determined to proceed in it to Edinburgh,</span>
   <span id="f000060">where I hoped to find some kind some pitying Freind who would receive and comfort me in my afflictions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">It was so dark when I entered the Coach that I could not distinguish the Number of my Fellow-travellers;</span>
   <span id="f000062">I could only perceive that they were many.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Regardless however of anything concerning them,</span>
   <span id="f000064">I gave myself up to my own sad Reflections.</span>
   <span id="f000065">A general silence prevailed – A silence,</span>
   <span id="f000066">which was by nothing interrupted but by the loud and repeated snores of one of the Party.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“What an illiterate villain must that man be!</span>
   <span id="f000068">(thought I to myself)</span>
   <span id="f000069">What a total want of delicate refinement must he have,</span>
   <span id="f000070">who can thus shock our senses by such a brutal noise!</span>
   <span id="f000071">He must I am certain be capable of every bad action!</span>
   <span id="f000072">There is no crime too black for such a Character!” Thus reasoned I within myself,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and doubtless such were the reflections of my fellow travellers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000075">returning Day enabled me to behold the unprincipled Scoundrel who had so violently disturbed my feelings.</span>
   <span id="f000076">It was Sir Edward the father of my Deceased Husband.</span>
   <span id="f000077">By his side sate Augusta,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and on the same seat with me were your Mother and Lady Dorothea.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Imagine my surprise at finding myself thus seated amongst my old Acquaintance.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Great as was my astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f000081">it was yet increased,</span>
   <span id="f000082">when on looking out of Windows,</span>
   <span id="f000083">I beheld the Husband of Philippa,</span>
   <span id="f000084">with Philippa by his side,</span>
   <span id="f000085">on the Coachbox and when on looking behind I beheld,</span>
   <span id="f000086">Philander and Gustavus in the Basket.</span>
   <span id="f000087">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000088">Heavens,</span>
   <span id="f000089">(exclaimed I)</span>
   <span id="f000090">is it possible that I should so unexpectedly be surrounded by my nearest Relations and Connections?” These words roused the rest of the Party,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and every eye was directed to the corner in which I sat.</span>
   <span id="f000092">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000093">my Isabel</span>
   <span id="f000094">(continued I throwing myself across Lady Dorothea into her arms)</span>
   <span id="f000095">receive once more to your Bosom the unfortunate Laura.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000097">when we last parted in the Vale of Usk,</span>
   <span id="f000098">I was happy in being united to the best of Edwards;</span>
   <span id="f000099">I had then a Father and a Mother,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and had never known misfortunes – But now deprived of every freind but you – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“What!</span>
   <span id="f000102">(interrupted Augusta)</span>
   <span id="f000103">is my Brother dead then?</span>
   <span id="f000104">Tell us I intreat you what is become of him?” “Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000105">cold and insensible Nymph,</span>
   <span id="f000106">(replied I)</span>
   <span id="f000107">that luckless swain your Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000108">is no more,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and you may now glory in being the Heiress of Sir Edward’s fortune.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">Although I had always despised her from the Day I had overheard her conversation with my Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000111">yet in civility I complied with hers and Sir Edward’s intreaties that I would inform them of the whole melancholy affair.</span>
   <span id="f000112">They were greatly shocked – even the obdurate Heart of Sir Edward and the insensible one of Augusta,</span>
   <span id="f000113">were touched with sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000114">by the unhappy tale.</span>
   <span id="f000115">At the request of your Mother I related to them every other misfortune which had befallen me since we parted.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Of the imprisonment of Augustus and the absence of Edward – of our arrival in Scotland – of our unexpected Meeting with our Grand-father and our cousins – of our visit to Macdonald-Hall – of the singular service we there performed towards Janetta – of her Fathers ingratitude for it..</span>
   <span id="f000117">of his inhuman Behaviour,</span>
   <span id="f000118">unaccountable suspicions,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and barbarous treatment of us,</span>
   <span id="f000120">in obliging us to leave the House..</span>
   <span id="f000121">of our lamentations on the loss of Edward and Augustus and finally of the melancholy Death of my beloved Companion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">Pity and surprise were strongly depictured in your Mother’s countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000123">during the whole of my narration,</span>
   <span id="f000124">but I am sorry to say,</span>
   <span id="f000125">that to the eternal reproach of her sensibility,</span>
   <span id="f000126">the latter infinitely predominated.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000128">faultless as my conduct had certainly been during the whole course of my late misfortunes and adventures,</span>
   <span id="f000129">she pretended to find fault with my behaviour in many of the situations in which I had been placed.</span>
   <span id="f000130">As I was sensible myself,</span>
   <span id="f000131">that I had always behaved in a manner which reflected Honour on my Feelings and Refinement,</span>
   <span id="f000132">I paid little attention to what she said,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and desired her to satisfy my Curiosity by informing me how she came there,</span>
   <span id="f000134">instead of wounding my spotless reputation with unjustifiable Reproaches.</span>
   <span id="f000135">As soon as she had complyed with my wishes in this particular and had given me an accurate detail of every thing that had befallen her since our separation</span>
   <span id="f000136">(the particulars of which if you are not already acquainted with,</span>
   <span id="f000137">your Mother will give you)</span>
   <span id="f000138">I applied to Augusta for the same information respecting herself,</span>
   <span id="f000139">Sir Edward and Lady Dorothea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">She told me that having a considerable taste for the Beauties of Nature,</span>
   <span id="f000141">her curiosity to behold the delightful scenes it exhibited in that part of the World had been so much raised by Gilpin’s Tour to the Highlands,</span>
   <span id="f000142">that she had prevailed on her Father to undertake a Tour to Scotland and had persuaded Lady Dorothea to accompany them.</span>
   <span id="f000143">That they had arrived at Edinburgh a few Days before and from thence had made daily Excursions into the Country around in the Stage Coach they were then in,</span>
   <span id="f000144">from one of which Excursions they were at that time returning.</span>
   <span id="f000145">My next enquiries were concerning Philippa and her Husband,</span>
   <span id="f000146">the latter of whom I learned having spent all her fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000147">had recourse for subsistence to the talent in which,</span>
   <span id="f000148">he had always most excelled,</span>
   <span id="f000149">namely,</span>
   <span id="f000150">Driving,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and that having sold every thing which belonged to them except their Coach,</span>
   <span id="f000152">had converted it into a Stage and in order to be removed from any of his former Acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f000153">had driven it to Edinburgh from whence he went to Sterling every other Day.</span>
   <span id="f000154">That Philippa still retaining her affection for her ungratefull Husband,</span>
   <span id="f000155">had followed him to Scotland and generally accompanied him in his little Excursions to Sterling.</span>
   <span id="f000156">“It has only been to throw a little money into their Pockets</span>
   <span id="f000157">(continued Augusta)</span>
   <span id="f000158">that my Father has always travelled in their Coach to veiw the beauties of the Country since our arrival in Scotland – for it would certainly have been much more agreable to us,</span>
   <span id="f000159">to visit the Highlands in a Postchaise than merely to travel from Edinburgh to Sterling and from Sterling to Edinburgh every other Day in a crowded and uncomfortable Stage.” I perfectly agreed with her in her sentiments on the affair,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and secretly blamed Sir Edward for thus sacrificing his Daughter’s Pleasure for the sake of a ridiculous old woman whose folly in marrying so young a man ought to be punished.</span>
   <span id="f000161">His Behaviour however was entirely of a peice with his general Character;</span>
   <span id="f000162">for what could be expected from a man who possessed not the smallest atom of Sensibility,</span>
   <span id="f000163">who scarcely knew the meaning of simpathy,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and who actually snored – .</span>
   <span id="f000165">Adeiu Laura.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000166">Letter the 15th Laura in continuation.</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000167">When we arrived at the town where we were to Breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000168">I was determined to speak with Philander and Gustavus,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and to that purpose as soon as I left the Carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000170">I went to the Basket and tenderly enquired after their Health,</span>
   <span id="f000171">expressing my fears of the uneasiness of their situation.</span>
   <span id="f000172">At first they seemed rather confused at my appearance dreading no doubt that I might call them to account for the money which our Grandfather had left me and which they had unjustly deprived me of,</span>
   <span id="f000173">but finding that I mentioned nothing of the Matter,</span>
   <span id="f000174">they desired me to step into the Basket as we might there converse with greater ease.</span>
   <span id="f000175">Accordingly I entered and whilst the rest of the party were devouring green tea and buttered toast,</span>
   <span id="f000176">we feasted ourselves in a more refined and sentimental Manner by a confidential Conversation.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I informed them of every thing which had befallen me during the course of my life,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and at my request they related to me every incident of theirs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“We are the sons as you already know,</span>
   <span id="f000180">of the two youngest Daughters which Lord St Clair had by Laurina an italian opera girl.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Our mothers could neither of them exactly ascertain who were our Father,</span>
   <span id="f000182">though it is generally beleived that Philander,</span>
   <span id="f000183">is the son of one Philip Jones a Bricklayer and that my Father was one Gregory Staves a Staymaker of Edinburgh.</span>
   <span id="f000184">This is however of little consequence for as our Mothers were certainly never married to either of them it reflects no Dishonour on our Blood,</span>
   <span id="f000185">which is of a most ancient and unpolluted kind.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Bertha</span>
   <span id="f000187">(the Mother of Philander)</span>
   <span id="f000188">and Agatha</span>
   <span id="f000189">(my own Mother)</span>
   <span id="f000190">always lived together.</span>
   <span id="f000191">They were neither of them very rich;</span>
   <span id="f000192">their united fortunes had originally amounted to nine thousand Pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000193">but as they had always lived on the principal of it,</span>
   <span id="f000194">when we were fifteen it was diminished to nine Hundred.</span>
   <span id="f000195">This nine Hundred they always kept in a Drawer in one of the Tables which stood in our common sitting Parlour,</span>
   <span id="f000196">for the convenience of having it always at Hand.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Whether it was from this circumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000198">of its being easily taken,</span>
   <span id="f000199">or from a wish of being independant,</span>
   <span id="f000200">or from an excess of sensibility</span>
   <span id="f000201">(for which we were always remarkable)</span>
   <span id="f000202">I cannot now determine,</span>
   <span id="f000203">but certain it is that when we had reached our 15th year,</span>
   <span id="f000204">we took the nine Hundred Pounds and ran away.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Having obtained this prize we were determined to manage it with eoconomy and not to spend it either with folly or Extravagance.</span>
   <span id="f000206">To this purpose we therefore divided it into nine parcels,</span>
   <span id="f000207">one of which we devoted to Victuals,</span>
   <span id="f000208">the 2d to Drink,</span>
   <span id="f000209">the 3d to Housekeeping,</span>
   <span id="f000210">the 4th to Carriages,</span>
   <span id="f000211">the 5th to Horses,</span>
   <span id="f000212">the 6th to Servants,</span>
   <span id="f000213">the 7th to Amusements,</span>
   <span id="f000214">the 8th to Cloathes and the 9th to Silver Buckles.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Having thus arranged our Expences for two months</span>
   <span id="f000216">(for we expected to make the nine Hundred Pounds last as long)</span>
   <span id="f000217">we hastened to London and had the good luck to spend it in 7 weeks and a Day which was 6 Days sooner than we had intended.</span>
   <span id="f000218">As soon as we had thus happily disencumbered ourselves from the weight of so much money,</span>
   <span id="f000219">we began to think of returning to our Mothers,</span>
   <span id="f000220">but accidentally hearing that they were both starved to Death,</span>
   <span id="f000221">we gave over the design and determined to engage ourselves to some strolling Company of Players,</span>
   <span id="f000222">as we had always a turn for the Stage.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Accordingly we offered our services to one and were accepted;</span>
   <span id="f000224">our Company was indeed rather small,</span>
   <span id="f000225">as it consisted only of the Manager his wife and ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000226">but there were fewer to pay and the only inconvenience attending it was the Scarcity of Plays which for want of People to fill the Characters,</span>
   <span id="f000227">we could perform.</span>
   <span id="f000228">We did not mind trifles however – .</span>
   <span id="f000229">One of our most admired Performances was MACBETH,</span>
   <span id="f000230">in which we were truly great.</span>
   <span id="f000231">The Manager always played BANQUO himself,</span>
   <span id="f000232">his Wife my LADY MACBETH.</span>
   <span id="f000233">I did the THREE WITCHES and Philander acted ALL THE REST.</span>
   <span id="f000234">To say the truth this tragedy was not only the Best,</span>
   <span id="f000235">but the only Play that we ever performed;</span>
   <span id="f000236">and after having acted it all over England,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and Wales,</span>
   <span id="f000238">we came to Scotland to exhibit it over the remainder of Great Britain.</span>
   <span id="f000239">We happened to be quartered in that very Town,</span>
   <span id="f000240">where you came and met your Grandfather – .</span>
   <span id="f000241">We were in the Inn-yard when his Carriage entered and perceiving by the arms to whom it belonged,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and knowing that Lord St Clair was our Grandfather,</span>
   <span id="f000243">we agreed to endeavour to get something from him by discovering the Relationship – .</span>
   <span id="f000244">You know how well it succeeded – .</span>
   <span id="f000245">Having obtained the two Hundred Pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000246">we instantly left the Town,</span>
   <span id="f000247">leaving our Manager and his Wife to act MACBETH by themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and took the road to Sterling,</span>
   <span id="f000249">where we spent our little fortune with great ECLAT.</span>
   <span id="f000250">We are now returning to Edinburgh in order to get some preferment in the Acting way;</span>
   <span id="f000251">and such my Dear Cousin is our History.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">I thanked the amiable Youth for his entertaining narration,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and after expressing my wishes for their Welfare and Happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000254">left them in their little Habitation and returned to my other Freinds who impatiently expected me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">My adventures are now drawing to a close my dearest Marianne;</span>
   <span id="f000256">at least for the present.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">When we arrived at Edinburgh Sir Edward told me that as the Widow of his son,</span>
   <span id="f000258">he desired I would accept from his Hands of four Hundred a year.</span>
   <span id="f000259">I graciously promised that I would,</span>
   <span id="f000260">but could not help observing that the unsimpathetic Baronet offered it more on account of my being the Widow of Edward than in being the refined and amiable Laura.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">I took up my Residence in a Romantic Village in the Highlands of Scotland where I have ever since continued,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and where I can uninterrupted by unmeaning Visits,</span>
   <span id="f000263">indulge in a melancholy solitude,</span>
   <span id="f000264">my unceasing Lamentations for the Death of my Father,</span>
   <span id="f000265">my Mother,</span>
   <span id="f000266">my Husband and my Freind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">Augusta has been for several years united to Graham the Man of all others most suited to her;</span>
   <span id="f000268">she became acquainted with him during her stay in Scotland.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">Sir Edward in hopes of gaining an Heir to his Title and Estate,</span>
   <span id="f000270">at the same time married Lady Dorothea – .</span>
   <span id="f000271">His wishes have been answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">Philander and Gustavus,</span>
   <span id="f000273">after having raised their reputation by their Performances in the Theatrical Line at Edinburgh,</span>
   <span id="f000274">removed to Covent Garden,</span>
   <span id="f000275">where they still exhibit under the assumed names of LUVIS and QUICK.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">Philippa has long paid the Debt of Nature,</span>
   <span id="f000277">Her Husband however still continues to drive the Stage-Coach from Edinburgh to Sterling:</span>
   <span id="f000278">– Adeiu my Dearest Marianne.</span>
   <span id="f000279">Laura.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">Finis</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">June 13th 1790.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

