<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>mb</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Flappers and Philosophers</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">The Four Fists</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">At the present time no one I know has the slightest desire to hit Samuel Meredith;</span>
   <span id="f000009">possibly this is because a man over fifty is liable to be rather severely cracked at the impact of a hostile fist,</span>
   <span id="f000010">but,</span>
   <span id="f000011">for my part,</span>
   <span id="f000012">I am inclined to think that all his hitable qualities have quite vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000013">But it is certain that at various times in his life hitable qualities were in his face,</span>
   <span id="f000014">as surely as kissable qualities have ever lurked in a girl’s lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">I’m sure every one has met a man like that,</span>
   <span id="f000016">been casually introduced,</span>
   <span id="f000017">even made a friend of him,</span>
   <span id="f000018">yet felt he was the sort who aroused passionate dislike – expressed by some in the involuntary clinching of fists,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and in others by mutterings about “takin’ a poke” and “landin’ a swift smash in ee eye.” In the juxtaposition of Samuel Meredith’s features this quality was so strong that it influenced his entire life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">What was it?</span>
   <span id="f000021">Not the shape,</span>
   <span id="f000022">certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000023">for he was a pleasant-looking man from earliest youth:</span>
   <span id="f000024">broad-bowed with gray eyes that were frank and friendly.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Yet I’ve heard him tell a room full of reporters angling for a “success” story that he’d be ashamed to tell them the truth that they wouldn’t believe it,</span>
   <span id="f000026">that it wasn’t one story but four,</span>
   <span id="f000027">that the public would not want to read about a man who had been walloped into prominence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">It all started at Phillips Andover Academy when he was fourteen.</span>
   <span id="f000029">He had been brought up on a diet of caviar and bell-boys’ legs in half the capitals of Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and it was pure luck that his mother had nervous prostration and had to delegate his education to less tender,</span>
   <span id="f000031">less biassed hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">At Andover he was given a roommate named Gilly Hood.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Gilly was thirteen,</span>
   <span id="f000034">undersized,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and rather the school pet.</span>
   <span id="f000036">From the September day when Mr.&#160;Meredith’s valet stowed Samuel’s clothing in the best bureau and asked,</span>
   <span id="f000037">on departing,</span>
   <span id="f000038">“hif there was hanything helse,</span>
   <span id="f000039">Master Samuel?” Gilly cried out that the faculty had played him false.</span>
   <span id="f000040">He felt like an irate frog in whose bowl has been put goldfish.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">“Good gosh!” he complained to his sympathetic contemporaries,</span>
   <span id="f000042">“he’s a damn stuck-up Willie.</span>
   <span id="f000043">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000044">’Are the crowd here gentlemen?’ and I said,</span>
   <span id="f000045">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000046">they’re boys,’ and he said age didn’t matter,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and I said,</span>
   <span id="f000048">’Who said it did?’ Let him get fresh with me,</span>
   <span id="f000049">the ole pieface!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">For three weeks Gilly endured in silence young Samuel’s comments on the clothes and habits of Gilly’s personal friends,</span>
   <span id="f000051">endured French phrases in conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000052">endured a hundred half-feminine meannesses that show what a nervous mother can do to a boy,</span>
   <span id="f000053">if she keeps close enough to him – then a storm broke in the aquarium.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">Samuel was out.</span>
   <span id="f000055">A crowd had gathered to hear Gilly be wrathful about his roommate’s latest sins.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">“He said,</span>
   <span id="f000057">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000058">I don’t like the windows open at night,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000059">’except only a little bit,’” complained Gilly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“Don’t let him boss you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">“Boss me?</span>
   <span id="f000062">You bet he won’t.</span>
   <span id="f000063">I open those windows,</span>
   <span id="f000064">I guess,</span>
   <span id="f000065">but the darn fool won’t take turns shuttin’ ’em in the morning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“Make him,</span>
   <span id="f000067">Gilly,</span>
   <span id="f000068">why don’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“I’m going to.” Gilly nodded his head in fierce agreement.</span>
   <span id="f000070">“Don’t you worry.</span>
   <span id="f000071">He needn’t think I’m any ole butler.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">“Le’s see you make him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">At this point the darn fool entered in person and included the crowd in one of his irritating smiles.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Two boys said,</span>
   <span id="f000075">“’Lo,</span>
   <span id="f000076">Mer’dith”;</span>
   <span id="f000077">the others gave him a chilly glance and went on talking to Gilly.</span>
   <span id="f000078">But Samuel seemed unsatisfied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“Would you mind not sitting on my bed?” he suggested politely to two of Gilly’s particulars who were perched very much at ease.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“Huh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“My bed.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Can’t you understand English?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">This was adding insult to injury.</span>
   <span id="f000084">There were several comments on the bed’s sanitary condition and the evidence within it of animal life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“S’matter with your old bed?” demanded Gilly truculently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“The bed’s all right,</span>
   <span id="f000087">but – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">Gilly interrupted this sentence by rising and walking up to Samuel.</span>
   <span id="f000089">He paused several inches away and eyed him fiercely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“You an’ your crazy ole bed,” he began.</span>
   <span id="f000091">“You an’ your crazy – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Go to it,</span>
   <span id="f000093">Gilly,” murmured some one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“Show the darn fool – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">Samuel returned the gaze coolly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“Well,” he said finally,</span>
   <span id="f000097">“it’s my bed – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">He got no further,</span>
   <span id="f000099">for Gilly hauled off and hit him succinctly in the nose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“Yea!</span>
   <span id="f000101">Gilly!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“Show the big bully!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Just let him touch you – he’ll see!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">The group closed in on them and for the first time in his life Samuel realized the insuperable inconvenience of being passionately detested.</span>
   <span id="f000105">He gazed around helplessly at the glowering,</span>
   <span id="f000106">violently hostile faces.</span>
   <span id="f000107">He towered a head taller than his roommate,</span>
   <span id="f000108">so if he hit back he’d be called a bully and have half a dozen more fights on his hands within five minutes;</span>
   <span id="f000109">yet if he didn’t he was a coward.</span>
   <span id="f000110">For a moment he stood there facing Gilly’s blazing eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000112">with a sudden choking sound,</span>
   <span id="f000113">he forced his way through the ring and rushed from the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">The month following bracketed the thirty most miserable days of his life.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Every waking moment he was under the lashing tongues of his contemporaries;</span>
   <span id="f000116">his habits and mannerisms became butts for intolerable witticisms and,</span>
   <span id="f000117">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000118">the sensitiveness of adolescence was a further thorn.</span>
   <span id="f000119">He considered that he was a natural pariah;</span>
   <span id="f000120">that the unpopularity at school would follow him through life.</span>
   <span id="f000121">When he went home for the Christmas holidays he was so despondent that his father sent him to a nerve specialist.</span>
   <span id="f000122">When he returned to Andover he arranged to arrive late so that he could be alone in the bus during the drive from station to school.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">Of course when he had learned to keep his mouth shut every one promptly forgot all about him.</span>
   <span id="f000124">The next autumn,</span>
   <span id="f000125">with his realization that consideration for others was the discreet attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000126">he made good use of the clean start given him by the shortness of boyhood memory.</span>
   <span id="f000127">By the beginning of his senior year Samuel Meredith was one of the best-liked boys of his class – and no one was any stronger for him than his first friend and constant companion,</span>
   <span id="f000128">Gilly Hood.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000129">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000130">Samuel became the sort of college student who in the early nineties drove tandems and coaches and tallyhos between Princeton and Yale and New York City to show that they appreciated the social importance of football games.</span>
   <span id="f000131">He believed passionately in good form – his choosing of gloves,</span>
   <span id="f000132">his tying of ties,</span>
   <span id="f000133">his holding of reins were imitated by impressionable freshmen.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Outside of his own set he was considered rather a snob,</span>
   <span id="f000135">but as his set was THE set,</span>
   <span id="f000136">it never worried him.</span>
   <span id="f000137">He played football in the autumn,</span>
   <span id="f000138">drank high-balls in the winter,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and rowed in the spring.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Samuel despised all those who were merely sportsmen without being gentlemen or merely gentlemen without being sportsmen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">He lived in New York and often brought home several of his friends for the week-end.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Those were the days of the horse-car and in case of a crush it was,</span>
   <span id="f000143">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000144">the proper thing for any one of Samuel’s set to rise and deliver his seat to a standing lady with a formal bow.</span>
   <span id="f000145">One night in Samuel’s junior year he boarded a car with two of his intimates.</span>
   <span id="f000146">There were three vacant seats.</span>
   <span id="f000147">When Samuel sat down he noticed a heavy-eyed laboring man sitting next to him who smelt objectionably of garlic,</span>
   <span id="f000148">sagged slightly against Samuel and,</span>
   <span id="f000149">spreading a little as a tired man will,</span>
   <span id="f000150">took up quite too much room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">The car had gone several blocks when it stopped for a quartet of young girls,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and,</span>
   <span id="f000153">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000154">the three men of the world sprang to their feet and proffered their seats with due observance of form.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Unfortunately,</span>
   <span id="f000156">the laborer,</span>
   <span id="f000157">being unacquainted with the code of neckties and tallyhos,</span>
   <span id="f000158">failed to follow their example,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and one young lady was left at an embarrassed stance.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Fourteen eyes glared reproachfully at the barbarian;</span>
   <span id="f000161">seven lips curled slightly;</span>
   <span id="f000162">but the object of scorn stared stolidly into the foreground in sturdy unconsciousness of his despicable conduct.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Samuel was the most violently affected.</span>
   <span id="f000164">He was humiliated that any male should so conduct himself.</span>
   <span id="f000165">He spoke aloud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“There’s a lady standing,” he said sternly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">That should have been quite enough,</span>
   <span id="f000168">but the object of scorn only looked up blankly.</span>
   <span id="f000169">The standing girl tittered and exchanged nervous glances with her companions.</span>
   <span id="f000170">But Samuel was aroused.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“There’s a lady standing,” he repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000172">rather raspingly.</span>
   <span id="f000173">The man seemed to comprehend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“I pay my fare,” he said quietly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">Samuel turned red and his hands clinched,</span>
   <span id="f000176">but the conductor was looking their way,</span>
   <span id="f000177">so at a warning nod from his friends he subsided into sullen gloom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">They reached their destination and left the car,</span>
   <span id="f000179">but so did the laborer,</span>
   <span id="f000180">who followed them,</span>
   <span id="f000181">swinging his little pail.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Seeing his chance,</span>
   <span id="f000183">Samuel no longer resisted his aristocratic inclination.</span>
   <span id="f000184">He turned around and,</span>
   <span id="f000185">launching a full-featured,</span>
   <span id="f000186">dime-novel sneer,</span>
   <span id="f000187">made a loud remark about the right of the lower animals to ride with human beings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">In a half-second the workman had dropped his pail and let fly at him.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Unprepared,</span>
   <span id="f000190">Samuel took the blow neatly on the jaw and sprawled full length into the cobblestone gutter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“Don’t laugh at me!” cried his assailant.</span>
   <span id="f000192">“I been workin’ all day.</span>
   <span id="f000193">I’m tired as hell!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">As he spoke the sudden anger died out of his eyes and the mask of weariness dropped again over his face.</span>
   <span id="f000195">He turned and picked up his pail.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Samuel’s friends took a quick step in his direction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“Wait!” Samuel had risen slowly and was motioning back.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Some time,</span>
   <span id="f000199">somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000200">he had been struck like that before.</span>
   <span id="f000201">Then he remembered – Gilly Hood.</span>
   <span id="f000202">In the silence,</span>
   <span id="f000203">as he dusted himself off,</span>
   <span id="f000204">the whole scene in the room at Andover was before his eyes – and he knew intuitively that he had been wrong again.</span>
   <span id="f000205">This man’s strength,</span>
   <span id="f000206">his rest,</span>
   <span id="f000207">was the protection of his family.</span>
   <span id="f000208">He had more use for his seat in the street-car than any young girl.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“It’s all right,” said Samuel gruffly.</span>
   <span id="f000210">“Don’t touch ’him.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I’ve been a damn fool.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">Of course it took more than an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000213">or a week,</span>
   <span id="f000214">for Samuel to rearrange his ideas on the essential importance of good form.</span>
   <span id="f000215">At first he simply admitted that his wrongness had made him powerless – as it had made him powerless against Gilly – but eventually his mistake about the workman influenced his entire attitude.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Snobbishness is,</span>
   <span id="f000217">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000218">merely good breeding grown dictatorial;</span>
   <span id="f000219">so Samuel’s code remained but the necessity of imposing it upon others had faded out in a certain gutter.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Within that year his class had somehow stopped referring to him as a snob.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000221">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000222">After a few years Samuel’s university decided that it had shone long enough in the reflected glory of his neckties,</span>
   <span id="f000223">so they declaimed to him in Latin,</span>
   <span id="f000224">charged him ten dollars for the paper which proved him irretrievably educated,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and sent him into the turmoil with much self-confidence,</span>
   <span id="f000226">a few friends,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and the proper assortment of harmless bad habits.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">His family had by that time started back to shirt-sleeves,</span>
   <span id="f000229">through a sudden decline in the sugar-market,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and it had already unbuttoned its vest,</span>
   <span id="f000231">so to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000232">when Samuel went to work.</span>
   <span id="f000233">His mind was that exquisite TABULA RASA that a university education sometimes leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000234">but he had both energy and influence,</span>
   <span id="f000235">so he used his former ability as a dodging half-back in twisting through Wall Street crowds as runner for a bank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">His diversion was – women.</span>
   <span id="f000237">There were half a dozen:</span>
   <span id="f000238">two or three débutantes,</span>
   <span id="f000239">an actress</span>
   <span id="f000240">(in a minor way),</span>
   <span id="f000241">a grass-widow,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and one sentimental little brunette who was married and lived in a little house in Jersey City.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">They had met on a ferry-boat.</span>
   <span id="f000244">Samuel was crossing from New York on business</span>
   <span id="f000245">(he had been working several years by this time)</span>
   <span id="f000246">and he helped her look for a package that she had dropped in the crush.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“Do you come over often?” he inquired casually.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“Just to shop,” she said shyly.</span>
   <span id="f000249">She had great brown eyes and the pathetic kind of little mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000250">“I’ve only been married three months,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and we find it cheaper to live over here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Does he – does your husband like your being alone like this?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">She laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000254">a cheery young laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000256">dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000257">no.</span>
   <span id="f000258">We were to meet for dinner but I must have misunderstood the place.</span>
   <span id="f000259">He’ll be awfully worried.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“Well,” said Samuel disapprovingly,</span>
   <span id="f000261">“he ought to be.</span>
   <span id="f000262">If you’ll allow me I’ll see you home.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">She accepted his offer thankfully,</span>
   <span id="f000264">so they took the cable-car together.</span>
   <span id="f000265">When they walked up the path to her little house they saw a light there;</span>
   <span id="f000266">her husband had arrived before her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“He’s frightfully jealous,” she announced,</span>
   <span id="f000268">laughingly apologetic.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Very well,” answered Samuel,</span>
   <span id="f000270">rather stiffly.</span>
   <span id="f000271">“I’d better leave you here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">She thanked him and,</span>
   <span id="f000273">waving a good night,</span>
   <span id="f000274">he left her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">That would have been quite all if they hadn’t met on Fifth Avenue one morning a week later.</span>
   <span id="f000276">She started and blushed and seemed so glad to see him that they chatted like old friends.</span>
   <span id="f000277">She was going to her dressmaker’s,</span>
   <span id="f000278">eat lunch alone at Taine’s,</span>
   <span id="f000279">shop all afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and meet her husband on the ferry at five.</span>
   <span id="f000281">Samuel told her that her husband was a very lucky man.</span>
   <span id="f000282">She blushed again and scurried off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">Samuel whistled all the way back to his office,</span>
   <span id="f000284">but about twelve o’clock he began to see that pathetic,</span>
   <span id="f000285">appealing little mouth everywhere – and those brown eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000286">He fidgeted when he looked at the clock;</span>
   <span id="f000287">he thought of the grill down-stairs where he lunched and the heavy male conversation thereof,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and opposed to that picture appeared another;</span>
   <span id="f000289">a little table at Taine’s with the brown eyes and the mouth a few feet away.</span>
   <span id="f000290">A few minutes before twelve-thirty he dashed on his hat and rushed for the cable-car.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">She was quite surprised to see him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“Why – hello,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Samuel could tell that she was just pleasantly frightened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“I thought we might lunch together.</span>
   <span id="f000295">It’s so dull eating with a lot of men.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">She hesitated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000298">I suppose there’s no harm in it.</span>
   <span id="f000299">How could there be!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">It occurred to her that her husband should have taken lunch with her – but he was generally so hurried at noon.</span>
   <span id="f000301">She told Samuel all about him:</span>
   <span id="f000302">he was a little smaller than Samuel,</span>
   <span id="f000303">but,</span>
   <span id="f000304">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000305">MUCH better-looking.</span>
   <span id="f000306">He was a book-keeper and not making a lot of money,</span>
   <span id="f000307">but they were very happy and expected to be rich within three or four years.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">Samuel’s grass-widow had been in a quarrelsome mood for three or four weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and through contrast,</span>
   <span id="f000310">he took an accentuated pleasure in this meeting;</span>
   <span id="f000311">so fresh was she,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and earnest,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and faintly adventurous.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Her name was Marjorie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">They made another engagement;</span>
   <span id="f000316">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000317">for a month they lunched together two or three times a week.</span>
   <span id="f000318">When she was sure that her husband would work late Samuel took her over to New Jersey on the ferry,</span>
   <span id="f000319">leaving her always on the tiny front porch,</span>
   <span id="f000320">after she had gone in and lit the gas to use the security of his masculine presence outside.</span>
   <span id="f000321">This grew to be a ceremony – and it annoyed him.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Whenever the comfortable glow fell out through the front windows,</span>
   <span id="f000323">that was his CONGÉ;</span>
   <span id="f000324">yet he never suggested coming in and Marjorie didn’t invite him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000326">when Samuel and Marjorie had reached a stage in which they sometimes touched each other’s arms gently,</span>
   <span id="f000327">just to show that they were very good friends,</span>
   <span id="f000328">Marjorie and her husband had one of those ultrasensitive,</span>
   <span id="f000329">supercritical quarrels that couples never indulge in unless they care a great deal about each other.</span>
   <span id="f000330">It started with a cold mutton-chop or a leak in the gas-jet – and one day Samuel found her in Taine’s,</span>
   <span id="f000331">with dark shadows under her brown eyes and a terrifying pout.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">By this time Samuel thought he was in love with Marjorie – so he played up the quarrel for all it was worth.</span>
   <span id="f000333">He was her best friend and patted her hand – and leaned down close to her brown curls while she whispered in little sobs what her husband had said that morning;</span>
   <span id="f000334">and he was a little more than her best friend when he took her over to the ferry in a hansom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“Marjorie,” he said gently,</span>
   <span id="f000336">when he left her,</span>
   <span id="f000337">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000338">on the porch,</span>
   <span id="f000339">“if at any time you want to call on me,</span>
   <span id="f000340">remember that I am always waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000341">always waiting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">She nodded gravely and put both her hands in his.</span>
   <span id="f000343">“I know,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000344">“I know you’re my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000345">my best friend.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">Then she ran into the house and he watched there until the gas went on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">For the next week Samuel was in a nervous turmoil.</span>
   <span id="f000348">Some persistently rational strain warned him that at bottom he and Marjorie had little in common,</span>
   <span id="f000349">but in such cases there is usually so much mud in the water that one can seldom see to the bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Every dream and desire told him that he loved Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000351">wanted her,</span>
   <span id="f000352">had to have her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">The quarrel developed.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Marjorie’s husband took to staying in New York until late at night,</span>
   <span id="f000355">came home several times disagreeably overstimulated,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and made her generally miserable.</span>
   <span id="f000357">They must have had too much pride to talk it out – for Marjorie’s husband was,</span>
   <span id="f000358">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000359">pretty decent – so it drifted on from one misunderstanding to another.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Marjorie kept coming more and more to Samuel;</span>
   <span id="f000361">when a woman can accept masculine sympathy at is much more satisfactory to her than crying to another girl.</span>
   <span id="f000362">But Marjorie didn’t realize how much she had begun to rely on him,</span>
   <span id="f000363">how much he was part of her little cosmos.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">One night,</span>
   <span id="f000365">instead of turning away when Marjorie went in and lit the gas,</span>
   <span id="f000366">Samuel went in,</span>
   <span id="f000367">too,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and they sat together on the sofa in the little parlor.</span>
   <span id="f000369">He was very happy.</span>
   <span id="f000370">He envied their home,</span>
   <span id="f000371">and he felt that the man who neglected such a possession out of stubborn pride was a fool and unworthy of his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000372">But when he kissed Marjorie for the first time she cried softly and told him to go.</span>
   <span id="f000373">He sailed home on the wings of desperate excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000374">quite resolved to fan this spark of romance,</span>
   <span id="f000375">no matter how big the blaze or who was burned.</span>
   <span id="f000376">At the time he considered that his thoughts were unselfishly of her;</span>
   <span id="f000377">in a later perspective he knew that she had meant no more than the white screen in a motion picture:</span>
   <span id="f000378">it was just Samuel – blind,</span>
   <span id="f000379">desirous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">Next day at Taine’s,</span>
   <span id="f000381">when they met for lunch,</span>
   <span id="f000382">Samuel dropped all pretense and made frank love to her.</span>
   <span id="f000383">He had no plans,</span>
   <span id="f000384">no definite intentions,</span>
   <span id="f000385">except to kiss her lips again,</span>
   <span id="f000386">to hold her in his arms and feel that she was very little and pathetic and lovable…</span>
   <span id="f000387">He took her home,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and this time they kissed until both their hearts beat high – words and phrases formed on his lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">And then suddenly there were steps on the porch – a hand tried the outside door.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Marjorie turned dead-white.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“Wait!” she whispered to Samuel,</span>
   <span id="f000392">in a frightened voice,</span>
   <span id="f000393">but in angry impatience at the interruption he walked to the front door and threw it open.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">Every one has seen such scenes on the stage – seen them so often that when they actually happen people behave very much like actors.</span>
   <span id="f000395">Samuel felt that he was playing a part and the lines came quite naturally:</span>
   <span id="f000396">he announced that all had a right to lead their own lives and looked at Marjorie’s husband menacingly,</span>
   <span id="f000397">as if daring him to doubt it.</span>
   <span id="f000398">Marjorie’s husband spoke of the sanctity of the home,</span>
   <span id="f000399">forgetting that it hadn’t seemed very holy to him lately;</span>
   <span id="f000400">Samuel continued along the line of “the right to happiness”;</span>
   <span id="f000401">Marjorie’s husband mentioned firearms and the divorce court.</span>
   <span id="f000402">Then suddenly he stopped and scrutinized both of them – Marjorie in pitiful collapse on the sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000403">Samuel haranguing the furniture in a consciously heroic pose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“Go up-stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000405">Marjorie,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000406">in a different tone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“Stay where you are!” Samuel countered quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">Marjorie rose,</span>
   <span id="f000409">wavered,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000411">rose again and moved hesitatingly toward the stairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">“Come outside,” said her husband to Samuel.</span>
   <span id="f000413">“I want to talk to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">Samuel glanced at Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000415">tried to get some message from her eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000416">then he shut his lips and went out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">There was a bright moon and when Marjorie’s husband came down the steps Samuel could see plainly that he was suffering – but he felt no pity for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">They stood and looked at each other,</span>
   <span id="f000419">a few feet apart,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and the husband cleared his throat as though it were a bit husky.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">“That’s my wife,” he said quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and then a wild anger surged up inside him.</span>
   <span id="f000423">“Damn you!” he cried – and hit Samuel in the face with all his strength.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">In that second,</span>
   <span id="f000425">as Samuel slumped to the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000426">it flashed to him that he had been hit like that twice before,</span>
   <span id="f000427">and simultaneously the incident altered like a dream – he felt suddenly awake.</span>
   <span id="f000428">Mechanically he sprang to his feet and squared off.</span>
   <span id="f000429">The other man was waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000430">fists up,</span>
   <span id="f000431">a yard away,</span>
   <span id="f000432">but Samuel knew that though physically he had him by several inches and many pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000433">he wouldn’t hit him.</span>
   <span id="f000434">The situation had miraculously and entirely changed – a moment before Samuel had seemed to himself heroic;</span>
   <span id="f000435">now he seemed the cad,</span>
   <span id="f000436">the outsider,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and Marjorie’s husband,</span>
   <span id="f000438">silhouetted against the lights of the little house,</span>
   <span id="f000439">the eternal heroic figure,</span>
   <span id="f000440">the defender of his home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">There was a pause and then Samuel turned quickly away and went down the path for the last time.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000442">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000443">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000444">after the third blow Samuel put in several weeks at conscientious introspection.</span>
   <span id="f000445">The blow years before at Andover had landed on his personal unpleasantness;</span>
   <span id="f000446">the workman of his college days had jarred the snobbishness out of his system,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and Marjorie’s husband had given a severe jolt to his greedy selfishness.</span>
   <span id="f000448">It threw women out of his ken until a year later,</span>
   <span id="f000449">when he met his future wife;</span>
   <span id="f000450">for the only sort of woman worth while seemed to be the one who could be protected as Marjorie’s husband had protected her.</span>
   <span id="f000451">Samuel could not imagine his grass-widow,</span>
   <span id="f000452">Mrs.&#160;De Ferriac,</span>
   <span id="f000453">causing any very righteous blows on her own account.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">His early thirties found him well on his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000455">He was associated with old Peter Carhart,</span>
   <span id="f000456">who was in those days a national figure.</span>
   <span id="f000457">Carhart’s physique was like a rough model for a statue of Hercules,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and his record was just as solid – a pile made for the pure joy of it,</span>
   <span id="f000459">without cheap extortion or shady scandal.</span>
   <span id="f000460">He had been a great friend of Samuel’s father,</span>
   <span id="f000461">but he watched the son for six years before taking him into his own office.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Heaven knows how many things he controlled at that time – mines,</span>
   <span id="f000463">railroads,</span>
   <span id="f000464">banks,</span>
   <span id="f000465">whole cities.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Samuel was very close to him,</span>
   <span id="f000467">knew his likes and dislikes,</span>
   <span id="f000468">his prejudices,</span>
   <span id="f000469">weaknesses and many strengths.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">One day Carhart sent for Samuel and,</span>
   <span id="f000471">closing the door of his inner office,</span>
   <span id="f000472">offered him a chair and a cigar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“Everything O.</span>
   <span id="f000474">K.,</span>
   <span id="f000475">Samuel?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000477">yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">“I’ve been afraid you’re getting a bit stale.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">“Stale?” Samuel was puzzled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">“You’ve done no work outside the office for nearly ten years?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">“But I’ve had vacations,</span>
   <span id="f000482">in the Adiron – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">Carhart waved this aside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“I mean outside work.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Seeing the things move that we’ve always pulled the strings of here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000486">“No,” admitted Samuel;</span>
   <span id="f000487">“I haven’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“So,” he said abruptly “I’m going to give you an outside job that’ll take about a month.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">Samuel didn’t argue.</span>
   <span id="f000490">He rather liked the idea and he made up his mind that,</span>
   <span id="f000491">whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f000492">he would put it through just as Carhart wanted it.</span>
   <span id="f000493">That was his employer’s greatest hobby,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and the men around him were as dumb under direct orders as infantry subalterns.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“You’ll go to San Antonio and see Hamil,” continued Carhart.</span>
   <span id="f000496">“He’s got a job on hand and he wants a man to take charge.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">Hamil was in charge of the Carhart interests in the Southwest,</span>
   <span id="f000498">a man who had grown up in the shadow of his employer,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and with whom,</span>
   <span id="f000500">though they had never met,</span>
   <span id="f000501">Samuel had had much official correspondence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">“When do I leave?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">“You’d better go to-morrow,” answered Carhart,</span>
   <span id="f000504">glancing at the calendar.</span>
   <span id="f000505">“That’s the 1st of May.</span>
   <span id="f000506">I’ll expect your report here on the 1st of June.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">Next morning Samuel left for Chicago,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and two days later he was facing Hamil across a table in the office of the Merchants’ Trust in San Antonio.</span>
   <span id="f000509">It didn’t take long to get the gist of the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000510">It was a big deal in oil which concerned the buying up of seventeen huge adjoining ranches.</span>
   <span id="f000511">This buying up had to be done in one week,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and it was a pure squeeze.</span>
   <span id="f000513">Forces had been set in motion that put the seventeen owners between the devil and the deep sea,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and Samuel’s part was simply to “handle” the matter from a little village near Pueblo.</span>
   <span id="f000515">With tact and efficiency the right man could bring it off without any friction,</span>
   <span id="f000516">for it was merely a question of sitting at the wheel and keeping a firm hold.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Hamil,</span>
   <span id="f000518">with an astuteness many times valuable to his chief,</span>
   <span id="f000519">had arranged a situation that would give a much greater clear gain than any dealing in the open market.</span>
   <span id="f000520">Samuel shook hands with Hamil,</span>
   <span id="f000521">arranged to return in two weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and left for San Felipe,</span>
   <span id="f000523">New Mexico.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">It occurred to him,</span>
   <span id="f000525">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000526">that Carhart was trying him out.</span>
   <span id="f000527">Hamil’s report on his handling of this might be a factor in something big for him,</span>
   <span id="f000528">but even without that he would have done his best to put the thing through.</span>
   <span id="f000529">Ten years in New York hadn’t made him sentimental and he was quite accustomed to finish everything he began – and a little bit more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">All went well at first.</span>
   <span id="f000531">There was no enthusiasm,</span>
   <span id="f000532">but each one of the seventeen ranchers concerned knew Samuel’s business,</span>
   <span id="f000533">knew what he had behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and that they had as little chance of holding out as flies on a window-pane.</span>
   <span id="f000535">Some of them were resigned – some of them cared like the devil,</span>
   <span id="f000536">but they’d talked it over,</span>
   <span id="f000537">argued it with lawyers and couldn’t see any possible loophole.</span>
   <span id="f000538">Five of the ranches had oil,</span>
   <span id="f000539">the other twelve were part of the chance,</span>
   <span id="f000540">but quite as necessary to Hamil’s purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000541">in any event.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">Samuel soon saw that the real leader was an early settler named McIntyre,</span>
   <span id="f000543">a man of perhaps fifty,</span>
   <span id="f000544">gray-haired,</span>
   <span id="f000545">clean-shaven,</span>
   <span id="f000546">bronzed by forty New Mexico summers,</span>
   <span id="f000547">and with those clear steady eye that Texas and New Mexico weather are apt to give.</span>
   <span id="f000548">His ranch had not as yet shown oil,</span>
   <span id="f000549">but it was in the pool,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and if any man hated to lose his land McIntyre did.</span>
   <span id="f000551">Every one had rather looked to him at first to avert the big calamity,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and he had hunted all over the territory for the legal means with which to do it,</span>
   <span id="f000553">but he had failed,</span>
   <span id="f000554">and he knew it.</span>
   <span id="f000555">He avoided Samuel assiduously,</span>
   <span id="f000556">but Samuel was sure that when the day came for the signatures he would appear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">It came – a baking May day,</span>
   <span id="f000558">with hot wave rising off the parched land as far as eyes could see,</span>
   <span id="f000559">and as Samuel sat stewing in his little improvised office – a few chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000560">a bench,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and a wooden table – he was glad the thing was almost over.</span>
   <span id="f000562">He wanted to get back East the worst way,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and join his wife and children for a week at the seashore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000564">The meeting was set for four o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and he was rather surprised at three-thirty when the door opened and McIntyre came in.</span>
   <span id="f000566">Samuel could not help respecting the man’s attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000567">and feeling a bit sorry for him.</span>
   <span id="f000568">McIntyre seemed closely related to the prairies,</span>
   <span id="f000569">and Samuel had the little flicker of envy that city people feel toward men who live in the open.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">“Afternoon,” said McIntyre,</span>
   <span id="f000571">standing in the open doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000572">with his feet apart and his hands on his hips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000573">“Hello,</span>
   <span id="f000574">Mr.&#160;McIntyre.” Samuel rose,</span>
   <span id="f000575">but omitted the formality of offering his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000576">He imagined the rancher cordially loathed him,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and he hardly blamed him.</span>
   <span id="f000578">McIntyre came in and sat down leisurely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">“You got us,” he said suddenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">This didn’t seem to require any answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">“When I heard Carhart was back of this,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000582">“I gave up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“Mr.&#160;Carhart is – ” began Samuel,</span>
   <span id="f000584">but McIntyre waved him silent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">“Don’t talk about the dirty sneak-thief!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“Mr.&#160;McIntyre,” said Samuel briskly,</span>
   <span id="f000587">“if this half-hour is to be devoted to that sort of talk – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000589">dry up,</span>
   <span id="f000590">young man,” McIntyre interrupted,</span>
   <span id="f000591">“you can’t abuse a man who’d do a thing like this.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">Samuel made no answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">“It’s simply a dirty filch.</span>
   <span id="f000594">There just ARE skunks like him too big to handle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">“You’re being paid liberally,” offered Samuel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">“Shut up!” roared McIntyre suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f000597">“I want the privilege of talking.” He walked to the door and looked out across the land,</span>
   <span id="f000598">the sunny,</span>
   <span id="f000599">steaming pasturage that began almost at his feet and ended with the gray-green of the distant mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000600">When he turned around his mouth was trembling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000601">“Do you fellows love Wall Street?” he said hoarsely,</span>
   <span id="f000602">“or wherever you do your dirty scheming – ” He paused.</span>
   <span id="f000603">“I suppose you do.</span>
   <span id="f000604">No critter gets so low that he doesn’t sort of love the place he’s worked,</span>
   <span id="f000605">where he’s sweated out the best he’s had in him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">Samuel watched him awkwardly.</span>
   <span id="f000607">McIntyre wiped his forehead with a huge blue handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and continued:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">“I reckon this rotten old devil had to have another million.</span>
   <span id="f000610">I reckon we’re just a few of the poor he’s blotted out to buy a couple more carriages or something.” He waved his hand toward the door.</span>
   <span id="f000611">“I built a house out there when I was seventeen,</span>
   <span id="f000612">with these two hands.</span>
   <span id="f000613">I took a wife there at twenty-one,</span>
   <span id="f000614">added two wings,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and with four mangy steers I started out.</span>
   <span id="f000616">Forty summers I’ve saw the sun come up over those mountains and drop down red as blood in the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000617">before the heat drifted off and the stars came out.</span>
   <span id="f000618">I been happy in that house.</span>
   <span id="f000619">My boy was born there and he died there,</span>
   <span id="f000620">late one spring,</span>
   <span id="f000621">in the hottest part of an afternoon like this.</span>
   <span id="f000622">Then the wife and I lived there alone like we’d lived before,</span>
   <span id="f000623">and sort of tried to have a home,</span>
   <span id="f000624">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000625">not a real home but nigh it – cause the boy always seemed around close,</span>
   <span id="f000626">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000627">and we expected a lot of nights to see him runnin’ up the path to supper.” His voice was shaking so he could hardly speak and he turned again to the door,</span>
   <span id="f000628">his gray eyes contracted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">“That’s my land out there,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000630">stretching out his arm,</span>
   <span id="f000631">“my land,</span>
   <span id="f000632">by God – It’s all I got in the world – and ever wanted.” He dashed his sleeve across his face,</span>
   <span id="f000633">and his tone changed as he turned slowly and faced Samuel.</span>
   <span id="f000634">“But I suppose it’s got to go when they want it – it’s got to go.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">Samuel had to talk.</span>
   <span id="f000636">He felt that in a minute more he would lose his head.</span>
   <span id="f000637">So he began,</span>
   <span id="f000638">as level-voiced as he could – in the sort of tone he saved for disagreeable duties.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">“It’s business,</span>
   <span id="f000640">Mr.&#160;McIntyre,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000641">“It’s inside the law.</span>
   <span id="f000642">Perhaps we couldn’t have bought out two or three of you at any price,</span>
   <span id="f000643">but most of you did have a price.</span>
   <span id="f000644">Progress demands some things – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">Never had he felt so inadequate,</span>
   <span id="f000646">and it was with the greatest relief that he heard hoof-beats a few hundred yards away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">But at his words the grief in McIntyre’s eyes had changed to fury.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">“You and your dirty gang of crooks!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000649">“Not one of you has got an honest love for anything on God’s earth!</span>
   <span id="f000650">You’re a herd of money-swine!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">Samuel rose and McIntyre took a step toward him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">“You long-winded dude.</span>
   <span id="f000653">You got our land – take that for Peter Carhart!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">He swung from the shoulder quick as lightning and down went Samuel in a heap.</span>
   <span id="f000655">Dimly he heard steps in the doorway and knew that some one was holding McIntyre,</span>
   <span id="f000656">but there was no need.</span>
   <span id="f000657">The rancher had sunk down in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000658">and dropped his head in his hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">Samuel’s brain was whirring.</span>
   <span id="f000660">He realized that the fourth fist had hit him,</span>
   <span id="f000661">and a great flood of emotion cried out that the law that had inexorably ruled his life was in motion again.</span>
   <span id="f000662">In a half-daze he got up and strode from the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">The next ten minutes were perhaps the hardest of his life.</span>
   <span id="f000664">People talk of the courage of convictions,</span>
   <span id="f000665">but in actual life a man’s duty to his family may make a rigid corpse seem a selfish indulgence of his own righteousness.</span>
   <span id="f000666">Samuel thought mostly of his family,</span>
   <span id="f000667">yet he never really wavered.</span>
   <span id="f000668">That jolt had brought him to.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">When he came back in the room there were a log of worried faces waiting for him,</span>
   <span id="f000670">but he didn’t waste any time explaining.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">“Gentlemen,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000672">“Mr.&#160;McIntyre has been kind enough to convince me that in this matter you are absolutely right and the Peter Carhart interests absolutely wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000673">As far as I am concerned you can keep your ranches to the rest of your days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">He pushed his way through an astounded gathering,</span>
   <span id="f000675">and within a half-hour he had sent two telegrams that staggered the operator into complete unfitness for business;</span>
   <span id="f000676">one was to Hamil in San Antonio;</span>
   <span id="f000677">one was to Peter Carhart in New York.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">Samuel didn’t sleep much that night.</span>
   <span id="f000679">He knew that for the first time in his business career he had made a dismal,</span>
   <span id="f000680">miserable failure.</span>
   <span id="f000681">But some instinct in him,</span>
   <span id="f000682">stronger than will,</span>
   <span id="f000683">deeper than training,</span>
   <span id="f000684">had forced him to do what would probably end his ambitions and his happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000685">But it was done and it never occurred to him that he could have acted otherwise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">Next morning two telegrams were waiting for him.</span>
   <span id="f000687">The first was from Hamil.</span>
   <span id="f000688">It contained three words:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000689">“You blamed idiot!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">The second was from New York:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">“Deal off come to New York immediately Carhart.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">Within a week things had happened.</span>
   <span id="f000693">Hamil quarrelled furiously and violently defended his scheme.</span>
   <span id="f000694">He was summoned to New York and spent a bad half-hour on the carpet in Peter Carhart’s office.</span>
   <span id="f000695">He broke with the Carhart interests in July,</span>
   <span id="f000696">and in August Samuel Meredith,</span>
   <span id="f000697">at thirty-five years old,</span>
   <span id="f000698">was,</span>
   <span id="f000699">to all intents,</span>
   <span id="f000700">made Carhart’s partner.</span>
   <span id="f000701">The fourth fist had done its work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">I suppose that there’s a caddish streak in every man that runs crosswise across his character and disposition and general outlook.</span>
   <span id="f000703">With some men it’s secret and we never know it’s there until they strike us in the dark one night.</span>
   <span id="f000704">But Samuel’s showed when it was in action,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and the sight of it made people see red.</span>
   <span id="f000706">He was rather lucky in that,</span>
   <span id="f000707">because every time his little devil came up it met a reception that sent it scurrying down below in a sickly,</span>
   <span id="f000708">feeble condition.</span>
   <span id="f000709">It was the same devil,</span>
   <span id="f000710">the same streak that made him order Gilly’s friends off the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000711">that made him go inside Marjorie’s house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">If you could run your hand along Samuel Meredith’s jaw you’d feel a lump.</span>
   <span id="f000713">He admits he’s never been sure which fist left it there,</span>
   <span id="f000714">but he wouldn’t lose it for anything.</span>
   <span id="f000715">He says there’s no cad like an old cad,</span>
   <span id="f000716">and that sometimes just before making a decision,</span>
   <span id="f000717">it’s a great help to stroke his chin.</span>
   <span id="f000718">The reporters call it a nervous characteristic,</span>
   <span id="f000719">but it’s not that.</span>
   <span id="f000720">It’s so he can feel again the gorgeous clarity,</span>
   <span id="f000721">the lightning sanity of those four fists.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

