<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Bob Neufeld</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">To Build a Fire</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Jack London</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Day had broken cold and grey,</span>
   <span id="f000008">exceedingly cold and grey,</span>
   <span id="f000009">when the man turned aside from the main Yukon trail and climbed the high earth-bank,</span>
   <span id="f000010">where a dim and little-travelled trail led eastward through the fat spruce timberland.</span>
   <span id="f000011">It was a steep bank,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and he paused for breath at the top,</span>
   <span id="f000013">excusing the act to himself by looking at his watch.</span>
   <span id="f000014">It was nine o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000015">There was no sun nor hint of sun,</span>
   <span id="f000016">though there was not a cloud in the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000017">It was a clear day,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and yet there seemed an intangible pall over the face of things,</span>
   <span id="f000019">a subtle gloom that made the day dark,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and that was due to the absence of sun.</span>
   <span id="f000021">This fact did not worry the man.</span>
   <span id="f000022">He was used to the lack of sun.</span>
   <span id="f000023">It had been days since he had seen the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and he knew that a few more days must pass before that cheerful orb,</span>
   <span id="f000025">due south,</span>
   <span id="f000026">would just peep above the sky-line and dip immediately from view.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">The man flung a look back along the way he had come.</span>
   <span id="f000028">The Yukon lay a mile wide and hidden under three feet of ice.</span>
   <span id="f000029">On top of this ice were as many feet of snow.</span>
   <span id="f000030">It was all pure white,</span>
   <span id="f000031">rolling in gentle undulations where the ice-jams of the freeze-up had formed.</span>
   <span id="f000032">North and south,</span>
   <span id="f000033">as far as his eye could see,</span>
   <span id="f000034">it was unbroken white,</span>
   <span id="f000035">save for a dark hair-line that curved and twisted from around the spruce-covered island to the south,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and that curved and twisted away into the north,</span>
   <span id="f000037">where it disappeared behind another spruce-covered island.</span>
   <span id="f000038">This dark hair-line was the trail—the main trail—that led south five hundred miles to the Chilcoot Pass,</span>
   <span id="f000039">Dyea,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and salt water;</span>
   <span id="f000041">and that led north seventy miles to Dawson,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and still on to the north a thousand miles to Nulato,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and finally to St.&#160;Michael on Bering Sea,</span>
   <span id="f000044">a thousand miles and half a thousand more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">But all this—the mysterious,</span>
   <span id="f000046">far-reaching hairline trail,</span>
   <span id="f000047">the absence of sun from the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000048">the tremendous cold,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and the strangeness and weirdness of it all—made no impression on the man.</span>
   <span id="f000050">It was not because he was long used to it.</span>
   <span id="f000051">He was a new-comer in the land,</span>
   <span id="f000052">a <em>chechaquo</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and this was his first winter.</span>
   <span id="f000054">The trouble with him was that he was without imagination.</span>
   <span id="f000055">He was quick and alert in the things of life,</span>
   <span id="f000056">but only in the things,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and not in the significances.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Fifty degrees below zero meant eighty odd degrees of frost.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Such fact impressed him as being cold and uncomfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and that was all.</span>
   <span id="f000061">It did not lead him to meditate upon his frailty as a creature of temperature,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and upon man’s frailty in general,</span>
   <span id="f000063">able only to live within certain narrow limits of heat and cold;</span>
   <span id="f000064">and from there on it did not lead him to the conjectural field of immortality and man’s place in the universe.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Fifty degrees below zero stood for a bite of frost that hurt and that must be guarded against by the use of mittens,</span>
   <span id="f000066">ear-flaps,</span>
   <span id="f000067">warm moccasins,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and thick socks.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Fifty degrees below zero was to him just precisely fifty degrees below zero.</span>
   <span id="f000070">That there should be anything more to it than that was a thought that never entered his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">As he turned to go on,</span>
   <span id="f000072">he spat speculatively.</span>
   <span id="f000073">There was a sharp,</span>
   <span id="f000074">explosive crackle that startled him.</span>
   <span id="f000075">He spat again.</span>
   <span id="f000076">And again,</span>
   <span id="f000077">in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000078">before it could fall to the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000079">the spittle crackled.</span>
   <span id="f000080">He knew that at fifty below spittle crackled on the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000081">but this spittle had crackled in the air.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Undoubtedly it was colder than fifty below—how much colder he did not know.</span>
   <span id="f000083">But the temperature did not matter.</span>
   <span id="f000084">He was bound for the old claim on the left fork of Henderson Creek,</span>
   <span id="f000085">where the boys were already.</span>
   <span id="f000086">They had come over across the divide from the Indian Creek country,</span>
   <span id="f000087">while he had come the roundabout way to take a look at the possibilities of getting out logs in the spring from the islands in the Yukon.</span>
   <span id="f000088">He would be in to camp by six o’clock;</span>
   <span id="f000089">a bit after dark,</span>
   <span id="f000090">it was true,</span>
   <span id="f000091">but the boys would be there,</span>
   <span id="f000092">a fire would be going,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and a hot supper would be ready.</span>
   <span id="f000094">As for lunch,</span>
   <span id="f000095">he pressed his hand against the protruding bundle under his jacket.</span>
   <span id="f000096">It was also under his shirt,</span>
   <span id="f000097">wrapped up in a handkerchief and lying against the naked skin.</span>
   <span id="f000098">It was the only way to keep the biscuits from freezing.</span>
   <span id="f000099">He smiled agreeably to himself as he thought of those biscuits,</span>
   <span id="f000100">each cut open and sopped in bacon grease,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and each enclosing a generous slice of fried bacon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">He plunged in among the big spruce trees.</span>
   <span id="f000103">The trail was faint.</span>
   <span id="f000104">A foot of snow had fallen since the last sled had passed over,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and he was glad he was without a sled,</span>
   <span id="f000106">travelling light.</span>
   <span id="f000107">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000108">he carried nothing but the lunch wrapped in the handkerchief.</span>
   <span id="f000109">He was surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000110">however,</span>
   <span id="f000111">at the cold.</span>
   <span id="f000112">It certainly was cold,</span>
   <span id="f000113">he concluded,</span>
   <span id="f000114">as he rubbed his numbed nose and cheek-bones with his mittened hand.</span>
   <span id="f000115">He was a warm-whiskered man,</span>
   <span id="f000116">but the hair on his face did not protect the high cheek-bones and the eager nose that thrust itself aggressively into the frosty air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">At the man’s heels trotted a dog,</span>
   <span id="f000118">a big native husky,</span>
   <span id="f000119">the proper wolf-dog,</span>
   <span id="f000120">grey-coated and without any visible or temperamental difference from its brother,</span>
   <span id="f000121">the wild wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000122">The animal was depressed by the tremendous cold.</span>
   <span id="f000123">It knew that it was no time for travelling.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Its instinct told it a truer tale than was told to the man by the man’s judgment.</span>
   <span id="f000125">In reality,</span>
   <span id="f000126">it was not merely colder than fifty below zero;</span>
   <span id="f000127">it was colder than sixty below,</span>
   <span id="f000128">than seventy below.</span>
   <span id="f000129">It was seventy-five below zero.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Since the freezing-point is thirty-two above zero,</span>
   <span id="f000131">it meant that one hundred and seven degrees of frost obtained.</span>
   <span id="f000132">The dog did not know anything about thermometers.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Possibly in its brain there was no sharp consciousness of a condition of very cold such as was in the man’s brain.</span>
   <span id="f000134">But the brute had its instinct.</span>
   <span id="f000135">It experienced a vague but menacing apprehension that subdued it and made it slink along at the man’s heels,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and that made it question eagerly every unwonted movement of the man as if expecting him to go into camp or to seek shelter somewhere and build a fire.</span>
   <span id="f000137">The dog had learned fire,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and it wanted fire,</span>
   <span id="f000139">or else to burrow under the snow and cuddle its warmth away from the air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">The frozen moisture of its breathing had settled on its fur in a fine powder of frost,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and especially were its jowls,</span>
   <span id="f000142">muzzle,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and eyelashes whitened by its crystalled breath.</span>
   <span id="f000144">The man’s red beard and moustache were likewise frosted,</span>
   <span id="f000145">but more solidly,</span>
   <span id="f000146">the deposit taking the form of ice and increasing with every warm,</span>
   <span id="f000147">moist breath he exhaled.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000149">the man was chewing tobacco,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and the muzzle of ice held his lips so rigidly that he was unable to clear his chin when he expelled the juice.</span>
   <span id="f000151">The result was that a crystal beard of the colour and solidity of amber was increasing its length on his chin.</span>
   <span id="f000152">If he fell down it would shatter itself,</span>
   <span id="f000153">like glass,</span>
   <span id="f000154">into brittle fragments.</span>
   <span id="f000155">But he did not mind the appendage.</span>
   <span id="f000156">It was the penalty all tobacco-chewers paid in that country,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and he had been out before in two cold snaps.</span>
   <span id="f000158">They had not been so cold as this,</span>
   <span id="f000159">he knew,</span>
   <span id="f000160">but by the spirit thermometer at Sixty Mile he knew they had been registered at fifty below and at fifty-five.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">He held on through the level stretch of woods for several miles,</span>
   <span id="f000162">crossed a wide flat of nigger-heads,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and dropped down a bank to the frozen bed of a small stream.</span>
   <span id="f000164">This was Henderson Creek,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and he knew he was ten miles from the forks.</span>
   <span id="f000166">He looked at his watch.</span>
   <span id="f000167">It was ten o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000168">He was making four miles an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and he calculated that he would arrive at the forks at half-past twelve.</span>
   <span id="f000170">He decided to celebrate that event by eating his lunch there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">The dog dropped in again at his heels,</span>
   <span id="f000172">with a tail drooping discouragement,</span>
   <span id="f000173">as the man swung along the creek-bed.</span>
   <span id="f000174">The furrow of the old sled-trail was plainly visible,</span>
   <span id="f000175">but a dozen inches of snow covered the marks of the last runners.</span>
   <span id="f000176">In a month no man had come up or down that silent creek.</span>
   <span id="f000177">The man held steadily on.</span>
   <span id="f000178">He was not much given to thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and just then particularly he had nothing to think about save that he would eat lunch at the forks and that at six o’clock he would be in camp with the boys.</span>
   <span id="f000180">There was nobody to talk to and,</span>
   <span id="f000181">had there been,</span>
   <span id="f000182">speech would have been impossible because of the ice-muzzle on his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000183">So he continued monotonously to chew tobacco and to increase the length of his amber beard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">Once in a while the thought reiterated itself that it was very cold and that he had never experienced such cold.</span>
   <span id="f000185">As he walked along he rubbed his cheek-bones and nose with the back of his mittened hand.</span>
   <span id="f000186">He did this automatically,</span>
   <span id="f000187">now and again changing hands.</span>
   <span id="f000188">But rub as he would,</span>
   <span id="f000189">the instant he stopped his cheek-bones went numb,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and the following instant the end of his nose went numb.</span>
   <span id="f000191">He was sure to frost his cheeks;</span>
   <span id="f000192">he knew that,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and experienced a pang of regret that he had not devised a nose-strap of the sort Bud wore in cold snaps.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Such a strap passed across the cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000195">as well,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and saved them.</span>
   <span id="f000197">But it didn’t matter much,</span>
   <span id="f000198">after all.</span>
   <span id="f000199">What were frosted cheeks?</span>
   <span id="f000200">A bit painful,</span>
   <span id="f000201">that was all;</span>
   <span id="f000202">they were never serious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">Empty as the man’s mind was of thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000204">he was keenly observant,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and he noticed the changes in the creek,</span>
   <span id="f000206">the curves and bends and timber-jams,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and always he sharply noted where he placed his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000208">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000209">coming around a bend,</span>
   <span id="f000210">he shied abruptly,</span>
   <span id="f000211">like a startled horse,</span>
   <span id="f000212">curved away from the place where he had been walking,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and retreated several paces back along the trail.</span>
   <span id="f000214">The creek he knew was frozen clear to the bottom—no creek could contain water in that arctic winter—but he knew also that there were springs that bubbled out from the hillsides and ran along under the snow and on top the ice of the creek.</span>
   <span id="f000215">He knew that the coldest snaps never froze these springs,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and he knew likewise their danger.</span>
   <span id="f000217">They were traps.</span>
   <span id="f000218">They hid pools of water under the snow that might be three inches deep,</span>
   <span id="f000219">or three feet.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Sometimes a skin of ice half an inch thick covered them,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and in turn was covered by the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Sometimes there were alternate layers of water and ice-skin,</span>
   <span id="f000223">so that when one broke through he kept on breaking through for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000224">sometimes wetting himself to the waist.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">That was why he had shied in such panic.</span>
   <span id="f000226">He had felt the give under his feet and heard the crackle of a snow-hidden ice-skin.</span>
   <span id="f000227">And to get his feet wet in such a temperature meant trouble and danger.</span>
   <span id="f000228">At the very least it meant delay,</span>
   <span id="f000229">for he would be forced to stop and build a fire,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and under its protection to bare his feet while he dried his socks and moccasins.</span>
   <span id="f000231">He stood and studied the creek-bed and its banks,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and decided that the flow of water came from the right.</span>
   <span id="f000233">He reflected awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000234">rubbing his nose and cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000235">then skirted to the left,</span>
   <span id="f000236">stepping gingerly and testing the footing for each step.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Once clear of the danger,</span>
   <span id="f000238">he took a fresh chew of tobacco and swung along at his four-mile gait.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">In the course of the next two hours he came upon several similar traps.</span>
   <span id="f000240">Usually the snow above the hidden pools had a sunken,</span>
   <span id="f000241">candied appearance that advertised the danger.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Once again,</span>
   <span id="f000243">however,</span>
   <span id="f000244">he had a close call;</span>
   <span id="f000245">and once,</span>
   <span id="f000246">suspecting danger,</span>
   <span id="f000247">he compelled the dog to go on in front.</span>
   <span id="f000248">The dog did not want to go.</span>
   <span id="f000249">It hung back until the man shoved it forward,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and then it went quickly across the white,</span>
   <span id="f000251">unbroken surface.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Suddenly it broke through,</span>
   <span id="f000253">floundered to one side,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and got away to firmer footing.</span>
   <span id="f000255">It had wet its forefeet and legs,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and almost immediately the water that clung to it turned to ice.</span>
   <span id="f000257">It made quick efforts to lick the ice off its legs,</span>
   <span id="f000258">then dropped down in the snow and began to bite out the ice that had formed between the toes.</span>
   <span id="f000259">This was a matter of instinct.</span>
   <span id="f000260">To permit the ice to remain would mean sore feet.</span>
   <span id="f000261">It did not know this.</span>
   <span id="f000262">It merely obeyed the mysterious prompting that arose from the deep crypts of its being.</span>
   <span id="f000263">But the man knew,</span>
   <span id="f000264">having achieved a judgment on the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and he removed the mitten from his right hand and helped tear out the ice-particles.</span>
   <span id="f000266">He did not expose his fingers more than a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and was astonished at the swift numbness that smote them.</span>
   <span id="f000268">It certainly was cold.</span>
   <span id="f000269">He pulled on the mitten hastily,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and beat the hand savagely across his chest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">At twelve o’clock the day was at its brightest.</span>
   <span id="f000272">Yet the sun was too far south on its winter journey to clear the horizon.</span>
   <span id="f000273">The bulge of the earth intervened between it and Henderson Creek,</span>
   <span id="f000274">where the man walked under a clear sky at noon and cast no shadow.</span>
   <span id="f000275">At half-past twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000276">to the minute,</span>
   <span id="f000277">he arrived at the forks of the creek.</span>
   <span id="f000278">He was pleased at the speed he had made.</span>
   <span id="f000279">If he kept it up,</span>
   <span id="f000280">he would certainly be with the boys by six.</span>
   <span id="f000281">He unbuttoned his jacket and shirt and drew forth his lunch.</span>
   <span id="f000282">The action consumed no more than a quarter of a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000283">yet in that brief moment the numbness laid hold of the exposed fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000284">He did not put the mitten on,</span>
   <span id="f000285">but,</span>
   <span id="f000286">instead,</span>
   <span id="f000287">struck the fingers a dozen sharp smashes against his leg.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Then he sat down on a snow-covered log to eat.</span>
   <span id="f000289">The sting that followed upon the striking of his fingers against his leg ceased so quickly that he was startled,</span>
   <span id="f000290">he had had no chance to take a bite of biscuit.</span>
   <span id="f000291">He struck the fingers repeatedly and returned them to the mitten,</span>
   <span id="f000292">baring the other hand for the purpose of eating.</span>
   <span id="f000293">He tried to take a mouthful,</span>
   <span id="f000294">but the ice-muzzle prevented.</span>
   <span id="f000295">He had forgotten to build a fire and thaw out.</span>
   <span id="f000296">He chuckled at his foolishness,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and as he chuckled he noted the numbness creeping into the exposed fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000299">he noted that the stinging which had first come to his toes when he sat down was already passing away.</span>
   <span id="f000300">He wondered whether the toes were warm or numbed.</span>
   <span id="f000301">He moved them inside the moccasins and decided that they were numbed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">He pulled the mitten on hurriedly and stood up.</span>
   <span id="f000303">He was a bit frightened.</span>
   <span id="f000304">He stamped up and down until the stinging returned into the feet.</span>
   <span id="f000305">It certainly was cold,</span>
   <span id="f000306">was his thought.</span>
   <span id="f000307">That man from Sulphur Creek had spoken the truth when telling how cold it sometimes got in the country.</span>
   <span id="f000308">And he had laughed at him at the time!</span>
   <span id="f000309">That showed one must not be too sure of things.</span>
   <span id="f000310">There was no mistake about it,</span>
   <span id="f000311">it was cold.</span>
   <span id="f000312">He strode up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000313">stamping his feet and threshing his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000314">until reassured by the returning warmth.</span>
   <span id="f000315">Then he got out matches and proceeded to make a fire.</span>
   <span id="f000316">From the undergrowth,</span>
   <span id="f000317">where high water of the previous spring had lodged a supply of seasoned twigs,</span>
   <span id="f000318">he got his firewood.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Working carefully from a small beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000320">he soon had a roaring fire,</span>
   <span id="f000321">over which he thawed the ice from his face and in the protection of which he ate his biscuits.</span>
   <span id="f000322">For the moment the cold of space was outwitted.</span>
   <span id="f000323">The dog took satisfaction in the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000324">stretching out close enough for warmth and far enough away to escape being singed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">When the man had finished,</span>
   <span id="f000326">he filled his pipe and took his comfortable time over a smoke.</span>
   <span id="f000327">Then he pulled on his mittens,</span>
   <span id="f000328">settled the ear-flaps of his cap firmly about his ears,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and took the creek trail up the left fork.</span>
   <span id="f000330">The dog was disappointed and yearned back toward the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000331">This man did not know cold.</span>
   <span id="f000332">Possibly all the generations of his ancestry had been ignorant of cold,</span>
   <span id="f000333">of real cold,</span>
   <span id="f000334">of cold one hundred and seven degrees below freezing-point.</span>
   <span id="f000335">But the dog knew;</span>
   <span id="f000336">all its ancestry knew,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and it had inherited the knowledge.</span>
   <span id="f000338">And it knew that it was not good to walk abroad in such fearful cold.</span>
   <span id="f000339">It was the time to lie snug in a hole in the snow and wait for a curtain of cloud to be drawn across the face of outer space whence this cold came.</span>
   <span id="f000340">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000341">there was keen intimacy between the dog and the man.</span>
   <span id="f000342">The one was the toil-slave of the other,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and the only caresses it had ever received were the caresses of the whip-lash and of harsh and menacing throat-sounds that threatened the whip-lash.</span>
   <span id="f000344">So the dog made no effort to communicate its apprehension to the man.</span>
   <span id="f000345">It was not concerned in the welfare of the man;</span>
   <span id="f000346">it was for its own sake that it yearned back toward the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000347">But the man whistled,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and spoke to it with the sound of whip-lashes,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and the dog swung in at the man’s heels and followed after.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">The man took a chew of tobacco and proceeded to start a new amber beard.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000352">his moist breath quickly powdered with white his moustache,</span>
   <span id="f000353">eyebrows,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and lashes.</span>
   <span id="f000355">There did not seem to be so many springs on the left fork of the Henderson,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and for half an hour the man saw no signs of any.</span>
   <span id="f000357">And then it happened.</span>
   <span id="f000358">At a place where there were no signs,</span>
   <span id="f000359">where the soft,</span>
   <span id="f000360">unbroken snow seemed to advertise solidity beneath,</span>
   <span id="f000361">the man broke through.</span>
   <span id="f000362">It was not deep.</span>
   <span id="f000363">He wetted himself half-way to the knees before he floundered out to the firm crust.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">He was angry,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and cursed his luck aloud.</span>
   <span id="f000366">He had hoped to get into camp with the boys at six o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and this would delay him an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000368">for he would have to build a fire and dry out his foot-gear.</span>
   <span id="f000369">This was imperative at that low temperature—he knew that much;</span>
   <span id="f000370">and he turned aside to the bank,</span>
   <span id="f000371">which he climbed.</span>
   <span id="f000372">On top,</span>
   <span id="f000373">tangled in the underbrush about the trunks of several small spruce trees,</span>
   <span id="f000374">was a high-water deposit of dry firewood—sticks and twigs principally,</span>
   <span id="f000375">but also larger portions of seasoned branches and fine,</span>
   <span id="f000376">dry,</span>
   <span id="f000377">last-year’s grasses.</span>
   <span id="f000378">He threw down several large pieces on top of the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000379">This served for a foundation and prevented the young flame from drowning itself in the snow it otherwise would melt.</span>
   <span id="f000380">The flame he got by touching a match to a small shred of birch-bark that he took from his pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000381">This burned even more readily than paper.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Placing it on the foundation,</span>
   <span id="f000383">he fed the young flame with wisps of dry grass and with the tiniest dry twigs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">He worked slowly and carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000385">keenly aware of his danger.</span>
   <span id="f000386">Gradually,</span>
   <span id="f000387">as the flame grew stronger,</span>
   <span id="f000388">he increased the size of the twigs with which he fed it.</span>
   <span id="f000389">He squatted in the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000390">pulling the twigs out from their entanglement in the brush and feeding directly to the flame.</span>
   <span id="f000391">He knew there must be no failure.</span>
   <span id="f000392">When it is seventy-five below zero,</span>
   <span id="f000393">a man must not fail in his first attempt to build a fire—that is,</span>
   <span id="f000394">if his feet are wet.</span>
   <span id="f000395">If his feet are dry,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and he fails,</span>
   <span id="f000397">he can run along the trail for half a mile and restore his circulation.</span>
   <span id="f000398">But the circulation of wet and freezing feet cannot be restored by running when it is seventy-five below.</span>
   <span id="f000399">No matter how fast he runs,</span>
   <span id="f000400">the wet feet will freeze the harder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">All this the man knew.</span>
   <span id="f000402">The old-timer on Sulphur Creek had told him about it the previous fall,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and now he was appreciating the advice.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Already all sensation had gone out of his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000405">To build the fire he had been forced to remove his mittens,</span>
   <span id="f000406">and the fingers had quickly gone numb.</span>
   <span id="f000407">His pace of four miles an hour had kept his heart pumping blood to the surface of his body and to all the extremities.</span>
   <span id="f000408">But the instant he stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000409">the action of the pump eased down.</span>
   <span id="f000410">The cold of space smote the unprotected tip of the planet,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and he,</span>
   <span id="f000412">being on that unprotected tip,</span>
   <span id="f000413">received the full force of the blow.</span>
   <span id="f000414">The blood of his body recoiled before it.</span>
   <span id="f000415">The blood was alive,</span>
   <span id="f000416">like the dog,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and like the dog it wanted to hide away and cover itself up from the fearful cold.</span>
   <span id="f000418">So long as he walked four miles an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000419">he pumped that blood,</span>
   <span id="f000420">willy-nilly,</span>
   <span id="f000421">to the surface;</span>
   <span id="f000422">but now it ebbed away and sank down into the recesses of his body.</span>
   <span id="f000423">The extremities were the first to feel its absence.</span>
   <span id="f000424">His wet feet froze the faster,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and his exposed fingers numbed the faster,</span>
   <span id="f000426">though they had not yet begun to freeze.</span>
   <span id="f000427">Nose and cheeks were already freezing,</span>
   <span id="f000428">while the skin of all his body chilled as it lost its blood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">But he was safe.</span>
   <span id="f000430">Toes and nose and cheeks would be only touched by the frost,</span>
   <span id="f000431">for the fire was beginning to burn with strength.</span>
   <span id="f000432">He was feeding it with twigs the size of his finger.</span>
   <span id="f000433">In another minute he would be able to feed it with branches the size of his wrist,</span>
   <span id="f000434">and then he could remove his wet foot-gear,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and,</span>
   <span id="f000436">while it dried,</span>
   <span id="f000437">he could keep his naked feet warm by the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000438">rubbing them at first,</span>
   <span id="f000439">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000440">with snow.</span>
   <span id="f000441">The fire was a success.</span>
   <span id="f000442">He was safe.</span>
   <span id="f000443">He remembered the advice of the old-timer on Sulphur Creek,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and smiled.</span>
   <span id="f000445">The old-timer had been very serious in laying down the law that no man must travel alone in the Klondike after fifty below.</span>
   <span id="f000446">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000447">here he was;</span>
   <span id="f000448">he had had the accident;</span>
   <span id="f000449">he was alone;</span>
   <span id="f000450">and he had saved himself.</span>
   <span id="f000451">Those old-timers were rather womanish,</span>
   <span id="f000452">some of them,</span>
   <span id="f000453">he thought.</span>
   <span id="f000454">All a man had to do was to keep his head,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and he was all right.</span>
   <span id="f000456">Any man who was a man could travel alone.</span>
   <span id="f000457">But it was surprising,</span>
   <span id="f000458">the rapidity with which his cheeks and nose were freezing.</span>
   <span id="f000459">And he had not thought his fingers could go lifeless in so short a time.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Lifeless they were,</span>
   <span id="f000461">for he could scarcely make them move together to grip a twig,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and they seemed remote from his body and from him.</span>
   <span id="f000463">When he touched a twig,</span>
   <span id="f000464">he had to look and see whether or not he had hold of it.</span>
   <span id="f000465">The wires were pretty well down between him and his finger-ends.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">All of which counted for little.</span>
   <span id="f000467">There was the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000468">snapping and crackling and promising life with every dancing flame.</span>
   <span id="f000469">He started to untie his moccasins.</span>
   <span id="f000470">They were coated with ice;</span>
   <span id="f000471">the thick German socks were like sheaths of iron half-way to the knees;</span>
   <span id="f000472">and the mocassin strings were like rods of steel all twisted and knotted as by some conflagration.</span>
   <span id="f000473">For a moment he tugged with his numbed fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000474">then,</span>
   <span id="f000475">realizing the folly of it,</span>
   <span id="f000476">he drew his sheath-knife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">But before he could cut the strings,</span>
   <span id="f000478">it happened.</span>
   <span id="f000479">It was his own fault or,</span>
   <span id="f000480">rather,</span>
   <span id="f000481">his mistake.</span>
   <span id="f000482">He should not have built the fire under the spruce tree.</span>
   <span id="f000483">He should have built it in the open.</span>
   <span id="f000484">But it had been easier to pull the twigs from the brush and drop them directly on the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Now the tree under which he had done this carried a weight of snow on its boughs.</span>
   <span id="f000486">No wind had blown for weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and each bough was fully freighted.</span>
   <span id="f000488">Each time he had pulled a twig he had communicated a slight agitation to the tree—an imperceptible agitation,</span>
   <span id="f000489">so far as he was concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000490">but an agitation sufficient to bring about the disaster.</span>
   <span id="f000491">High up in the tree one bough capsized its load of snow.</span>
   <span id="f000492">This fell on the boughs beneath,</span>
   <span id="f000493">capsizing them.</span>
   <span id="f000494">This process continued,</span>
   <span id="f000495">spreading out and involving the whole tree.</span>
   <span id="f000496">It grew like an avalanche,</span>
   <span id="f000497">and it descended without warning upon the man and the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and the fire was blotted out!</span>
   <span id="f000499">Where it had burned was a mantle of fresh and disordered snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000500">The man was shocked.</span>
   <span id="f000501">It was as though he had just heard his own sentence of death.</span>
   <span id="f000502">For a moment he sat and stared at the spot where the fire had been.</span>
   <span id="f000503">Then he grew very calm.</span>
   <span id="f000504">Perhaps the old-timer on Sulphur Creek was right.</span>
   <span id="f000505">If he had only had a trail-mate he would have been in no danger now.</span>
   <span id="f000506">The trail-mate could have built the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000507">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000508">it was up to him to build the fire over again,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and this second time there must be no failure.</span>
   <span id="f000510">Even if he succeeded,</span>
   <span id="f000511">he would most likely lose some toes.</span>
   <span id="f000512">His feet must be badly frozen by now,</span>
   <span id="f000513">and there would be some time before the second fire was ready.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">Such were his thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000515">but he did not sit and think them.</span>
   <span id="f000516">He was busy all the time they were passing through his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000517">he made a new foundation for a fire,</span>
   <span id="f000518">this time in the open;</span>
   <span id="f000519">where no treacherous tree could blot it out.</span>
   <span id="f000520">Next,</span>
   <span id="f000521">he gathered dry grasses and tiny twigs from the high-water flotsam.</span>
   <span id="f000522">He could not bring his fingers together to pull them out,</span>
   <span id="f000523">but he was able to gather them by the handful.</span>
   <span id="f000524">In this way he got many rotten twigs and bits of green moss that were undesirable,</span>
   <span id="f000525">but it was the best he could do.</span>
   <span id="f000526">He worked methodically,</span>
   <span id="f000527">even collecting an armful of the larger branches to be used later when the fire gathered strength.</span>
   <span id="f000528">And all the while the dog sat and watched him,</span>
   <span id="f000529">a certain yearning wistfulness in its eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000530">for it looked upon him as the fire-provider,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and the fire was slow in coming.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">When all was ready,</span>
   <span id="f000533">the man reached in his pocket for a second piece of birch-bark.</span>
   <span id="f000534">He knew the bark was there,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and,</span>
   <span id="f000536">though he could not feel it with his fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000537">he could hear its crisp rustling as he fumbled for it.</span>
   <span id="f000538">Try as he would,</span>
   <span id="f000539">he could not clutch hold of it.</span>
   <span id="f000540">And all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000541">in his consciousness,</span>
   <span id="f000542">was the knowledge that each instant his feet were freezing.</span>
   <span id="f000543">This thought tended to put him in a panic,</span>
   <span id="f000544">but he fought against it and kept calm.</span>
   <span id="f000545">He pulled on his mittens with his teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000546">and threshed his arms back and forth,</span>
   <span id="f000547">beating his hands with all his might against his sides.</span>
   <span id="f000548">He did this sitting down,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and he stood up to do it;</span>
   <span id="f000550">and all the while the dog sat in the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000551">its wolf-brush of a tail curled around warmly over its forefeet,</span>
   <span id="f000552">its sharp wolf-ears pricked forward intently as it watched the man.</span>
   <span id="f000553">And the man as he beat and threshed with his arms and hands,</span>
   <span id="f000554">felt a great surge of envy as he regarded the creature that was warm and secure in its natural covering.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">After a time he was aware of the first far-away signals of sensation in his beaten fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000556">The faint tingling grew stronger till it evolved into a stinging ache that was excruciating,</span>
   <span id="f000557">but which the man hailed with satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000558">He stripped the mitten from his right hand and fetched forth the birch-bark.</span>
   <span id="f000559">The exposed fingers were quickly going numb again.</span>
   <span id="f000560">Next he brought out his bunch of sulphur matches.</span>
   <span id="f000561">But the tremendous cold had already driven the life out of his fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000562">In his effort to separate one match from the others,</span>
   <span id="f000563">the whole bunch fell in the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000564">He tried to pick it out of the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000565">but failed.</span>
   <span id="f000566">The dead fingers could neither touch nor clutch.</span>
   <span id="f000567">He was very careful.</span>
   <span id="f000568">He drove the thought of his freezing feet;</span>
   <span id="f000569">and nose,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000571">out of his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000572">devoting his whole soul to the matches.</span>
   <span id="f000573">He watched,</span>
   <span id="f000574">using the sense of vision in place of that of touch,</span>
   <span id="f000575">and when he saw his fingers on each side the bunch,</span>
   <span id="f000576">he closed them—that is,</span>
   <span id="f000577">he willed to close them,</span>
   <span id="f000578">for the wires were drawn,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and the fingers did not obey.</span>
   <span id="f000580">He pulled the mitten on the right hand,</span>
   <span id="f000581">and beat it fiercely against his knee.</span>
   <span id="f000582">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000583">with both mittened hands,</span>
   <span id="f000584">he scooped the bunch of matches,</span>
   <span id="f000585">along with much snow,</span>
   <span id="f000586">into his lap.</span>
   <span id="f000587">Yet he was no better off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">After some manipulation he managed to get the bunch between the heels of his mittened hands.</span>
   <span id="f000589">In this fashion he carried it to his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000590">The ice crackled and snapped when by a violent effort he opened his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000591">He drew the lower jaw in,</span>
   <span id="f000592">curled the upper lip out of the way,</span>
   <span id="f000593">and scraped the bunch with his upper teeth in order to separate a match.</span>
   <span id="f000594">He succeeded in getting one,</span>
   <span id="f000595">which he dropped on his lap.</span>
   <span id="f000596">He was no better off.</span>
   <span id="f000597">He could not pick it up.</span>
   <span id="f000598">Then he devised a way.</span>
   <span id="f000599">He picked it up in his teeth and scratched it on his leg.</span>
   <span id="f000600">Twenty times he scratched before he succeeded in lighting it.</span>
   <span id="f000601">As it flamed he held it with his teeth to the birch-bark.</span>
   <span id="f000602">But the burning brimstone went up his nostrils and into his lungs,</span>
   <span id="f000603">causing him to cough spasmodically.</span>
   <span id="f000604">The match fell into the snow and went out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">The old-timer on Sulphur Creek was right,</span>
   <span id="f000606">he thought in the moment of controlled despair that ensued:</span>
   <span id="f000607">after fifty below,</span>
   <span id="f000608">a man should travel with a partner.</span>
   <span id="f000609">He beat his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000610">but failed in exciting any sensation.</span>
   <span id="f000611">Suddenly he bared both hands,</span>
   <span id="f000612">removing the mittens with his teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000613">He caught the whole bunch between the heels of his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000614">His arm-muscles not being frozen enabled him to press the hand-heels tightly against the matches.</span>
   <span id="f000615">Then he scratched the bunch along his leg.</span>
   <span id="f000616">It flared into flame,</span>
   <span id="f000617">seventy sulphur matches at once!</span>
   <span id="f000618">There was no wind to blow them out.</span>
   <span id="f000619">He kept his head to one side to escape the strangling fumes,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and held the blazing bunch to the birch-bark.</span>
   <span id="f000621">As he so held it,</span>
   <span id="f000622">he became aware of sensation in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000623">His flesh was burning.</span>
   <span id="f000624">He could smell it.</span>
   <span id="f000625">Deep down below the surface he could feel it.</span>
   <span id="f000626">The sensation developed into pain that grew acute.</span>
   <span id="f000627">And still he endured it,</span>
   <span id="f000628">holding the flame of the matches clumsily to the bark that would not light readily because his own burning hands were in the way,</span>
   <span id="f000629">absorbing most of the flame.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000631">when he could endure no more,</span>
   <span id="f000632">he jerked his hands apart.</span>
   <span id="f000633">The blazing matches fell sizzling into the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000634">but the birch-bark was alight.</span>
   <span id="f000635">He began laying dry grasses and the tiniest twigs on the flame.</span>
   <span id="f000636">He could not pick and choose,</span>
   <span id="f000637">for he had to lift the fuel between the heels of his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000638">Small pieces of rotten wood and green moss clung to the twigs,</span>
   <span id="f000639">and he bit them off as well as he could with his teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000640">He cherished the flame carefully and awkwardly.</span>
   <span id="f000641">It meant life,</span>
   <span id="f000642">and it must not perish.</span>
   <span id="f000643">The withdrawal of blood from the surface of his body now made him begin to shiver,</span>
   <span id="f000644">and he grew more awkward.</span>
   <span id="f000645">A large piece of green moss fell squarely on the little fire.</span>
   <span id="f000646">He tried to poke it out with his fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000647">but his shivering frame made him poke too far,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and he disrupted the nucleus of the little fire,</span>
   <span id="f000649">the burning grasses and tiny twigs separating and scattering.</span>
   <span id="f000650">He tried to poke them together again,</span>
   <span id="f000651">but in spite of the tenseness of the effort,</span>
   <span id="f000652">his shivering got away with him,</span>
   <span id="f000653">and the twigs were hopelessly scattered.</span>
   <span id="f000654">Each twig gushed a puff of smoke and went out.</span>
   <span id="f000655">The fire-provider had failed.</span>
   <span id="f000656">As he looked apathetically about him,</span>
   <span id="f000657">his eyes chanced on the dog,</span>
   <span id="f000658">sitting across the ruins of the fire from him,</span>
   <span id="f000659">in the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000660">making restless,</span>
   <span id="f000661">hunching movements,</span>
   <span id="f000662">slightly lifting one forefoot and then the other,</span>
   <span id="f000663">shifting its weight back and forth on them with wistful eagerness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">The sight of the dog put a wild idea into his head.</span>
   <span id="f000665">He remembered the tale of the man,</span>
   <span id="f000666">caught in a blizzard,</span>
   <span id="f000667">who killed a steer and crawled inside the carcass,</span>
   <span id="f000668">and so was saved.</span>
   <span id="f000669">He would kill the dog and bury his hands in the warm body until the numbness went out of them.</span>
   <span id="f000670">Then he could build another fire.</span>
   <span id="f000671">He spoke to the dog,</span>
   <span id="f000672">calling it to him;</span>
   <span id="f000673">but in his voice was a strange note of fear that frightened the animal,</span>
   <span id="f000674">who had never known the man to speak in such way before.</span>
   <span id="f000675">Something was the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and its suspicious nature sensed danger,—it knew not what danger but somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000677">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000678">in its brain arose an apprehension of the man.</span>
   <span id="f000679">It flattened its ears down at the sound of the man’s voice,</span>
   <span id="f000680">and its restless,</span>
   <span id="f000681">hunching movements and the liftings and shiftings of its forefeet became more pronounced but it would not come to the man.</span>
   <span id="f000682">He got on his hands and knees and crawled toward the dog.</span>
   <span id="f000683">This unusual posture again excited suspicion,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and the animal sidled mincingly away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">The man sat up in the snow for a moment and struggled for calmness.</span>
   <span id="f000686">Then he pulled on his mittens,</span>
   <span id="f000687">by means of his teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and got upon his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000689">He glanced down at first in order to assure himself that he was really standing up,</span>
   <span id="f000690">for the absence of sensation in his feet left him unrelated to the earth.</span>
   <span id="f000691">His erect position in itself started to drive the webs of suspicion from the dog’s mind;</span>
   <span id="f000692">and when he spoke peremptorily,</span>
   <span id="f000693">with the sound of whip-lashes in his voice,</span>
   <span id="f000694">the dog rendered its customary allegiance and came to him.</span>
   <span id="f000695">As it came within reaching distance,</span>
   <span id="f000696">the man lost his control.</span>
   <span id="f000697">His arms flashed out to the dog,</span>
   <span id="f000698">and he experienced genuine surprise when he discovered that his hands could not clutch,</span>
   <span id="f000699">that there was neither bend nor feeling in the lingers.</span>
   <span id="f000700">He had forgotten for the moment that they were frozen and that they were freezing more and more.</span>
   <span id="f000701">All this happened quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and before the animal could get away,</span>
   <span id="f000703">he encircled its body with his arms.</span>
   <span id="f000704">He sat down in the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and in this fashion held the dog,</span>
   <span id="f000706">while it snarled and whined and struggled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">But it was all he could do,</span>
   <span id="f000708">hold its body encircled in his arms and sit there.</span>
   <span id="f000709">He realized that he could not kill the dog.</span>
   <span id="f000710">There was no way to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000711">With his helpless hands he could neither draw nor hold his sheath-knife nor throttle the animal.</span>
   <span id="f000712">He released it,</span>
   <span id="f000713">and it plunged wildly away,</span>
   <span id="f000714">with tail between its legs,</span>
   <span id="f000715">and still snarling.</span>
   <span id="f000716">It halted forty feet away and surveyed him curiously,</span>
   <span id="f000717">with ears sharply pricked forward.</span>
   <span id="f000718">The man looked down at his hands in order to locate them,</span>
   <span id="f000719">and found them hanging on the ends of his arms.</span>
   <span id="f000720">It struck him as curious that one should have to use his eyes in order to find out where his hands were.</span>
   <span id="f000721">He began threshing his arms back and forth,</span>
   <span id="f000722">beating the mittened hands against his sides.</span>
   <span id="f000723">He did this for five minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000724">violently,</span>
   <span id="f000725">and his heart pumped enough blood up to the surface to put a stop to his shivering.</span>
   <span id="f000726">But no sensation was aroused in the hands.</span>
   <span id="f000727">He had an impression that they hung like weights on the ends of his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000728">but when he tried to run the impression down,</span>
   <span id="f000729">he could not find it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">A certain fear of death,</span>
   <span id="f000731">dull and oppressive,</span>
   <span id="f000732">came to him.</span>
   <span id="f000733">This fear quickly became poignant as he realized that it was no longer a mere matter of freezing his fingers and toes,</span>
   <span id="f000734">or of losing his hands and feet,</span>
   <span id="f000735">but that it was a matter of life and death with the chances against him.</span>
   <span id="f000736">This threw him into a panic,</span>
   <span id="f000737">and he turned and ran up the creek-bed along the old,</span>
   <span id="f000738">dim trail.</span>
   <span id="f000739">The dog joined in behind and kept up with him.</span>
   <span id="f000740">He ran blindly,</span>
   <span id="f000741">without intention,</span>
   <span id="f000742">in fear such as he had never known in his life.</span>
   <span id="f000743">Slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000744">as he ploughed and floundered through the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000745">he began to see things again—the banks of the creek,</span>
   <span id="f000746">the old timber-jams,</span>
   <span id="f000747">the leafless aspens,</span>
   <span id="f000748">and the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000749">The running made him feel better.</span>
   <span id="f000750">He did not shiver.</span>
   <span id="f000751">Maybe,</span>
   <span id="f000752">if he ran on,</span>
   <span id="f000753">his feet would thaw out;</span>
   <span id="f000754">and,</span>
   <span id="f000755">anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000756">if he ran far enough,</span>
   <span id="f000757">he would reach camp and the boys.</span>
   <span id="f000758">Without doubt he would lose some fingers and toes and some of his face;</span>
   <span id="f000759">but the boys would take care of him,</span>
   <span id="f000760">and save the rest of him when he got there.</span>
   <span id="f000761">And at the same time there was another thought in his mind that said he would never get to the camp and the boys;</span>
   <span id="f000762">that it was too many miles away,</span>
   <span id="f000763">that the freezing had too great a start on him,</span>
   <span id="f000764">and that he would soon be stiff and dead.</span>
   <span id="f000765">This thought he kept in the background and refused to consider.</span>
   <span id="f000766">Sometimes it pushed itself forward and demanded to be heard,</span>
   <span id="f000767">but he thrust it back and strove to think of other things.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">It struck him as curious that he could run at all on feet so frozen that he could not feel them when they struck the earth and took the weight of his body.</span>
   <span id="f000769">He seemed to himself to skim along above the surface and to have no connection with the earth.</span>
   <span id="f000770">Somewhere he had once seen a winged Mercury,</span>
   <span id="f000771">and he wondered if Mercury felt as he felt when skimming over the earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000772">His theory of running until he reached camp and the boys had one flaw in it:</span>
   <span id="f000773">he lacked the endurance.</span>
   <span id="f000774">Several times he stumbled,</span>
   <span id="f000775">and finally he tottered,</span>
   <span id="f000776">crumpled up,</span>
   <span id="f000777">and fell.</span>
   <span id="f000778">When he tried to rise,</span>
   <span id="f000779">he failed.</span>
   <span id="f000780">He must sit and rest,</span>
   <span id="f000781">he decided,</span>
   <span id="f000782">and next time he would merely walk and keep on going.</span>
   <span id="f000783">As he sat and regained his breath,</span>
   <span id="f000784">he noted that he was feeling quite warm and comfortable.</span>
   <span id="f000785">He was not shivering,</span>
   <span id="f000786">and it even seemed that a warm glow had come to his chest and trunk.</span>
   <span id="f000787">And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000788">when he touched his nose or cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000789">there was no sensation.</span>
   <span id="f000790">Running would not thaw them out.</span>
   <span id="f000791">Nor would it thaw out his hands and feet.</span>
   <span id="f000792">Then the thought came to him that the frozen portions of his body must be extending.</span>
   <span id="f000793">He tried to keep this thought down,</span>
   <span id="f000794">to forget it,</span>
   <span id="f000795">to think of something else;</span>
   <span id="f000796">he was aware of the panicky feeling that it caused,</span>
   <span id="f000797">and he was afraid of the panic.</span>
   <span id="f000798">But the thought asserted itself,</span>
   <span id="f000799">and persisted,</span>
   <span id="f000800">until it produced a vision of his body totally frozen.</span>
   <span id="f000801">This was too much,</span>
   <span id="f000802">and he made another wild run along the trail.</span>
   <span id="f000803">Once he slowed down to a walk,</span>
   <span id="f000804">but the thought of the freezing extending itself made him run again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">And all the time the dog ran with him,</span>
   <span id="f000806">at his heels.</span>
   <span id="f000807">When he fell down a second time,</span>
   <span id="f000808">it curled its tail over its forefeet and sat in front of him facing him curiously eager and intent.</span>
   <span id="f000809">The warmth and security of the animal angered him,</span>
   <span id="f000810">and he cursed it till it flattened down its ears appeasingly.</span>
   <span id="f000811">This time the shivering came more quickly upon the man.</span>
   <span id="f000812">He was losing in his battle with the frost.</span>
   <span id="f000813">It was creeping into his body from all sides.</span>
   <span id="f000814">The thought of it drove him on,</span>
   <span id="f000815">but he ran no more than a hundred feet,</span>
   <span id="f000816">when he staggered and pitched headlong.</span>
   <span id="f000817">It was his last panic.</span>
   <span id="f000818">When he had recovered his breath and control,</span>
   <span id="f000819">he sat up and entertained in his mind the conception of meeting death with dignity.</span>
   <span id="f000820">However,</span>
   <span id="f000821">the conception did not come to him in such terms.</span>
   <span id="f000822">His idea of it was that he had been making a fool of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000823">running around like a chicken with its head cut off—such was the simile that occurred to him.</span>
   <span id="f000824">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000825">he was bound to freeze anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000826">and he might as well take it decently.</span>
   <span id="f000827">With this new-found peace of mind came the first glimmerings of drowsiness.</span>
   <span id="f000828">A good idea,</span>
   <span id="f000829">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000830">to sleep off to death.</span>
   <span id="f000831">It was like taking an anæsthetic.</span>
   <span id="f000832">Freezing was not so bad as people thought.</span>
   <span id="f000833">There were lots worse ways to die.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000834">He pictured the boys finding his body next day.</span>
   <span id="f000835">Suddenly he found himself with them,</span>
   <span id="f000836">coming along the trail and looking for himself.</span>
   <span id="f000837">And,</span>
   <span id="f000838">still with them,</span>
   <span id="f000839">he came around a turn in the trail and found himself lying in the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000840">He did not belong with himself any more,</span>
   <span id="f000841">for even then he was out of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000842">standing with the boys and looking at himself in the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000843">It certainly was cold,</span>
   <span id="f000844">was his thought.</span>
   <span id="f000845">When he got back to the States he could tell the folks what real cold was.</span>
   <span id="f000846">He drifted on from this to a vision of the old-timer on Sulphur Creek.</span>
   <span id="f000847">He could see him quite clearly,</span>
   <span id="f000848">warm and comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000849">and smoking a pipe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">“You were right,</span>
   <span id="f000851">old hoss;</span>
   <span id="f000852">you were right,” the man mumbled to the old-timer of Sulphur Creek.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000853">Then the man drowsed off into what seemed to him the most comfortable and satisfying sleep he had ever known.</span>
   <span id="f000854">The dog sat facing him and waiting.</span>
   <span id="f000855">The brief day drew to a close in a long,</span>
   <span id="f000856">slow twilight.</span>
   <span id="f000857">There were no signs of a fire to be made,</span>
   <span id="f000858">and,</span>
   <span id="f000859">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000860">never in the dog’s experience had it known a man to sit like that in the snow and make no fire.</span>
   <span id="f000861">As the twilight drew on,</span>
   <span id="f000862">its eager yearning for the fire mastered it,</span>
   <span id="f000863">and with a great lifting and shifting of forefeet,</span>
   <span id="f000864">it whined softly,</span>
   <span id="f000865">then flattened its ears down in anticipation of being chidden by the man.</span>
   <span id="f000866">But the man remained silent.</span>
   <span id="f000867">Later,</span>
   <span id="f000868">the dog whined loudly.</span>
   <span id="f000869">And still later it crept close to the man and caught the scent of death.</span>
   <span id="f000870">This made the animal bristle and back away.</span>
   <span id="f000871">A little longer it delayed,</span>
   <span id="f000872">howling under the stars that leaped and danced and shone brightly in the cold sky.</span>
   <span id="f000873">Then it turned and trotted up the trail in the direction of the camp it knew,</span>
   <span id="f000874">where were the other food-providers and fire-providers.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

