<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Aunt Kipp</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">“Children and fools speak the truth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000004">“What’s that sigh for,</span>
   <span id="f000005">Polly dear?” “I’m tired,</span>
   <span id="f000006">mother,</span>
   <span id="f000007">tired of working and waiting.</span>
   <span id="f000008">If I’m ever going to have any fun,</span>
   <span id="f000009">I want it <em>now</em> while I can enjoy it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">“You shouldn’t wait another hour if I could have my way;</span>
   <span id="f000011">but you know how helpless I am;” and poor Mrs.&#160;Snow sighed dolefully,</span>
   <span id="f000012">as she glanced about the dingy room and pretty Mary turning her faded gown for the second time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">“If Aunt Kipp would give us the money she is always talking about,</span>
   <span id="f000014">instead of waiting till she dies,</span>
   <span id="f000015">we should be <em>so</em> comfortable.</span>
   <span id="f000016">She is a dreadful bore,</span>
   <span id="f000017">for she lives in such terror of dropping dead with her heart-complaint that she doesn’t take any pleasure in life herself or let any one else;</span>
   <span id="f000018">so the sooner she goes the better for all of us,” said Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000019">in a desperate tone;</span>
   <span id="f000020">for things looked very black to her just then.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">“My dear,</span>
   <span id="f000022">don’t say that,” began her mother,</span>
   <span id="f000023">mildly shocked;</span>
   <span id="f000024">but a bluff little voice broke in with the forcible remark,</span>
   <span id="f000025">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“She’s everlastingly telling me never to put off till to-morrow what can be done to-day;</span>
   <span id="f000027">next time she comes I’ll remind her of that,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and ask her,</span>
   <span id="f000029">if she is going to die,</span>
   <span id="f000030">why she doesn’t do it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“Toady!</span>
   <span id="f000032">you’re a wicked,</span>
   <span id="f000033">disrespectful boy;</span>
   <span id="f000034">never let me hear you say such a thing again about your dear Aunt Kipp.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">“She isn’t dear!</span>
   <span id="f000036">You know we all hate her,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and you are more afraid of her than you are of spiders,</span>
   <span id="f000038">– so now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">The young personage whose proper name had been corrupted into Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000040">was a small boy of ten or eleven,</span>
   <span id="f000041">apple-cheeked,</span>
   <span id="f000042">round-eyed,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and curly-headed;</span>
   <span id="f000044">arrayed in well-worn,</span>
   <span id="f000045">gray knickerbockers,</span>
   <span id="f000046">profusely adorned with paint,</span>
   <span id="f000047">glue,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and shreds of cotton.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Perched on a high stool,</span>
   <span id="f000050">at an isolated table in a state of chaos,</span>
   <span id="f000051">he was absorbed in making a boat,</span>
   <span id="f000052">entirely oblivious of the racking tooth-ache which had been his excuse for staying from school.</span>
   <span id="f000053">As cool,</span>
   <span id="f000054">saucy,</span>
   <span id="f000055">hard-handed,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and soft-hearted a little specimen of young America was Toady as you would care to see;</span>
   <span id="f000057">a tyrant at home,</span>
   <span id="f000058">a rebel at school,</span>
   <span id="f000059">a sworn foe to law,</span>
   <span id="f000060">order,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and Aunt Kipp.</span>
   <span id="f000062">This young person was regarded as a reprobate by all but his mother,</span>
   <span id="f000063">sister,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and sister’s sweetheart,</span>
   <span id="f000065">Van Bahr Lamb.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Having been,</span>
   <span id="f000067">through much anguish of flesh and spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000068">taught that lying was a deadly sin,</span>
   <span id="f000069">Toady rushed to the other extreme,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and bolted out the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000071">the whole truth and nothing but the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000072">at all times and places,</span>
   <span id="f000073">with a startling abruptness that brought wrath and dismay upon his friends and relatives.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“It’s wicked to fib;</span>
   <span id="f000075">you’ve whipped that into me and you can’t rub it out,” he was wont to say,</span>
   <span id="f000076">with vivid recollection of the past tingling in the chubby portions of his frame.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“Mind your chips,</span>
   <span id="f000078">Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and take care what you say to Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000080">or you’ll be as poor as a little rat all the days of your life,” said Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000081">warningly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">“I don’t want her old money,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and I’ll tell her so if she bothers me about it.</span>
   <span id="f000084">I shall go into business with Van and take care of the whole lot;</span>
   <span id="f000085">so don’t you preach,</span>
   <span id="f000086">Polly,” returned Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000087">with as much dignity as was compatible with a great dab of glue on the end of his snub nose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“Mother,</span>
   <span id="f000089">did aunt say anything about coming this week?” asked Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000090">after a pause of intense thought over a breadth with three darns,</span>
   <span id="f000091">two spots,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and a burn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000094">she wrote that she was too feeble to come at present,</span>
   <span id="f000095">as she had such dreadful palpitations she didn’t dare stir from her room.</span>
   <span id="f000096">So we are quite safe for the next week at least,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and – bless my soul,</span>
   <span id="f000098">there she is now!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">Mrs.&#160;Snow clasped her hands with a gesture of dismay,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and sat as if transfixed by the spectacle of a ponderous lady,</span>
   <span id="f000101">in an awe-inspiring bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000102">who came walking slowly down the street.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Polly gave a groan,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and pulled a bright ribbon from her hair.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Toady muttered,</span>
   <span id="f000106">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000107">bother!” and vainly attempted to polish up his countenance with a fragmentary pocket-handkerchief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“Nothing but salt fish for dinner,” wailed Mrs.&#160;Snow,</span>
   <span id="f000109">as the shadow of the coming event fell upon her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Van will make a fool of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and ruin everything,” sighed Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000112">glancing at the ring on her finger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“I know she’ll kiss me;</span>
   <span id="f000114">she never <em>will</em> let a fellow alone,” growled Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000115">scowling darkly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">The garden gate clashed,</span>
   <span id="f000117">dust flew from the door-mat,</span>
   <span id="f000118">a heavy step echoed in the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000119">an imperious voice called “Sophy!” and Aunt Kipp entered with a flourish of trumpets,</span>
   <span id="f000120">for Toady blew a blast through his fingers which made the bows totter on her bonnet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“My dear aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000122">I’m very glad to see you,” murmured Mrs.&#160;Snow,</span>
   <span id="f000123">advancing with a smile of welcome;</span>
   <span id="f000124">for though as weak as water gruel,</span>
   <span id="f000125">she was as kind-hearted a little woman as ever lived.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“What a fib that was!” said Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000127"><em>sotto voce</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“We were just saying we were afraid you wouldn’t” – began Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000129">when a warning,</span>
   <span id="f000130">“Mind now,</span>
   <span id="f000131">Polly,” caused her to stop short and busy herself with the newcomer’s bag and umbrella.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">“I changed my mind.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Theodore,</span>
   <span id="f000134">come and kiss me,” answered Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000135">briefly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">“Yes’m,” was the plaintive reply,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and,</span>
   <span id="f000138">closing his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000139">Toady awaited his fate with fortitude.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">But the dreaded salute did not come,</span>
   <span id="f000141">for Aunt Kipp exclaimed in alarm,</span>
   <span id="f000142">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“Mercy on us!</span>
   <span id="f000144">has the boy got the plague?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">“No’m,</span>
   <span id="f000146">it’s paint,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and dirt,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and glue,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and it <em>won’t</em> come off,” said Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000150">stroking his variegated countenance with grateful admiration for the stains that saved him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“Go and wash this moment,</span>
   <span id="f000152">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000153">Thank Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000154"><em>I’ve</em> got no boys,” cried Aunt Kipp.</span>
   <span id="f000155">as if boys were some virulent disease which she had narrowly escaped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">With a hasty peck at the lips of her two elder relatives,</span>
   <span id="f000157">the old lady seated herself,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and slowly removed the awful bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000159">which in shape and hue much resembled a hearse hung with black crape.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“I’m glad you are better,” said Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000161">reverently receiving the funereal head-gear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“I’m <em>not</em> better,” cut in Aunt Kipp.</span>
   <span id="f000163">“I’m worse,</span>
   <span id="f000164">much worse;</span>
   <span id="f000165">my days are numbered;</span>
   <span id="f000166">I stand on the brink of the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and may drop at any moment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">Toady’s face was a study,</span>
   <span id="f000169">as he glanced up at the old lady’s florid countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000170">down at the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000171">as if in search of the above-mentioned “brink,” and looked unaffectedly anxious to see her drop.</span>
   <span id="f000172">“Why don’t you,</span>
   <span id="f000173">then?” was on his lips;</span>
   <span id="f000174">but a frown from Polly restrained him,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and he sat himself down on the rug to contemplate the corpulent victim.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“Have a cup of tea,</span>
   <span id="f000177">aunt?” said Mrs.&#160;Snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“I will.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“Lie down and rest a little,” suggested Polly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“I won’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“Can we do anything for you?” said both.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Take my things away,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and have dinner early.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">Both departed to perform these behests,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and,</span>
   <span id="f000186">leaning back in her chair,</span>
   <span id="f000187">Aunt Kipp reposed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“I say,</span>
   <span id="f000189">what’s a bore?” asked Toady from the rug,</span>
   <span id="f000190">where he sat rocking meditatively to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000191">holding on by his shoe-strings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“It’s a kind of a pig,</span>
   <span id="f000193">very fierce,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and folks are afraid of ’em,” said Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000195">whose knowledge of Natural History was limited.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Good for Polly!</span>
   <span id="f000197">so you are!” sung out the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000198">with the hearty child’s laugh so pleasant to most ears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“What do you mean,</span>
   <span id="f000200">sir?” demanded the old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000201">irefully poking at him with her umbrella.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000203">Polly said you were a bore,” explained Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000204">with artless frankness.</span>
   <span id="f000205">“You <em>are</em> fat,</span>
   <span id="f000206">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and fierce sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and folks are afraid of you.</span>
   <span id="f000209">Good,</span>
   <span id="f000210">wasn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“Very!</span>
   <span id="f000212">Mary is a nice,</span>
   <span id="f000213">grateful,</span>
   <span id="f000214">respectful,</span>
   <span id="f000215">loving niece,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and I shan’t forget her,</span>
   <span id="f000217">she may depend on that,” and Aunt Kipp laughed grimly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“May she?</span>
   <span id="f000219">well,</span>
   <span id="f000220">that’s jolly now.</span>
   <span id="f000221">She was afraid you wouldn’t give her the money;</span>
   <span id="f000222">so I’ll tell her it’s all right;” and innocent Toady nodded approvingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000224">she expects some of my money,</span>
   <span id="f000225">does she?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“Course she does;</span>
   <span id="f000227">ain’t you always saying you’ll remember us in your will,</span>
   <span id="f000228">because father was your favorite nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and all that?</span>
   <span id="f000230">I’ll tell you a secret,</span>
   <span id="f000231">if you won’t let Polly know I spoke first.</span>
   <span id="f000232">You’ll find it out to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000233">for you ’d see Van and she were sweethearts in a minute.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“Sweethearts?” cried Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000235">turning red in the face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“Yes’m.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Van settled it last week,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and Polly’s been so happy ever since.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Mother likes it,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and <em>I</em> like it,</span>
   <span id="f000241">for I’m fond of Van,</span>
   <span id="f000242">though I do call him Baa-baa,</span>
   <span id="f000243">because he looks like a sheep.</span>
   <span id="f000244">We all like it,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and we ’d all say so,</span>
   <span id="f000246">if we were not afraid of you.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Mother and Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000248">I mean;</span>
   <span id="f000249">of course we men don’t mind,</span>
   <span id="f000250">but we don’t want a fuss.</span>
   <span id="f000251">You won’t make one,</span>
   <span id="f000252">will you,</span>
   <span id="f000253">now?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">Anything more expressive of brotherly good-will,</span>
   <span id="f000255">persuasive frankness,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and a placid consciousness of having “fixed it,” than Toady’s dirty little face,</span>
   <span id="f000257">it would be hard to find.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Aunt Kipp eyed him so fiercely that even before she spoke a dim suspicion that something was wrong began to dawn on his too-confiding soul.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">“<em>I</em> don’t like it,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and I’ll put a stop to it.</span>
   <span id="f000261">I won’t have any ridiculous baa-baas in my family.</span>
   <span id="f000262">If Mary counts on my money to begin housekeeping with,</span>
   <span id="f000263">she’ll find herself mistaken;</span>
   <span id="f000264">for not one penny shall she have,</span>
   <span id="f000265">married or single,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and you may tell her so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">Toady was so taken aback by this explosion that he let go his shoe-strings,</span>
   <span id="f000268">fell over with a crash,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and lay flat,</span>
   <span id="f000270">with shovel and tongs spread upon him like a pall.</span>
   <span id="f000271">In rushed Mrs.&#160;Snow and Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000272">to find the boy’s spirits quite quenched,</span>
   <span id="f000273">for once,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and Aunt Kipp in a towering passion.</span>
   <span id="f000275">It all came out in one overwhelming flood of words,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and Toady fled from the storm to wander round the house,</span>
   <span id="f000277">a prey to the deepest remorse.</span>
   <span id="f000278">The meekness of that boy at dinner-time was so angelic that Mrs.&#160;Snow would have feared speedy translation for him,</span>
   <span id="f000279">if she had not been very angry.</span>
   <span id="f000280">Polly’s red eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and Aunt Kipp’s griffinesque expression of countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000282">weighed upon his soul so heavily,</span>
   <span id="f000283">that even roly-poly pudding failed to assuage his trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and,</span>
   <span id="f000285">taking his mother into the china-closet,</span>
   <span id="f000286">he anxiously inquired “if it was all up with Polly?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“I’m afraid so,</span>
   <span id="f000288">for aunt vows she will make a new will to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and leave every penny to the Charitable Rag-bag Society,” sighed Mrs.&#160;Snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“I didn’t mean to do it,</span>
   <span id="f000291">I truly didn’t!</span>
   <span id="f000292">I thought I’d just ’give her a hint,’ as you say.</span>
   <span id="f000293">She looked all right,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and laughed when I told her about being a bore,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and I thought she liked it.</span>
   <span id="f000296">If she was a man,</span>
   <span id="f000297">I’d thrash her for making Polly cry;” and Toady shook his fist at Aunt Kipp’s umbrella,</span>
   <span id="f000298">which was an immense relief to his perturbed spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“Bless the boy!</span>
   <span id="f000300">I do believe he would!” cried Mrs.&#160;Snow,</span>
   <span id="f000301">watching the little turkey-cock with maternal pride.</span>
   <span id="f000302">“You can’t do that:</span>
   <span id="f000303">so just be careful and not make any more mischief,</span>
   <span id="f000304">dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“I’ll try,</span>
   <span id="f000306">mother;</span>
   <span id="f000307">but I’m always getting into scrapes with Aunt Kipp.</span>
   <span id="f000308">She’s worse than measles,</span>
   <span id="f000309">any day,</span>
   <span id="f000310">– such an old aggrawater!</span>
   <span id="f000311">Van’s coming this afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000312">won’t he make her pleasant again?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000314">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000315">no!</span>
   <span id="f000316">He will probably make things ten times worse,</span>
   <span id="f000317">he’s so bashful and queer.</span>
   <span id="f000318">I’m afraid our last chance is gone,</span>
   <span id="f000319">deary,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and we must rub along as we have done.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">One sniff of emotion burst from Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and for a moment he laid his head in the knife-tray,</span>
   <span id="f000323">overcome with disappointment and regret.</span>
   <span id="f000324">But scorning to yield to unmanly tears,</span>
   <span id="f000325">he was soon himself again.</span>
   <span id="f000326">Thrusting his beloved jackknife,</span>
   <span id="f000327">with three blades and a file,</span>
   <span id="f000328">into Polly’s hand,</span>
   <span id="f000329">he whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000330">brokenly,</span>
   <span id="f000331">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“Keep it forever ’n’ ever;</span>
   <span id="f000333">I’m awful sorry!” Then,</span>
   <span id="f000334">feeling that the magnitude of this sacrifice atoned for everything,</span>
   <span id="f000335">he went to watch for Van,</span>
   <span id="f000336">– the forlorn hope to which he now clung.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

