<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Aunt Kipp</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">“Sophy,</span>
   <span id="f000004">I’m surprised at your want of judgment.</span>
   <span id="f000005">Do you really mean to let your girl marry this Lamb?</span>
   <span id="f000006">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000007">the man’s a fool!” began Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000008">after dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000009">by way of opening a pleasant conversation with her relatives.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">“Dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000011">aunt!</span>
   <span id="f000012">how can you know that,</span>
   <span id="f000013">when you never saw him?” mildly returned Mrs.&#160;Snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">“I’ve heard of him,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and that’s enough for me.</span>
   <span id="f000016">I’ve a deal of penetration in judging character,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and I tell you Van Bahr Lamb is a fool.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">The amiable old lady thought this would rouse Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000019">against whom her anger still burned hotly.</span>
   <span id="f000020">But Polly also possessed penetration;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and,</span>
   <span id="f000022">well knowing that contradiction would delight Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000023">she completely took the wind out of her sails,</span>
   <span id="f000024">by coolly remarking,</span>
   <span id="f000025">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“I like fools.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">“Bless my heart!</span>
   <span id="f000028">what does the girl mean?” ejaculated Aunt Kipp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">“Just what I say.</span>
   <span id="f000030">If Van is a fool,</span>
   <span id="f000031">I prefer simpletons to wiseacres.</span>
   <span id="f000032">I know he is shy and awkward,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and does absurd things now and then.</span>
   <span id="f000034">But I also know that he has the kindest heart that ever was;</span>
   <span id="f000035">is unselfish,</span>
   <span id="f000036">faithful and loving;</span>
   <span id="f000037">that he took good care of his old parents till they died,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and never thought of himself while they needed him.</span>
   <span id="f000039">He loves me dearly;</span>
   <span id="f000040">will wait for me a dozen years,</span>
   <span id="f000041">if I say so,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and work all his days to make me happy.</span>
   <span id="f000043">He’s a help and comfort to mother,</span>
   <span id="f000044">a good friend to Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and I love and respect and am proud of him,</span>
   <span id="f000046">though you do say he is a fool,” cried Polly heartily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“And you insist on marrying him?” demanded Aunt Kipp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000049">I do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“Then I wish a carriage immediately,” was the somewhat irrelevant reply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000052">aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000053">you don’t mean to go so soon?” cried Mrs.&#160;Snow,</span>
   <span id="f000054">with a reproachful glance at the rebellious Polly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">“Far from it.</span>
   <span id="f000056">I wish to see Judge Banks about altering my will,” was the awful answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">Polly’s face fell;</span>
   <span id="f000058">her mother gave a despairing sigh;</span>
   <span id="f000059">Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000060">who had hovered about the door,</span>
   <span id="f000061">uttered a suppressed whistle of dismay;</span>
   <span id="f000062">and Mrs.&#160;Kipp looked about her with vengeful satisfaction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“Get the big carryall and old Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000064">so the boy can drive,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and all of you come;</span>
   <span id="f000066">the trip will do you good.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">It was like Aunt Kipp to invite her poor relations to go and “nip their own noses off,” as she elegantly expressed it.</span>
   <span id="f000068">It was a party of pleasure that just suited her,</span>
   <span id="f000069">for all the fun was on her side.</span>
   <span id="f000070">She grew affable at once,</span>
   <span id="f000071">was quite pressing in her invitation,</span>
   <span id="f000072">regretted that Sophy was too busy to go,</span>
   <span id="f000073">praised Polly’s hat;</span>
   <span id="f000074">and professed herself quite satisfied with “that dear boy” for a driver.</span>
   <span id="f000075">The “dear boy” distorted his young countenance frightfully behind her back,</span>
   <span id="f000076">but found a balm for every wound in the delight of being commander of the expedition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">The big carryall appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and,</span>
   <span id="f000079">with much creaking and swaying Mrs.&#160;Kipp was got into the back seat,</span>
   <span id="f000080">where the big bonnet gloomed like a thunder-cloud.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000082">in a high state of indignation,</span>
   <span id="f000083">which only made her look ten times prettier,</span>
   <span id="f000084">sat in front with Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000085">who was a sight to see as he drove off with his short legs planted against the boot,</span>
   <span id="f000086">his elbows squared,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and the big whip scientifically cracking now and then.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Away they went,</span>
   <span id="f000089">leaving poor Mrs.&#160;Snow to bewail herself dismally after she had smiled and nodded them out of sight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“Don’t go over any bridges or railroad crossings or by any saw-mills,” said the old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000091">as if the town could be suddenly remodelled to suit her taste.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Yes’m,” returned Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000093">with a crack which would have done honor to a French postilion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">It was a fine day,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and the young people would have enjoyed the ride in spite of the breakers ahead,</span>
   <span id="f000096">if Aunt Kipp hadn’t entertained the girl with a glowing account of the splendors of her own wedding,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and aggravated the boy by frequent pokes and directions in the art of driving,</span>
   <span id="f000098">of which she was of course,</span>
   <span id="f000099">profoundly ignorant.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Polly couldn’t restrain a tear or two,</span>
   <span id="f000101">in thinking of her own poor little prospects,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and Toady was goaded to desperation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“I’ll give her a regular shaking up;</span>
   <span id="f000104">it’ll make her hold her tongue and do her good,” he said to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000105">as a stony hill sloped temptingly before him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">A sly chuck,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and some mysterious manoeuvre with the reins,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and Bob started off at a brisk trot,</span>
   <span id="f000109">as if he objected to the old lady as much as her mischievous little nephew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Hold him in!</span>
   <span id="f000111">Keep a taut rein!</span>
   <span id="f000112">Lord ’a mercy,</span>
   <span id="f000113">he’s running away!” shrieked Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000114">or tried to shriek,</span>
   <span id="f000115">for the bouncing and bumping jerked the words out of her mouth with ludicrous incoherency.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“I am holding him,</span>
   <span id="f000117">but he <em>will</em> go,” said Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000118">with a wicked triumph in his eye as he glanced back at Polly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">The next minute the words were quite true;</span>
   <span id="f000120">for,</span>
   <span id="f000121">as he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000122">two or three distracted hens flew squalling over the wall and scattered about,</span>
   <span id="f000123">under,</span>
   <span id="f000124">over,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and before the horse,</span>
   <span id="f000126">as only distracted hens could do.</span>
   <span id="f000127">It was too much for Bob’s nerves;</span>
   <span id="f000128">and,</span>
   <span id="f000129">taking matters into his own hands,</span>
   <span id="f000130">or feet,</span>
   <span id="f000131">rather,</span>
   <span id="f000132">he broke into a run,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and rattled the old lady over the stones with a velocity which left her speechless.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">Polly laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and Toady chuckled,</span>
   <span id="f000136">as they caught glimpses of the awful bonnet vibrating wildly in the background,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and felt the frantic clutchings of the old lady’s hands.</span>
   <span id="f000138">But both grew sober as a shrill car-whistle sounded not far off;</span>
   <span id="f000139">and Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000140">as if possessed by an evil spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000141">turned suddenly into the road that led to the railroad crossing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“That will do,</span>
   <span id="f000143">Toady;</span>
   <span id="f000144">now pull up,</span>
   <span id="f000145">for we can’t get over in time,” said Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000146">glancing anxiously toward the rapidly approaching puffs of white smoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“I can’t,</span>
   <span id="f000148">Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000149">– I really can’t,” cried the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000150">tugging with all his might,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and beginning to look scared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">Polly lent her aid;</span>
   <span id="f000153">but Bob scarcely seemed to feel it,</span>
   <span id="f000154">for he had been a racer once,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and when his blood was up he was hard to handle.</span>
   <span id="f000156">His own good sense might have checked him,</span>
   <span id="f000157">if Aunt Kipp hadn’t unfortunately recovered her voice at this crisis,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and uttered a succession of the shrillest screams that ever saluted mortal ears.</span>
   <span id="f000159">With a snort and a bound Bob dashed straight on toward the crossing,</span>
   <span id="f000160">as the train appeared round the bend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“Let me out!</span>
   <span id="f000162">Let me out!</span>
   <span id="f000163">Jump!</span>
   <span id="f000164">Jump!” shrieked Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000165">thrusting her head out of the window,</span>
   <span id="f000166">while she fumbled madly for the door-handle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“O Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000168">save us!</span>
   <span id="f000169">save us!” gasped Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000170">losing her presence of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and dropping the reins to cling to her brother,</span>
   <span id="f000172">with a woman’s instinctive faith in the stronger sex.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">But Toady held on manfully,</span>
   <span id="f000174">though his arms were nearly pulled off,</span>
   <span id="f000175">for “Never say die,” was his motto,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and the plucky little lad wouldn’t show fear before the women.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Don’t howl;</span>
   <span id="f000178">we’ll do it!</span>
   <span id="f000179">Hi,</span>
   <span id="f000180">Bob!” and with a savage slash of the whip,</span>
   <span id="f000181">an exciting cry,</span>
   <span id="f000182">a terrible reeling and rattling,</span>
   <span id="f000183">they <em>did</em> do it;</span>
   <span id="f000184">for Bob cleared the track at a breakneck pace,</span>
   <span id="f000185">just in time for the train to sweep swiftly by behind them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">Aunt Kipp dropped in a heap,</span>
   <span id="f000187">Polly looked up at her brother,</span>
   <span id="f000188">with a look which he never forgot;</span>
   <span id="f000189">and Toady tried to say,</span>
   <span id="f000190">stoutly,</span>
   <span id="f000191">“It’s all right!” with lips that were white and dry in spite of himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“We shall smash up at the bridge,” he muttered,</span>
   <span id="f000193">as they tore through the town,</span>
   <span id="f000194">where every one obligingly shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000195">waved their hats,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and danced about on the sidewalks,</span>
   <span id="f000197">doing nothing but add to Bob’s fright and the party’s danger.</span>
   <span id="f000198">But Toady was wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000199">– they did not smash up at the bridge;</span>
   <span id="f000200">for,</span>
   <span id="f000201">before they reached the perilous spot,</span>
   <span id="f000202">one man had the sense to fly straight at the horse’s head and hold on till the momentary check enabled others to lend a hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">The instant they were safe,</span>
   <span id="f000204">Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000205">like a regular heroine,</span>
   <span id="f000206">threw herself into the arms of her dishevelled preserver,</span>
   <span id="f000207">who of course was Van,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and would have refreshed herself with hysterics if the sight of Toady hadn’t steadied her.</span>
   <span id="f000209">The boy sat as stiff and rigid as a wooden figure till they took the reins from him;</span>
   <span id="f000210">then all the strength seemed to go out of him,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and he leaned against his sister,</span>
   <span id="f000212">as white and trembling as she,</span>
   <span id="f000213">whispering with an irrepressible sob,</span>
   <span id="f000214">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“O Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000216">wasn’t it horrid?</span>
   <span id="f000217">Tell mother I stood by you like a man.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Do tell her that!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">If any one had had time or heart to laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000220">they certainly would have done it when,</span>
   <span id="f000221">after much groping,</span>
   <span id="f000222">heaving,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and hoisting.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Mrs.&#160;Kipp was extricated and restored to consciousness;</span>
   <span id="f000225">for a more ludicrously deplorable spectacle was seldom seen.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Quite unhurt,</span>
   <span id="f000227">though much shaken,</span>
   <span id="f000228">the old lady insisted on believing herself to be dying,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and kept the town in a ferment till three doctors had pronounced her perfectly well able to go home.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Then the perversity of her nature induced her to comply,</span>
   <span id="f000231">that she might have the satisfaction of dying on the way,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and proving herself in the right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">Unfortunately she did not expire,</span>
   <span id="f000234">but,</span>
   <span id="f000235">having safely arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000236">went to bed in high dudgeon,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and led Polly and her mother a sad life of it for two weary days.</span>
   <span id="f000238">Having heard of Toady’s gallant behavior,</span>
   <span id="f000239">she solemnly ordered him up to receive her blessing.</span>
   <span id="f000240">But the sight of Aunt Kipp’s rubicund visage,</span>
   <span id="f000241">surrounded by the stiff frills of an immense nightcap,</span>
   <span id="f000242">caused the irreverent boy to explode with laughter in his handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and to be hustled away by his mother before Aunt Kipp discovered the true cause of his convulsed appearance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000245">poor dear,</span>
   <span id="f000246">his feelings are too much for him.</span>
   <span id="f000247">He sees my doom in my face,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and is overcome by what you refuse to believe.</span>
   <span id="f000249">I shan’t forget that boy’s devotion.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Now leave me to the meditations befitting these solemn hours.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">Mrs.&#160;Snow retired,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and Aunt Kipp tried to sleep;</span>
   <span id="f000253">but the murmur of voices,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and the sound of stifled laughter in the next room disturbed her repose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“They are rejoicing over my approaching end,</span>
   <span id="f000256">knowing that I haven’t changed my will.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Mercenary creatures,</span>
   <span id="f000258">don’t exult too soon!</span>
   <span id="f000259">there’s time yet,” she muttered;</span>
   <span id="f000260">and presently,</span>
   <span id="f000261">unable to control her curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000262">she crept out of bed to listen and peep through the keyhole.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">Van Bahr Lamb did look rather like a sheep.</span>
   <span id="f000264">He had a blond curly head,</span>
   <span id="f000265">a long face,</span>
   <span id="f000266">pale,</span>
   <span id="f000267">mild eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000268">a plaintive voice,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and a general expression of innocent timidity strongly suggestive of animated mutton.</span>
   <span id="f000270">But Baa-baa was a “trump,” as Toady emphatically declared,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and though every one laughed at him,</span>
   <span id="f000272">every one liked him,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and that is more than can be said of many saints and sages.</span>
   <span id="f000274">He adored Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000275">was dutifully kind to her mother,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and had stood by T.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Snow,</span>
   <span id="f000278">Jr.,</span>
   <span id="f000279">in many an hour of tribulation with fraternal fidelity.</span>
   <span id="f000280">Though he had long blushed,</span>
   <span id="f000281">sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and cast sheep’s eyes at the idol of his affections,</span>
   <span id="f000283">only till lately had he dared to bleat forth his passion.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Polly loved him because she couldn’t help it;</span>
   <span id="f000285">but she was proud,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and wouldn’t marry till Aunt Kipp’s money was hers,</span>
   <span id="f000287">or at least a sure prospect of it;</span>
   <span id="f000288">and now even the prospect of a prospect was destroyed by that irrepressible Toady.</span>
   <span id="f000289">They were talking of this as the old lady suspected,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and of course the following conversation afforded her intense satisfaction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“It’s a shame to torment us as she does,</span>
   <span id="f000292">knowing how poor we are and how happy a little of her money would make us.</span>
   <span id="f000293">I’m tired of being a slave to a cruel old woman just because she’s rich.</span>
   <span id="f000294">If it was not for mother,</span>
   <span id="f000295">I declare I’d wash my hands of her entirely,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and do the best I could for myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“Hooray for Polly!</span>
   <span id="f000298">I always said let her money go and be jolly without it,” cried Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000299">who,</span>
   <span id="f000300">in his character of wounded hero,</span>
   <span id="f000301">reposed with a lordly air on the sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000302">enjoying the fragrance of the opodeldoc with which his strained wrists were bandaged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“It’s on your account,</span>
   <span id="f000304">children,</span>
   <span id="f000305">that I bear with aunt’s temper as I do.</span>
   <span id="f000306">I don’t want anything for myself,</span>
   <span id="f000307">but I really think she owes it to your dear father,</span>
   <span id="f000308">who was devoted to her while he lived,</span>
   <span id="f000309">to provide for his children when he couldn’t;” after which remarkably spirited speech for her,</span>
   <span id="f000310">Mrs.&#160;Snow dropped a tear,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and stitched away on a small trouser-leg which was suffering from a complicated compound fracture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“Don’t you worry about me,</span>
   <span id="f000313">mother;</span>
   <span id="f000314">I’ll take care of myself and you too,” remarked Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000315">with the cheery belief in impossibilities which makes youth so charming.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000317">Van,</span>
   <span id="f000318">tell us what to do,</span>
   <span id="f000319">for things have come to such a pass that we must either break away altogether or be galley-slaves as long as Aunt Kipp lives,” said Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000320">who was a good deal excited about the matter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000322">really,</span>
   <span id="f000323">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000324">I don’t know,” hesitated Van,</span>
   <span id="f000325">who did know what <em>he</em> wanted,</span>
   <span id="f000326">but thought it might be selfish to urge it.</span>
   <span id="f000327">“Have you tried to soften your aunt’s heart?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000328">after a moment’s meditation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">“Good gracious,</span>
   <span id="f000330">Van,</span>
   <span id="f000331">she hasn’t got any,” cried Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000332">who firmly believed it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“It’s hossified,” thoughtfully remarked Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000334">quite unconscious of any approach to a joke till every one giggled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“You’ve had hossification enough for one while,</span>
   <span id="f000336">my lad,” laughed Van.</span>
   <span id="f000337">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000338">Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000339">if the old lady has no heart you’d better let her go,</span>
   <span id="f000340">for people without hearts are not worth much.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">“That’s a beautiful remark,</span>
   <span id="f000342">Van,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and a wise one.</span>
   <span id="f000344">I just wish she could hear you make it,</span>
   <span id="f000345">for she called you a fool,” said Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000346">irefully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">“Did she?</span>
   <span id="f000348">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000349">I don’t mind,</span>
   <span id="f000350">I’m used to it,” returned Van,</span>
   <span id="f000351">placidly;</span>
   <span id="f000352">and so he was,</span>
   <span id="f000353">for Polly called him a goose every day of her life,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and he enjoyed it immensely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“Then you think,</span>
   <span id="f000356">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000357">if we stopped worrying about aunt and her money,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and worked instead of waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000359">that we shouldn’t be any poorer and might be a great deal happier than we are now?” asked Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000360">making a pretty little tableau as she put her hand through Van’s arm and looked up at him with as much love,</span>
   <span id="f000361">respect,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and reliance as if he had been six feet tall,</span>
   <span id="f000363">with the face of an Apollo and the manners of a Chesterfield.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000365">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000366">I do,</span>
   <span id="f000367">for it has troubled me a good deal to see you so badgered by that very uncomfortable old lady.</span>
   <span id="f000368">Independence is a very nice thing,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and poverty isn’t half as bad as this sort of slavery.</span>
   <span id="f000370">But you are not going to be poor,</span>
   <span id="f000371">nor worry about anything.</span>
   <span id="f000372">We’ll just be married and take mother and Toady home and be as jolly as grigs,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and never think of Mrs.&#160;K.</span>
   <span id="f000374">again,</span>
   <span id="f000375">– unless she loses her fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000376">or gets sick,</span>
   <span id="f000377">or comes to grief in any way.</span>
   <span id="f000378">We’d lend her a hand then,</span>
   <span id="f000379">wouldn’t we,</span>
   <span id="f000380">Polly?” and Van’s mild face was pleasant to behold as he made the kindly proposition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000382">we’d think of it,” said Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000383">trying not to relent,</span>
   <span id="f000384">but feeling that she was going very fast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">“Let’s do it!” cried Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000386">fired with the thought of privy conspiracy and rebellion.</span>
   <span id="f000387">“Mother would be so comfortable with Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and I’d help Van in the store,</span>
   <span id="f000389">when I’ve learned that confounded multiplication table,” he added with a groan;</span>
   <span id="f000390">“and if Aunt Kipp comes a visiting,</span>
   <span id="f000391">we’ll just say ’Not at home,’ and let her trot off again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“It sounds very nice,</span>
   <span id="f000393">but aunt will be dreadfully offended and I don’t wish to be ungrateful,” said Mrs.&#160;Snow,</span>
   <span id="f000394">brightening visibly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“There’s no ingratitude about it,” cried Van.</span>
   <span id="f000396">“She might have done everything to make you love,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and respect,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and admire her,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and been a happy,</span>
   <span id="f000400">useful,</span>
   <span id="f000401">motherly,</span>
   <span id="f000402">old soul;</span>
   <span id="f000403">but she didn’t choose to,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and now she must take the consequences.</span>
   <span id="f000405">No one cares for her,</span>
   <span id="f000406">because she cares for nobody;</span>
   <span id="f000407">her money’s the plague of her life,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and not a single heart will ache when she dies.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">“Poor Aunt Kipp!” said Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000410">softly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">Mrs.&#160;Snow echoed the words,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and for a moment all thought pitifully of the woman whose life had given so little happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000413">whose age had won so little reverence,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and whose death would cause so little regret.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Even Toady had a kind thought for her,</span>
   <span id="f000416">as he broke the silence,</span>
   <span id="f000417">saying soberly,</span>
   <span id="f000418">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“You’d better put tails on my jackets,</span>
   <span id="f000420">mother;</span>
   <span id="f000421">then the next time we get run away with,</span>
   <span id="f000422">Aunt Kipp will have something to hold on by.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">It was impossible to help laughing at the recollection of the old lady clutching at the boy till he had hardly a button left,</span>
   <span id="f000424">and at the paternal air with which he now proposed a much-desired change of costume,</span>
   <span id="f000425">as if intent on Aunt Kipp’s future accommodation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">Under cover of the laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000427">the old lady stole back to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000428">wide awake,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and with subjects enough to meditate upon now.</span>
   <span id="f000430">The shaking up had certainly done her good,</span>
   <span id="f000431">for somehow the few virtues she possessed came to the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and the mental shower-bath just received had produced a salutary change.</span>
   <span id="f000433">Polly wouldn’t have doubted her aunt’s possession of a heart,</span>
   <span id="f000434">if she could have known the pain and loneliness that made it ache,</span>
   <span id="f000435">as the old woman crept away;</span>
   <span id="f000436">and Toady wouldn’t have laughed if he had seen the tears on the face,</span>
   <span id="f000437">between the big frills,</span>
   <span id="f000438">as Aunt Kipp laid it on the pillow,</span>
   <span id="f000439">muttering,</span>
   <span id="f000440">drearily,</span>
   <span id="f000441">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">“I might have been a happy,</span>
   <span id="f000443">useful woman,</span>
   <span id="f000444">but I didn’t choose to,</span>
   <span id="f000445">and now it’s too late.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">It <em>was</em> too late to be all she might have been,</span>
   <span id="f000447">for the work of seventy selfish years couldn’t be undone in a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000448">But with regret,</span>
   <span id="f000449">rose the sincere wish to earn a little love before the end came,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and the old perversity gave a relish to the reformation,</span>
   <span id="f000451">for even while she resolved to do the just and generous thing,</span>
   <span id="f000452">she said to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000453">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“They say I’ve got no heart;</span>
   <span id="f000455">I’ll show ’em that I have:</span>
   <span id="f000456">they don’t want my money;</span>
   <span id="f000457">I’ll <em>make</em> ’em take it:</span>
   <span id="f000458">they turn their backs on me;</span>
   <span id="f000459">I’ll just render myself so useful and agreeable that they can’t do without me.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

