<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Aunt Kipp</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">Aunt Kipp sat bolt upright in the parlor,</span>
   <span id="f000004">hemming a small handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000005">adorned with a red ship,</span>
   <span id="f000006">surrounded by a border of green monkeys.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Toady suspected that this elegant article of dress was intended for him,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and yearned to possess it;</span>
   <span id="f000009">so,</span>
   <span id="f000010">taking advantage of his mother’s and Polly’s absence,</span>
   <span id="f000011">he strolled into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and,</span>
   <span id="f000013">seating himself on a high,</span>
   <span id="f000014">hard chair,</span>
   <span id="f000015">folded his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000016">crossed his legs,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and asked for a story with the thirsting-for-knowledge air which little boys wear in the moral story-books.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">Now Aunt Kipp had one soft place in her heart,</span>
   <span id="f000019">though it <em>was</em> partially ossified,</span>
   <span id="f000020">as she very truly declared,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and Toady was enshrined therein.</span>
   <span id="f000022">She thought there never was such a child,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and loved him as she had done his father before him,</span>
   <span id="f000024">though the rack wouldn’t have forced her to confess it.</span>
   <span id="f000025">She scolded,</span>
   <span id="f000026">snubbed,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and predicted he’d come to a bad end in public;</span>
   <span id="f000028">but she forgave his naughtiest pranks,</span>
   <span id="f000029">always brought him something when she came,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and privately intended to make his future comfortable with half of her fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000031">There was a dash and daring,</span>
   <span id="f000032">a generosity and integrity,</span>
   <span id="f000033">about the little fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000034">that charmed her.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Sophy was weak and low-spirited,</span>
   <span id="f000036">Polly pretty and headstrong,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and Aunt Kipp didn’t think much of either of them;</span>
   <span id="f000038">but Toady defied,</span>
   <span id="f000039">distracted,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and delighted her,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and to Toady she clung,</span>
   <span id="f000042">as the one sunshiny thing in her sour,</span>
   <span id="f000043">selfish old age.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">When he made his demure request,</span>
   <span id="f000045">she looked at him,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and her eyes began to twinkle,</span>
   <span id="f000047">for the child’s purpose was plainly seen in the loving glances cast upon the pictorial pocket-handkerchief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“A story?</span>
   <span id="f000049">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000050">I’ll tell you one about a little boy who had a kind old – ahem!</span>
   <span id="f000051">– grandma.</span>
   <span id="f000052">She was rich,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and hadn’t made up her mind who she’d leave her money to.</span>
   <span id="f000054">She was fond of the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000055">– a deal fonder than he deserved,</span>
   <span id="f000056">– for he was as mischievous a monkey as any that ever lived in a tree,</span>
   <span id="f000057">with a curly tail.</span>
   <span id="f000058">He put pepper in her snuff-box,” – here Toady turned scarlett,</span>
   <span id="f000059">– “he cut up her bestt frisette to make a mane for his rocking-horse,” – Toady opened his mouth impulsively,</span>
   <span id="f000060">but shut it again without betraying himself – “he repeated rude things to her,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and called her ’an old aggrewater,’” – here Toady wriggled in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and gave a little gasp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“If you are tired I won’t go on,” observed Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000064">mildly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“I’m not tired,</span>
   <span id="f000066">’m;</span>
   <span id="f000067">it’s a very interesting story,” replied Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000068">with a gravity that nearly upset the old lady.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000070">in spite of all this,</span>
   <span id="f000071">that kind,</span>
   <span id="f000072">good,</span>
   <span id="f000073">forgiving grandma left that bad boy twenty thousand dollars when she died.</span>
   <span id="f000074">What do you think of that?” asked Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000075">pausing suddenly with her sharp eye on him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“I – I think she was a regular dear,” cried Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000077">holding on to the chair with both hands,</span>
   <span id="f000078">as if that climax rather took him off his legs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“And what did the boy do about it?” continued Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000080">curiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“He bought a velocipede,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and gave his sister half,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and paid his mother’s rent,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and put a splendid marble cherakin over the old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and had a jolly good time,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">“What in the world is a cherakin?” laughed Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000088">as Toady paused for breath.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000090">don’t you know?</span>
   <span id="f000091">It’s a angel crying,</span>
   <span id="f000092">or pointing up,</span>
   <span id="f000093">or flapping his wings.</span>
   <span id="f000094">They have them over graves;</span>
   <span id="f000095">and I’ll give you the biggest one I can find when you die.</span>
   <span id="f000096">But I’m not in a <em>very</em> great hurry to have you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“Thankee,</span>
   <span id="f000098">dear;</span>
   <span id="f000099">I’m in no hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000100">myself.</span>
   <span id="f000101">But,</span>
   <span id="f000102">Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000103">the boy did wrong in giving his sister half;</span>
   <span id="f000104">she didn’t deserve <em>any</em>;</span>
   <span id="f000105">and the grandma left word she wasn’t to have a penny of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Really?” cried the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000107">with a troubled face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000109">really.</span>
   <span id="f000110">If he gave her any he lost it all;</span>
   <span id="f000111">the old lady said so.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Now what do you think?” asked Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000113">who found it impossible to pardon Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000114">– perhaps because she was young,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and much beloved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">Toady’s eyes kindled,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and his red cheeks grew redder still,</span>
   <span id="f000119">as he cried out defiantly,</span>
   <span id="f000120">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“I think she was a selfish pig,</span>
   <span id="f000122">– don’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000124">I don’t,</span>
   <span id="f000125">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000126">and I’m sure that little boy wasn’t such a fool as to lose the money.</span>
   <span id="f000127">He minded his grandma’s wishes,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and kept it all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000130">he didn’t,” roared Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000131">tumbling off his chair in great excitement.</span>
   <span id="f000132">“He just threw it out a winder,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and smashed the old cherakin all to bits.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">Aunt Kipp dropped her work with a shrill squeak,</span>
   <span id="f000135">for she thought the boy was dangerous,</span>
   <span id="f000136">as he stood before her,</span>
   <span id="f000137">sparring away at nothing as the only vent for his indignation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“It isn’t an interesting story,” he cried;</span>
   <span id="f000139">“and I won’t hear any more;</span>
   <span id="f000140">and I won’t have your money if I mayn’t go halves with Polly;</span>
   <span id="f000141">and I’ll work to earn more than that,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and we’ll all be jolly together,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and you may give your twenty thousand to the old rag-bags,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and so I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000145">Aunt Kipp.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000147">Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000148">my boy,</span>
   <span id="f000149">what’s the matter?” cried a mild voice at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000150">as young Lamb came trotting up to the rescue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“Never you mind,</span>
   <span id="f000152">Baa-baa;</span>
   <span id="f000153">I shan’t do it;</span>
   <span id="f000154">and it’s a mean shame Polly can’t have half;</span>
   <span id="f000155">then she could marry you and be so happy,” blubbered Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000156">running to try to hide his tears of disappointment in the coat-skirts of his friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Mr.&#160;Lamb,</span>
   <span id="f000158">I suppose you <em>are</em> that misguided young man?” said Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000159">as if it was a personal insult to herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“Van Bahr Lamb,</span>
   <span id="f000161">ma’am,</span>
   <span id="f000162">if you please.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000164">thank you,” murmured Baa-Baa,</span>
   <span id="f000165">bowing,</span>
   <span id="f000166">blushing,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and rumpling his curly fleece in bashful trepidation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“Don’t thank me,” cried the old lady.</span>
   <span id="f000169">“I’m not going to give you anything,</span>
   <span id="f000170">– far from it.</span>
   <span id="f000171">I object to you altogether.</span>
   <span id="f000172">What business have you to come courting my niece?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Because I love her,</span>
   <span id="f000174">ma’am,” returned Van,</span>
   <span id="f000175">with unexpected spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000177">you don’t;</span>
   <span id="f000178">you want her money,</span>
   <span id="f000179">or rather my money.</span>
   <span id="f000180">She depends on it;</span>
   <span id="f000181">but you’ll both be disappointed,</span>
   <span id="f000182">for she won’t have a penny of it,” cried Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000183">who,</span>
   <span id="f000184">in spite of her good resolutions,</span>
   <span id="f000185">found it impossible to be amiable all at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“I’m glad of it!” burst out Van,</span>
   <span id="f000187">indignant at her accusation.</span>
   <span id="f000188">“I didn’t want Polly for the money;</span>
   <span id="f000189">I always doubted if she got it;</span>
   <span id="f000190">and I never wished her to make herself a slave to anybody.</span>
   <span id="f000191">I’ve got enough for all,</span>
   <span id="f000192">if we’re careful;</span>
   <span id="f000193">and when my share of the Van Bahr property comes,</span>
   <span id="f000194">we shall live in clover.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“What’s that?</span>
   <span id="f000196">What property are you talking of?” demanded Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000197">pricking up her ears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“The great Van Bahr estate,</span>
   <span id="f000199">ma’am.</span>
   <span id="f000200">There has been a long lawsuit about it,</span>
   <span id="f000201">but it’s nearly settled,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and there isn’t much doubt that we shall get it.</span>
   <span id="f000203">I am the last of our branch,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and my share will be a large one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000206">indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000207">I wish you joy,” said Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000208">with sudden affability;</span>
   <span id="f000209">for she adored wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000210">like a few other persons in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000211">“But suppose you don’t get it,</span>
   <span id="f000212">how then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“Then I shall try to be contented with my salary of two thousand,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and make Polly as happy as I can.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Money doesn’t <em>always</em> make people happy or agreeable,</span>
   <span id="f000216">I find.” And Van looked at Aunt Kipp in a way that would have made her hair stand erect if she had possessed any.</span>
   <span id="f000217">She stared at him a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000218">then,</span>
   <span id="f000219">obeying one of the odd whims that made an irascible weathercock of her,</span>
   <span id="f000220">she said,</span>
   <span id="f000221">abruptly,</span>
   <span id="f000222">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“If you had capital should you go into business for yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000224">Mr.&#160;Lambkin?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000226">ma’am,</span>
   <span id="f000227">at once,” replied Van,</span>
   <span id="f000228">promptly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“Suppose you lost the Van Bahr money,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and some one offered you a tidy little sum to start with,</span>
   <span id="f000231">would you take it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“It would depend upon who made the offer,</span>
   <span id="f000233">ma’am,” said Van,</span>
   <span id="f000234">looking more like a sheep than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000235">as he stood staring in blank surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“Suppose it was me,</span>
   <span id="f000237">wouldn’t you take it?” asked Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000238">blandly,</span>
   <span id="f000239">for the new fancy pleased her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000241">thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000242">ma’am,” said Van,</span>
   <span id="f000243">decidedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“And why not,</span>
   <span id="f000245">pray?” cried the old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000246">with a shrillness that made him jump,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and Toady back to the door precipitately.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“Because,</span>
   <span id="f000249">if you’ll excuse my speaking plainly,</span>
   <span id="f000250">I think you owe anything you may have to spare to your niece,</span>
   <span id="f000251">Mrs.&#160;Snow;” and,</span>
   <span id="f000252">having freed his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000253">Van joined Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000254">ready to fly if necessary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“You’re an idiot,</span>
   <span id="f000256">sir,” began Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000257">in a rage again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000259">ma’am.” And Van actually laughed and bowed in return for the compliment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“Hold your tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000261">sir,” snapped the old lady.</span>
   <span id="f000262">“You’re a fool and Sophy is another.</span>
   <span id="f000263">She’s no strength of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000264">no sense about anything;</span>
   <span id="f000265">and would make ducks and drakes of my money in less than no time if I gave it to her,</span>
   <span id="f000266">as I’ve thought of doing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“Mrs.&#160;Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000268">you forget who you are speaking to.</span>
   <span id="f000269">Mrs.&#160;Snow’s sons love and respect her if you don’t,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and they won’t hear anything untrue or unkind said of a good woman,</span>
   <span id="f000271">a devoted mother,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and an almost friendless widow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">Van wasn’t a dignified man at all,</span>
   <span id="f000274">but as he said that with a sudden flash of his mild eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000275">there was something in his face and manner that daunted Aunt Kipp more than the small fist belligerently shaken at her from behind the sofa.</span>
   <span id="f000276">The poor old soul was cross,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and worried,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and ashamed of herself,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and being as feeble-minded as Sophy in many respects,</span>
   <span id="f000280">she suddenly burst into tears,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and,</span>
   <span id="f000282">covering her face with the gay handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000283">cried as if bent on floating the red ship in a sea of salt water without delay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">“I’m a poor,</span>
   <span id="f000285">lonely,</span>
   <span id="f000286">abused old woman,” she moaned,</span>
   <span id="f000287">with a green monkey at each eye.</span>
   <span id="f000288">“No one loves me,</span>
   <span id="f000289">or minds me,</span>
   <span id="f000290">or thanks me when I want to help ’em.</span>
   <span id="f000291">My money’s only a worryment and a burden,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and I don’t know what to do with it,</span>
   <span id="f000293">for people I don’t want to leave it to ought to have it,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and people I do like won’t take it.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000296">deary me,</span>
   <span id="f000297">what <em>shall</em> I do!</span>
   <span id="f000298">what shall I do!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“Shall I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000300">ma’am?” asked Van,</span>
   <span id="f000301">gently,</span>
   <span id="f000302">for,</span>
   <span id="f000303">though she was a very provoking old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000304">he pitied and wished to help her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">A nod and a gurgle seemed to give consent,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and,</span>
   <span id="f000307">boldly advancing,</span>
   <span id="f000308">Van said,</span>
   <span id="f000309">with blush and a stammer,</span>
   <span id="f000310">but a very hearty voice,</span>
   <span id="f000311">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“I think,</span>
   <span id="f000313">ma’am,</span>
   <span id="f000314">if you’d do the right thing with your money you’d be at ease and find it saved a deal of worry all round.</span>
   <span id="f000315">Give it to Mrs.&#160;Snow;</span>
   <span id="f000316">she deserves it,</span>
   <span id="f000317">poor lady,</span>
   <span id="f000318">for she’s had a hard time,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and done her duty faithfully.</span>
   <span id="f000320">Don’t wait till you are – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000321">till you – well,</span>
   <span id="f000322">till you in point of fact die,</span>
   <span id="f000323">ma’am.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Give it now,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and enjoy the happiness it will make.</span>
   <span id="f000326">Give it kindly,</span>
   <span id="f000327">let them see you’re glad to do it,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and I am sure you’ll find them grateful;</span>
   <span id="f000329">I’m sure you won’t be lonely any more,</span>
   <span id="f000330">or feel that you are not loved and thanked.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Try it,</span>
   <span id="f000332">ma’am,</span>
   <span id="f000333">just try it,” cried Van,</span>
   <span id="f000334">getting excited by the picture he drew.</span>
   <span id="f000335">“And I give you my word I’ll do my best to respect and love you like a son,</span>
   <span id="f000336">ma’am.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">He knew that he was promising a great deal,</span>
   <span id="f000338">but for Polly’s sake he felt that he could make even that Herculean effort.</span>
   <span id="f000339">Aunt Kipp was surprised and touched;</span>
   <span id="f000340">but the contrary old lady couldn’t make up her mind to yield so soon,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and wouldn’t have done it if Toady hadn’t taken her by storm.</span>
   <span id="f000342">Having a truly masculine horror of tears,</span>
   <span id="f000343">a very tender heart under his tailless jacket,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and being much “tumbled up and down in his own mind” by the events of the week,</span>
   <span id="f000345">the poor little lad felt nerved to attempt any novel enterprise,</span>
   <span id="f000346">even that of voluntarily embracing Aunt Kipp.</span>
   <span id="f000347">First a grimy little hand came on her shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000348">as she sat sniffing behind the handkerchief;</span>
   <span id="f000349">then,</span>
   <span id="f000350">peeping out,</span>
   <span id="f000351">she saw an apple-cheeked face very near her own,</span>
   <span id="f000352">with eyes full of pity,</span>
   <span id="f000353">penitence,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and affection;</span>
   <span id="f000355">and then she heard a choky little voice say earnestly,</span>
   <span id="f000356">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“Don’t cry,</span>
   <span id="f000358">aunty;</span>
   <span id="f000359">I’m sorry I was rude.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Please be good to Mother and Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and I’ll love and take care of you,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and stand by you all my life.</span>
   <span id="f000363">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000364">I’ll – I’ll <em>kiss</em> you,</span>
   <span id="f000365">I will,</span>
   <span id="f000366">by George!” And with one promiscuous plunge the Spartan boy cast himself into her arms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">That finished Aunt Kipp;</span>
   <span id="f000368">she hugged him dose,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and cried out with a salute that went off like a pistol-shot,</span>
   <span id="f000370">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000372">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000373">my dear!</span>
   <span id="f000374">this is better than a dozen cherakins!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">When Toady emerged,</span>
   <span id="f000376">somewhat flushed and tumbled,</span>
   <span id="f000377">Mrs.&#160;Snow,</span>
   <span id="f000378">Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and Van were looking on with faces full of wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000380">doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000381">and satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000382">To be an object of interest was agreeable to Aunt Kipp;</span>
   <span id="f000383">and,</span>
   <span id="f000384">as her old heart was really softened,</span>
   <span id="f000385">she met them with a gracious smile,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and extended the olive-branch generally.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“Sophy,</span>
   <span id="f000388">I shall give my money to <em>you</em> at once and entirely,</span>
   <span id="f000389">only asking that you’ll let me stay with you when Polly’s gone.</span>
   <span id="f000390">I’ll do my best to be agreeable,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and you’ll bear with me because I’m a cranky,</span>
   <span id="f000392">solitary old woman,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and I loved your husband.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">Mrs.&#160;Snow hugged her on the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and gushed,</span>
   <span id="f000396">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000397">murmuring thanks,</span>
   <span id="f000398">welcomes,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and promises in one grateful burst.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">“Polly,</span>
   <span id="f000401">I forgive you;</span>
   <span id="f000402">I consent to your marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and will provide your wedding finery.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Mr.&#160;Lamb,</span>
   <span id="f000405">you are not a fool,</span>
   <span id="f000406">but a very excellent young man.</span>
   <span id="f000407">I thank you for saving my life,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and I wish you well with all my heart.</span>
   <span id="f000409">You needn’t say anything.</span>
   <span id="f000410">I’m far from strong,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and all this agitation is shortening my life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">Polly and Van shook her hand heartily,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and beamed upon each other like a pair of infatuated turtle-doves with good prospects.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000415">you are as near an angel as a boy can be.</span>
   <span id="f000416">Put a name to whatever you most wish for in the world,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and it’s yours,” said Aunt Kipp,</span>
   <span id="f000418">dramatically waving the rest away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">With his short legs wide apart,</span>
   <span id="f000420">his hands behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and his rosy face as round and radiant as a rising sun,</span>
   <span id="f000422">Toady stood before the fire surveying the scene with the air of a man who has successfully carried through a difficult and dangerous undertaking,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and wasn’t proud.</span>
   <span id="f000424">His face brightened,</span>
   <span id="f000425">then fell,</span>
   <span id="f000426">as he heaved a sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000427">and answered,</span>
   <span id="f000428">with a shake of his curly head,</span>
   <span id="f000429">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">“You can’t give me what I want most.</span>
   <span id="f000431">There are three things,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and I’ve got to wait for them all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“Gracious me,</span>
   <span id="f000434">what are they?” cried the old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000435">good-naturedly,</span>
   <span id="f000436">for she felt better already.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“A mustache,</span>
   <span id="f000438">a beaver,</span>
   <span id="f000439"><em>and</em> a sweetheart,” answered Toady,</span>
   <span id="f000440">with his eyes fixed wistfully on Baa-baa,</span>
   <span id="f000441">who possessed all these blessings,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and was particularly enjoying the latter at that moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">How Aunt Kipp did laugh at this early budding of romance in her pet!</span>
   <span id="f000444">And all the rest joined her,</span>
   <span id="f000445">for Toady’s sentimental air was irresistible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">“You precocious chick!</span>
   <span id="f000447">I dare say you will have them all before we know where we are.</span>
   <span id="f000448">Never mind,</span>
   <span id="f000449">deary;</span>
   <span id="f000450">you shall have my little watch,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and the silver-headed cane with a <em>boar’s</em> head on it,” answered the old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000452">in high good-humor.</span>
   <span id="f000453">“You needn’t blush,</span>
   <span id="f000454">dear;</span>
   <span id="f000455">I don’t bear malice;</span>
   <span id="f000456">so let’s forget and forgive.</span>
   <span id="f000457">I shall settle things to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and have a free mind.</span>
   <span id="f000459">You are welcome to my money,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and I hope I shall live to see you all enjoy it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">So she did;</span>
   <span id="f000462">for she lived to see Sophy plump,</span>
   <span id="f000463">cheery,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and care-free;</span>
   <span id="f000465">Polly surrounded by a flock of Lambkins;</span>
   <span id="f000466">Van in possession of a generous slice of the Van Bahr fortune;</span>
   <span id="f000467">Toady revelling in the objects of his desire;</span>
   <span id="f000468">and,</span>
   <span id="f000469">best of all,</span>
   <span id="f000470">she lived to find that it is never too late to make oneself useful,</span>
   <span id="f000471">happy,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and beloved.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

