<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part I</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">“…</span>
   <span id="f000003">But the Dwarf answered:</span>
   <span id="f000004">No;</span>
   <span id="f000005">something human is dearer to me than the wealth of all the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000006">Grimm’s Tales</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000007">To My Wife</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000008">Youth</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000009">This could have occurred nowhere but in England,</span>
   <span id="f000010">where men and sea interpenetrate,</span>
   <span id="f000011">so to speak – the sea entering into the life of most men,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and the men knowing something or everything about the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000013">in the way of amusement,</span>
   <span id="f000014">of travel,</span>
   <span id="f000015">or of bread-winning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">We were sitting round a mahogany table that reflected the bottle,</span>
   <span id="f000017">the claret-glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and our faces as we leaned on our elbows.</span>
   <span id="f000019">There was a director of companies,</span>
   <span id="f000020">an accountant,</span>
   <span id="f000021">a lawyer,</span>
   <span id="f000022">Marlow,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and myself.</span>
   <span id="f000024">The director had been a <em>Conway</em> boy,</span>
   <span id="f000025">the accountant had served four years at sea,</span>
   <span id="f000026">the lawyer – a fine crusted Tory,</span>
   <span id="f000027">High Churchman,</span>
   <span id="f000028">the best of old fellows,</span>
   <span id="f000029">the soul of honour – had been chief officer in the P.</span>
   <span id="f000030">&amp;</span>
   <span id="f000031">O.</span>
   <span id="f000032">service in the good old days when mail-boats were square-rigged at least on two masts,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and used to come down the China Sea before a fair monsoon with stun’-sails set alow and aloft.</span>
   <span id="f000034">We all began life in the merchant service.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Between the five of us there was the strong bond of the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and also the fellowship of the craft,</span>
   <span id="f000037">which no amount of enthusiasm for yachting,</span>
   <span id="f000038">cruising,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and so on can give,</span>
   <span id="f000040">since one is only the amusement of life and the other is life itself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">Marlow</span>
   <span id="f000042">(at least I think that is how he spelt his name)</span>
   <span id="f000043">told the story,</span>
   <span id="f000044">or rather the chronicle,</span>
   <span id="f000045">of a voyage:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000047">I have seen a little of the Eastern seas;</span>
   <span id="f000048">but what I remember best is my first voyage there.</span>
   <span id="f000049">You fellows know there are those voyages that seem ordered for the illustration of life,</span>
   <span id="f000050">that might stand for a symbol of existence.</span>
   <span id="f000051">You fight,</span>
   <span id="f000052">work,</span>
   <span id="f000053">sweat,</span>
   <span id="f000054">nearly kill yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000055">sometimes do kill yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000056">trying to accomplish something – and you can’t.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Not from any fault of yours.</span>
   <span id="f000058">You simply can do nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000059">neither great nor little – not a thing in the world – not even marry an old maid,</span>
   <span id="f000060">or get a wretched 600-ton cargo of coal to its port of destination.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">It was altogether a memorable affair.</span>
   <span id="f000062">It was my first voyage to the East,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and my first voyage as second mate;</span>
   <span id="f000064">it was also my skipper’s first command.</span>
   <span id="f000065">You’ll admit it was time.</span>
   <span id="f000066">He was sixty if a day;</span>
   <span id="f000067">a little man,</span>
   <span id="f000068">with a broad,</span>
   <span id="f000069">not very straight back,</span>
   <span id="f000070">with bowed shoulders and one leg more bandy than the other,</span>
   <span id="f000071">he had that queer twisted-about appearance you see so often in men who work in the fields.</span>
   <span id="f000072">He had a nut-cracker face – chin and nose trying to come together over a sunken mouth – and it was framed in iron-grey fluffy hair,</span>
   <span id="f000073">that looked like a chin strap of cotton-wool sprinkled with coal-dust.</span>
   <span id="f000074">And he had blue eyes in that old face of his,</span>
   <span id="f000075">which were amazingly like a boy’s,</span>
   <span id="f000076">with that candid expression some quite common men preserve to the end of their days by a rare internal gift of simplicity of heart and rectitude of soul.</span>
   <span id="f000077">What induced him to accept me was a wonder.</span>
   <span id="f000078">I had come out of a crack Australian clipper,</span>
   <span id="f000079">where I had been third officer,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and he seemed to have a prejudice against crack clippers as aristocratic and high-toned.</span>
   <span id="f000081">He said to me,</span>
   <span id="f000082">’You know,</span>
   <span id="f000083">in this ship you will have to work.’ I said I had to work in every ship I had ever been in.</span>
   <span id="f000084">’Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000085">but this is different,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and you gentlemen out of them big ships;…</span>
   <span id="f000087">but there!</span>
   <span id="f000088">I dare say you will do.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Join to-morrow.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">I joined to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000091">It was twenty-two years ago;</span>
   <span id="f000092">and I was just twenty.</span>
   <span id="f000093">How time passes!</span>
   <span id="f000094">It was one of the happiest days of my life.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Fancy!</span>
   <span id="f000096">Second mate for the first time – a really responsible officer!</span>
   <span id="f000097">I wouldn’t have thrown up my new billet for a fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000098">The mate looked me over carefully.</span>
   <span id="f000099">He was also an old chap,</span>
   <span id="f000100">but of another stamp.</span>
   <span id="f000101">He had a Roman nose,</span>
   <span id="f000102">a snow-white,</span>
   <span id="f000103">long beard,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and his name was Mahon,</span>
   <span id="f000105">but he insisted that it should be pronounced Mann.</span>
   <span id="f000106">He was well connected;</span>
   <span id="f000107">yet there was something wrong with his luck,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and he had never got on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">As to the captain,</span>
   <span id="f000110">he had been for years in coasters,</span>
   <span id="f000111">then in the Mediterranean,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and last in the West Indian trade.</span>
   <span id="f000113">He had never been round the Capes.</span>
   <span id="f000114">He could just write a kind of sketchy hand,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and didn’t care for writing at all.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Both were thorough good seamen of course,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and between those two old chaps I felt like a small boy between two grandfathers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">The ship also was old.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Her name was the <em>Judea</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Queer name,</span>
   <span id="f000121">isn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000122">She belonged to a man Wilmer,</span>
   <span id="f000123">Wilcox – some name like that;</span>
   <span id="f000124">but he has been bankrupt and dead these twenty years or more,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and his name don’t matter.</span>
   <span id="f000126">She had been laid up in Shadwell basin for ever so long.</span>
   <span id="f000127">You may imagine her state.</span>
   <span id="f000128">She was all rust,</span>
   <span id="f000129">dust,</span>
   <span id="f000130">grime – soot aloft,</span>
   <span id="f000131">dirt on deck.</span>
   <span id="f000132">To me it was like coming out of a palace into a ruined cottage.</span>
   <span id="f000133">She was about 400 tons,</span>
   <span id="f000134">had a primitive windlass,</span>
   <span id="f000135">wooden latches to the doors,</span>
   <span id="f000136">not a bit of brass about her,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and a big square stern.</span>
   <span id="f000138">There was on it,</span>
   <span id="f000139">below her name in big letters,</span>
   <span id="f000140">a lot of scroll work,</span>
   <span id="f000141">with the gilt off,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and some sort of a coat of arms,</span>
   <span id="f000143">with the motto ’Do or Die’ underneath.</span>
   <span id="f000144">I remember it took my fancy immensely.</span>
   <span id="f000145">There was a touch of romance in it,</span>
   <span id="f000146">something that made me love the old thing – something that appealed to my youth!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">We left London in ballast – sand ballast – to load a cargo of coal in a northern port for Bankok.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Bankok!</span>
   <span id="f000149">I thrilled.</span>
   <span id="f000150">I had been six years at sea,</span>
   <span id="f000151">but had only seen Melbourne and Sydney,</span>
   <span id="f000152">very good places,</span>
   <span id="f000153">charming places in their way – but Bankok!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">We worked out of the Thames under canvas,</span>
   <span id="f000155">with a North Sea pilot on board.</span>
   <span id="f000156">His name was Jermyn,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and he dodged all day long about the galley drying his handkerchief before the stove.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Apparently he never slept.</span>
   <span id="f000159">He was a dismal man,</span>
   <span id="f000160">with a perpetual tear sparkling at the end of his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000161">who either had been in trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000162">or was in trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000163">or expected to be in trouble – couldn’t be happy unless something went wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000164">He mistrusted my youth,</span>
   <span id="f000165">my common-sense,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and my seamanship,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and made a point of showing it in a hundred little ways.</span>
   <span id="f000168">I dare say he was right.</span>
   <span id="f000169">It seems to me I knew very little then,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and I know not much more now;</span>
   <span id="f000171">but I cherish a hate for that Jermyn to this day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">We were a week working up as far as Yarmouth Roads,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and then we got into a gale – the famous October gale of twenty-two years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000174">It was wind,</span>
   <span id="f000175">lightning,</span>
   <span id="f000176">sleet,</span>
   <span id="f000177">snow,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and a terrific sea.</span>
   <span id="f000179">We were flying light,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and you may imagine how bad it was when I tell you we had smashed bulwarks and a flooded deck.</span>
   <span id="f000181">On the second night she shifted her ballast into the lee bow,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and by that time we had been blown off somewhere on the Dogger Bank.</span>
   <span id="f000183">There was nothing for it but go below with shovels and try to right her,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and there we were in that vast hold,</span>
   <span id="f000185">gloomy like a cavern,</span>
   <span id="f000186">the tallow dips stuck and flickering on the beams,</span>
   <span id="f000187">the gale howling above,</span>
   <span id="f000188">the ship tossing about like mad on her side;</span>
   <span id="f000189">there we all were,</span>
   <span id="f000190">Jermyn,</span>
   <span id="f000191">the captain,</span>
   <span id="f000192">everyone,</span>
   <span id="f000193">hardly able to keep our feet,</span>
   <span id="f000194">engaged on that gravedigger’s work,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and trying to toss shovelfuls of wet sand up to windward.</span>
   <span id="f000196">At every tumble of the ship you could see vaguely in the dim light men falling down with a great flourish of shovels.</span>
   <span id="f000197">One of the ship’s boys</span>
   <span id="f000198">(we had two),</span>
   <span id="f000199">impressed by the weirdness of the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000200">wept as if his heart would break.</span>
   <span id="f000201">We could hear him blubbering somewhere in the shadows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">On the third day the gale died out,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and by-and-by a north-country tug picked us up.</span>
   <span id="f000204">We took sixteen days in all to get from London to the Tyne!</span>
   <span id="f000205">When we got into dock we had lost our turn for loading,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and they hauled us off to a tier where we remained for a month.</span>
   <span id="f000207">Mrs.&#160;Beard</span>
   <span id="f000208">(the captain’s name was Beard)</span>
   <span id="f000209">came from Colchester to see the old man.</span>
   <span id="f000210">She lived on board.</span>
   <span id="f000211">The crew of runners had left,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and there remained only the officers,</span>
   <span id="f000213">one boy,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and the steward,</span>
   <span id="f000215">a mulatto who answered to the name of Abraham.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Mrs.&#160;Beard was an old woman,</span>
   <span id="f000217">with a face all wrinkled and ruddy like a winter apple,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and the figure of a young girl.</span>
   <span id="f000219">She caught sight of me once,</span>
   <span id="f000220">sewing on a button,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and insisted on having my shirts to repair.</span>
   <span id="f000222">This was something different from the captains’ wives I had known on board crack clippers.</span>
   <span id="f000223">When I brought her the shirts,</span>
   <span id="f000224">she said:</span>
   <span id="f000225">’And the socks?</span>
   <span id="f000226">They want mending,</span>
   <span id="f000227">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and John’s – Captain Beard’s – things are all in order now.</span>
   <span id="f000229">I would be glad of something to do.’ Bless the old woman!</span>
   <span id="f000230">She overhauled my outfit for me,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and meantime I read for the first time <em>Sartor Resartus</em> and Burnaby’s <em>Ride to Khiva</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000232">I didn’t understand much of the first then;</span>
   <span id="f000233">but I remember I preferred the soldier to the philosopher at the time;</span>
   <span id="f000234">a preference which life has only confirmed.</span>
   <span id="f000235">One was a man,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and the other was either more – or less.</span>
   <span id="f000237">However,</span>
   <span id="f000238">they are both dead,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and Mrs.&#160;Beard is dead,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and youth,</span>
   <span id="f000241">strength,</span>
   <span id="f000242">genius,</span>
   <span id="f000243">thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000244">achievements,</span>
   <span id="f000245">simple hearts – all dies …</span>
   <span id="f000246">No matter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">They loaded us at last.</span>
   <span id="f000248">We shipped a crew.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Eight able seamen and two boys.</span>
   <span id="f000250">We hauled off one evening to the buoys at the dock-gates,</span>
   <span id="f000251">ready to go out,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and with a fair prospect of beginning the voyage next day.</span>
   <span id="f000253">Mrs.&#160;Beard was to start for home by a late train.</span>
   <span id="f000254">When the ship was fast we went to tea.</span>
   <span id="f000255">We sat rather silent through the meal – Mahon,</span>
   <span id="f000256">the old couple,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and I.</span>
   <span id="f000258">I finished first,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and slipped away for a smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000260">my cabin being in a deck-house just against the poop.</span>
   <span id="f000261">It was high water,</span>
   <span id="f000262">blowing fresh with a drizzle;</span>
   <span id="f000263">the double dock-gates were opened,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and the steam colliers were going in and out in the darkness with their lights burning bright,</span>
   <span id="f000265">a great plashing of propellers,</span>
   <span id="f000266">rattling of winches,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and a lot of hailing on the pier-heads.</span>
   <span id="f000268">I watched the procession of head-lights gliding high and of green lights gliding low in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000269">when suddenly a red gleam flashed at me,</span>
   <span id="f000270">vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000271">came into view again,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and remained.</span>
   <span id="f000273">The fore-end of a steamer loomed up close.</span>
   <span id="f000274">I shouted down the cabin,</span>
   <span id="f000275">’Come up,</span>
   <span id="f000276">quick!’ and then heard a startled voice saying afar in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000277">’Stop her,</span>
   <span id="f000278">sir.’ A bell jingled.</span>
   <span id="f000279">Another voice cried warningly,</span>
   <span id="f000280">’We are going right into that barque,</span>
   <span id="f000281">sir.’ The answer to this was a gruff ’All right,’ and the next thing was a heavy crash as the steamer struck a glancing blow with the bluff of her bow about our fore-rigging.</span>
   <span id="f000282">There was a moment of confusion,</span>
   <span id="f000283">yelling,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and running about.</span>
   <span id="f000285">Steam roared.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Then somebody was heard saying,</span>
   <span id="f000287">’All clear,</span>
   <span id="f000288">sir.’…</span>
   <span id="f000289">’Are you all right?’ asked the gruff voice.</span>
   <span id="f000290">I had jumped forward to see the damage,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and hailed back,</span>
   <span id="f000292">’I think so.’ ’Easy astern,’ said the gruff voice.</span>
   <span id="f000293">A bell jingled.</span>
   <span id="f000294">’What steamer is that?’ screamed Mahon.</span>
   <span id="f000295">By that time she was no more to us than a bulky shadow maneuvering a little way off.</span>
   <span id="f000296">They shouted at us some name – a woman’s name,</span>
   <span id="f000297">Miranda or Melissa – or some such thing.</span>
   <span id="f000298">’This means another month in this beastly hole,’ said Mahon to me,</span>
   <span id="f000299">as we peered with lamps about the splintered bulwarks and broken braces.</span>
   <span id="f000300">’But where’s the captain?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">We had not heard or seen anything of him all that time.</span>
   <span id="f000302">We went aft to look.</span>
   <span id="f000303">A doleful voice arose hailing somewhere in the middle of the dock,</span>
   <span id="f000304">’<em>Judea</em> ahoy!’…</span>
   <span id="f000305">How the devil did he get there?…</span>
   <span id="f000306">’Hallo!’ we shouted.</span>
   <span id="f000307">’I am adrift in our boat without oars,’ he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000308">A belated waterman offered his services,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and Mahon struck a bargain with him for half-a-crown to tow our skipper alongside;</span>
   <span id="f000310">but it was Mrs.&#160;Beard that came up the ladder first.</span>
   <span id="f000311">They had been floating about the dock in that mizzly cold rain for nearly an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000312">I was never so surprised in my life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">It appears that when he heard my shout ’Come up,’ he understood at once what was the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000314">caught up his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000315">ran on deck,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and across,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and down into our boat,</span>
   <span id="f000318">which was fast to the ladder.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Not bad for a sixty-year-old.</span>
   <span id="f000320">Just imagine that old fellow saving heroically in his arms that old woman – the woman of his life.</span>
   <span id="f000321">He set her down on a thwart,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and was ready to climb back on board when the painter came adrift somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and away they went together.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Of course in the confusion we did not hear him shouting.</span>
   <span id="f000325">He looked abashed.</span>
   <span id="f000326">She said cheerfully,</span>
   <span id="f000327">’I suppose it does not matter my losing the train now?’ ’No,</span>
   <span id="f000328">Jenny – you go below and get warm,’ he growled.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Then to us:</span>
   <span id="f000330">’A sailor has no business with a wife – I say.</span>
   <span id="f000331">There I was,</span>
   <span id="f000332">out of the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000334">no harm done this time.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Let’s go and look at what that fool of a steamer smashed.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">It wasn’t much,</span>
   <span id="f000337">but it delayed us three weeks.</span>
   <span id="f000338">At the end of that time,</span>
   <span id="f000339">the captain being engaged with his agents,</span>
   <span id="f000340">I carried Mrs.&#160;Beard’s bag to the railway-station and put her all comfy into a third-class carriage.</span>
   <span id="f000341">She lowered the window to say,</span>
   <span id="f000342">’You are a good young man.</span>
   <span id="f000343">If you see John – Captain Beard – without his muffler at night,</span>
   <span id="f000344">just remind him from me to keep his throat well wrapped up.’ ’Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000345">Mrs.&#160;Beard,’ I said.</span>
   <span id="f000346">’You are a good young man;</span>
   <span id="f000347">I noticed how attentive you are to John – to Captain – ’ The train pulled out suddenly;</span>
   <span id="f000348">I took my cap off to the old woman:</span>
   <span id="f000349">I never saw her again…</span>
   <span id="f000350">Pass the bottle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">We went to sea next day.</span>
   <span id="f000352">When we made that start for Bankok we had been already three months out of London.</span>
   <span id="f000353">We had expected to be a fortnight or so – at the outside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">It was January,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and the weather was beautiful – the beautiful sunny winter weather that has more charm than in the summer-time,</span>
   <span id="f000356">because it is unexpected,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and crisp,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and you know it won’t,</span>
   <span id="f000359">it can’t,</span>
   <span id="f000360">last long.</span>
   <span id="f000361">It’s like a windfall,</span>
   <span id="f000362">like a godsend,</span>
   <span id="f000363">like an unexpected piece of luck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">It lasted all down the North Sea,</span>
   <span id="f000365">all down Channel;</span>
   <span id="f000366">and it lasted till we were three hundred miles or so to the westward of the Lizards:</span>
   <span id="f000367">then the wind went round to the sou’west and began to pipe up.</span>
   <span id="f000368">In two days it blew a gale.</span>
   <span id="f000369">The <em>Judea</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000370">hove to,</span>
   <span id="f000371">wallowed on the Atlantic like an old candlebox.</span>
   <span id="f000372">It blew day after day:</span>
   <span id="f000373">it blew with spite,</span>
   <span id="f000374">without interval,</span>
   <span id="f000375">without mercy,</span>
   <span id="f000376">without rest.</span>
   <span id="f000377">The world was nothing but an immensity of great foaming waves rushing at us,</span>
   <span id="f000378">under a sky low enough to touch with the hand and dirty like a smoked ceiling.</span>
   <span id="f000379">In the stormy space surrounding us there was as much flying spray as air.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Day after day and night after night there was nothing round the ship but the howl of the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000381">the tumult of the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000382">the noise of water pouring over her deck.</span>
   <span id="f000383">There was no rest for her and no rest for us.</span>
   <span id="f000384">She tossed,</span>
   <span id="f000385">she pitched,</span>
   <span id="f000386">she stood on her head,</span>
   <span id="f000387">she sat on her tail,</span>
   <span id="f000388">she rolled,</span>
   <span id="f000389">she groaned,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and we had to hold on while on deck and cling to our bunks when below,</span>
   <span id="f000391">in a constant effort of body and worry of mind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">One night Mahon spoke through the small window of my berth.</span>
   <span id="f000393">It opened right into my very bed,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and I was lying there sleepless,</span>
   <span id="f000395">in my boots,</span>
   <span id="f000396">feeling as though I had not slept for years,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and could not if I tried.</span>
   <span id="f000398">He said excitedly –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">’You got the sounding-rod in here,</span>
   <span id="f000400">Marlow?</span>
   <span id="f000401">I can’t get the pumps to suck.</span>
   <span id="f000402">By God!</span>
   <span id="f000403">it’s no child’s play.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">I gave him the sounding-rod and lay down again,</span>
   <span id="f000405">trying to think of various things – but I thought only of the pumps.</span>
   <span id="f000406">When I came on deck they were still at it,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and my watch relieved at the pumps.</span>
   <span id="f000408">By the light of the lantern brought on deck to examine the sounding-rod I caught a glimpse of their weary,</span>
   <span id="f000409">serious faces.</span>
   <span id="f000410">We pumped all the four hours.</span>
   <span id="f000411">We pumped all night,</span>
   <span id="f000412">all day,</span>
   <span id="f000413">all the week,</span>
   <span id="f000414">– watch and watch.</span>
   <span id="f000415">She was working herself loose,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and leaked badly – not enough to drown us at once,</span>
   <span id="f000417">but enough to kill us with the work at the pumps.</span>
   <span id="f000418">And while we pumped the ship was going from us piecemeal:</span>
   <span id="f000419">the bulwarks went,</span>
   <span id="f000420">the stanchions were torn out,</span>
   <span id="f000421">the ventilators smashed,</span>
   <span id="f000422">the cabin-door burst in.</span>
   <span id="f000423">There was not a dry spot in the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000424">She was being gutted bit by bit.</span>
   <span id="f000425">The long-boat changed,</span>
   <span id="f000426">as if by magic,</span>
   <span id="f000427">into matchwood where she stood in her gripes.</span>
   <span id="f000428">I had lashed her myself,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and was rather proud of my handiwork,</span>
   <span id="f000430">which had withstood so long the malice of the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000431">And we pumped.</span>
   <span id="f000432">And there was no break in the weather.</span>
   <span id="f000433">The sea was white like a sheet of foam,</span>
   <span id="f000434">like a caldron of boiling milk;</span>
   <span id="f000435">there was not a break in the clouds,</span>
   <span id="f000436">no – not the size of a man’s hand – no,</span>
   <span id="f000437">not for so much as ten seconds.</span>
   <span id="f000438">There was for us no sky,</span>
   <span id="f000439">there were for us no stars,</span>
   <span id="f000440">no sun,</span>
   <span id="f000441">no universe – nothing but angry clouds and an infuriated sea.</span>
   <span id="f000442">We pumped watch and watch,</span>
   <span id="f000443">for dear life;</span>
   <span id="f000444">and it seemed to last for months,</span>
   <span id="f000445">for years,</span>
   <span id="f000446">for all eternity,</span>
   <span id="f000447">as though we had been dead and gone to a hell for sailors.</span>
   <span id="f000448">We forgot the day of the week,</span>
   <span id="f000449">the name of the month,</span>
   <span id="f000450">what year it was,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and whether we had ever been ashore.</span>
   <span id="f000452">The sails blew away,</span>
   <span id="f000453">she lay broadside on under a weather-cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000454">the ocean poured over her,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and we did not care.</span>
   <span id="f000456">We turned those handles,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and had the eyes of idiots.</span>
   <span id="f000458">As soon as we had crawled on deck I used to take a round turn with a rope about the men,</span>
   <span id="f000459">the pumps,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and the mainmast,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and we turned,</span>
   <span id="f000462">we turned incessantly,</span>
   <span id="f000463">with the water to our waists,</span>
   <span id="f000464">to our necks,</span>
   <span id="f000465">over our heads.</span>
   <span id="f000466">It was all one.</span>
   <span id="f000467">We had forgotten how it felt to be dry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">And there was somewhere in me the thought:</span>
   <span id="f000469">By Jove!</span>
   <span id="f000470">this is the deuce of an adventure – something you read about;</span>
   <span id="f000471">and it is my first voyage as second mate – and I am only twenty – and here I am lasting it out as well as any of these men,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and keeping my chaps up to the mark.</span>
   <span id="f000473">I was pleased.</span>
   <span id="f000474">I would not have given up the experience for worlds.</span>
   <span id="f000475">I had moments of exultation.</span>
   <span id="f000476">Whenever the old dismantled craft pitched heavily with her counter high in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000477">she seemed to me to throw up,</span>
   <span id="f000478">like an appeal,</span>
   <span id="f000479">like a defiance,</span>
   <span id="f000480">like a cry to the clouds without mercy,</span>
   <span id="f000481">the words written on her stern:</span>
   <span id="f000482">’<em>Judea</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000483">London.</span>
   <span id="f000484">Do or Die.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">O youth!</span>
   <span id="f000486">The strength of it,</span>
   <span id="f000487">the faith of it,</span>
   <span id="f000488">the imagination of it!</span>
   <span id="f000489">To me she was not an old rattle-trap carting about the world a lot of coal for a freight – to me she was the endeavour,</span>
   <span id="f000490">the test,</span>
   <span id="f000491">the trial of life.</span>
   <span id="f000492">I think of her with pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f000493">with affection,</span>
   <span id="f000494">with regret – as you would think of someone dead you have loved.</span>
   <span id="f000495">I shall never forget her…</span>
   <span id="f000496">Pass the bottle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">One night when tied to the mast,</span>
   <span id="f000498">as I explained,</span>
   <span id="f000499">we were pumping on,</span>
   <span id="f000500">deafened with the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and without spirit enough in us to wish ourselves dead,</span>
   <span id="f000502">a heavy sea crashed aboard and swept clean over us.</span>
   <span id="f000503">As soon as I got my breath I shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000504">as in duty bound,</span>
   <span id="f000505">’Keep on,</span>
   <span id="f000506">boys!’ when suddenly I felt something hard floating on deck strike the calf of my leg.</span>
   <span id="f000507">I made a grab at it and missed.</span>
   <span id="f000508">It was so dark we could not see each other’s faces within a foot – you understand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">After that thump the ship kept quiet for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and the thing,</span>
   <span id="f000511">whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f000512">struck my leg again.</span>
   <span id="f000513">This time I caught it – and it was a saucepan.</span>
   <span id="f000514">At first,</span>
   <span id="f000515">being stupid with fatigue and thinking of nothing but the pumps,</span>
   <span id="f000516">I did not understand what I had in my hand.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Suddenly it dawned upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000518">and I shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000519">’Boys,</span>
   <span id="f000520">the house on deck is gone.</span>
   <span id="f000521">Leave this,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and let’s look for the cook.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">There was a deck-house forward,</span>
   <span id="f000524">which contained the galley,</span>
   <span id="f000525">the cook’s berth,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and the quarters of the crew.</span>
   <span id="f000527">As we had expected for days to see it swept away,</span>
   <span id="f000528">the hands had been ordered to sleep in the cabin – the only safe place in the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000529">The steward,</span>
   <span id="f000530">Abraham,</span>
   <span id="f000531">however,</span>
   <span id="f000532">persisted in clinging to his berth,</span>
   <span id="f000533">stupidly,</span>
   <span id="f000534">like a mule – from sheer fright I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000535">like an animal that won’t leave a stable falling in an earthquake.</span>
   <span id="f000536">So we went to look for him.</span>
   <span id="f000537">It was chancing death,</span>
   <span id="f000538">since once out of our lashings we were as exposed as if on a raft.</span>
   <span id="f000539">But we went.</span>
   <span id="f000540">The house was shattered as if a shell had exploded inside.</span>
   <span id="f000541">Most of it had gone overboard – stove,</span>
   <span id="f000542">men’s quarters,</span>
   <span id="f000543">and their property,</span>
   <span id="f000544">all was gone;</span>
   <span id="f000545">but two posts,</span>
   <span id="f000546">holding a portion of the bulkhead to which Abraham’s bunk was attached,</span>
   <span id="f000547">remained as if by a miracle.</span>
   <span id="f000548">We groped in the ruins and came upon this,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and there he was,</span>
   <span id="f000550">sitting in his bunk,</span>
   <span id="f000551">surrounded by foam and wreckage,</span>
   <span id="f000552">jabbering cheerfully to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000553">He was out of his mind;</span>
   <span id="f000554">completely and for ever mad,</span>
   <span id="f000555">with this sudden shock coming upon the fag-end of his endurance.</span>
   <span id="f000556">We snatched him up,</span>
   <span id="f000557">lugged him aft,</span>
   <span id="f000558">and pitched him head-first down the cabin companion.</span>
   <span id="f000559">You understand there was no time to carry him down with infinite precautions and wait to see how he got on.</span>
   <span id="f000560">Those below would pick him up at the bottom of the stairs all right.</span>
   <span id="f000561">We were in a hurry to go back to the pumps.</span>
   <span id="f000562">That business could not wait.</span>
   <span id="f000563">A bad leak is an inhuman thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000564">One would think that the sole purpose of that fiendish gale had been to make a lunatic of that poor devil of a mulatto.</span>
   <span id="f000565">It eased before morning,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and next day the sky cleared,</span>
   <span id="f000567">and as the sea went down the leak took up.</span>
   <span id="f000568">When it came to bending a fresh set of sails the crew demanded to put back – and really there was nothing else to do.</span>
   <span id="f000569">Boats gone,</span>
   <span id="f000570">decks swept clean,</span>
   <span id="f000571">cabin gutted,</span>
   <span id="f000572">men without a stitch but what they stood in,</span>
   <span id="f000573">stores spoiled,</span>
   <span id="f000574">ship strained.</span>
   <span id="f000575">We put her head for home,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and – would you believe it?</span>
   <span id="f000577">The wind came east right in our teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000578">It blew fresh,</span>
   <span id="f000579">it blew continuously.</span>
   <span id="f000580">We had to beat up every inch of the way,</span>
   <span id="f000581">but she did not leak so badly,</span>
   <span id="f000582">the water keeping comparatively smooth.</span>
   <span id="f000583">Two hours’ pumping in every four is no joke – but it kept her afloat as far as Falmouth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000584">The good people there live on casualties of the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and no doubt were glad to see us.</span>
   <span id="f000586">A hungry crowd of shipwrights sharpened their chisels at the sight of that carcass of a ship.</span>
   <span id="f000587">And,</span>
   <span id="f000588">by Jove!</span>
   <span id="f000589">they had pretty pickings off us before they were done.</span>
   <span id="f000590">I fancy the owner was already in a tight place.</span>
   <span id="f000591">There were delays.</span>
   <span id="f000592">Then it was decided to take part of the cargo out and calk her topsides.</span>
   <span id="f000593">This was done,</span>
   <span id="f000594">the repairs finished,</span>
   <span id="f000595">cargo re-shipped;</span>
   <span id="f000596">a new crew came on board,</span>
   <span id="f000597">and we went out – for Bankok.</span>
   <span id="f000598">At the end of a week we were back again.</span>
   <span id="f000599">The crew said they weren’t going to Bankok – a hundred and fifty days’ passage – in a something hooker that wanted pumping eight hours out of the twenty-four;</span>
   <span id="f000600">and the nautical papers inserted again the little paragraph:</span>
   <span id="f000601"><em>’Judea</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000602">Barque.</span>
   <span id="f000603">Tyne to Bankok;</span>
   <span id="f000604">coals;</span>
   <span id="f000605">put back to Falmouth leaky and with crew refusing duty.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">There were more delays – more tinkering.</span>
   <span id="f000607">The owner came down for a day,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and said she was as right as a little fiddle.</span>
   <span id="f000609">Poor old Captain Beard looked like the ghost of a Geordie skipper – through the worry and humiliation of it.</span>
   <span id="f000610">Remember he was sixty,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and it was his first command.</span>
   <span id="f000612">Mahon said it was a foolish business,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and would end badly.</span>
   <span id="f000614">I loved the ship more than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and wanted awfully to get to Bankok.</span>
   <span id="f000616">To Bankok!</span>
   <span id="f000617">Magic name,</span>
   <span id="f000618">blessed name.</span>
   <span id="f000619">Mesopotamia wasn’t a patch on it.</span>
   <span id="f000620">Remember I was twenty,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and it was my first second mate’s billet,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and the East was waiting for me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">We went out and anchored in the outer roads with a fresh crew – the third.</span>
   <span id="f000624">She leaked worse than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000625">It was as if those confounded shipwrights had actually made a hole in her.</span>
   <span id="f000626">This time we did not even go outside.</span>
   <span id="f000627">The crew simply refused to man the windlass.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

