<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">They towed us back to the inner harbour,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and we became a fixture,</span>
   <span id="f000004">a feature,</span>
   <span id="f000005">an institution of the place.</span>
   <span id="f000006">People pointed us out to visitors as ’That ’ere bark that’s going to Bankok – has been here six months – put back three times.’ On holidays the small boys pulling about in boats would hail,</span>
   <span id="f000007">’<em>Judea</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000008">ahoy!’ and if a head showed above the rail shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000009">’Where you bound to?</span>
   <span id="f000010">– Bankok?’ and jeered.</span>
   <span id="f000011">We were only three on board.</span>
   <span id="f000012">The poor old skipper mooned in the cabin.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Mahon undertook the cooking,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and unexpectedly developed all a Frenchman’s genius for preparing nice little messes.</span>
   <span id="f000015">I looked languidly after the rigging.</span>
   <span id="f000016">We became citizens of Falmouth.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Every shopkeeper knew us.</span>
   <span id="f000018">At the barber’s or tobacconist’s they asked familiarly,</span>
   <span id="f000019">’Do you think you will ever get to Bankok?’ Meantime the owner,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the underwriters,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and the charterers squabbled amongst themselves in London,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and our pay went on…</span>
   <span id="f000023">Pass the bottle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">It was horrid.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Morally it was worse than pumping for life.</span>
   <span id="f000026">It seemed as though we had been forgotten by the world,</span>
   <span id="f000027">belonged to nobody,</span>
   <span id="f000028">would get nowhere;</span>
   <span id="f000029">it seemed that,</span>
   <span id="f000030">as if bewitched,</span>
   <span id="f000031">we would have to live for ever and ever in that inner harbour,</span>
   <span id="f000032">a derision and a by-word to generations of long-shore loafers and dishonest boatmen.</span>
   <span id="f000033">I obtained three months’ pay and a five days’ leave,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and made a rush for London.</span>
   <span id="f000035">It took me a day to get there and pretty well another to come back – but three months’ pay went all the same.</span>
   <span id="f000036">I don’t know what I did with it.</span>
   <span id="f000037">I went to a music-hall,</span>
   <span id="f000038">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000039">lunched,</span>
   <span id="f000040">dined,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and supped in a swell place in Regent Street,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and was back to time,</span>
   <span id="f000043">with nothing but a complete set of Byron’s works and a new railway rug to show for three months’ work.</span>
   <span id="f000044">The boatman who pulled me off to the ship said:</span>
   <span id="f000045">’Hallo!</span>
   <span id="f000046">I thought you had left the old thing.</span>
   <span id="f000047"><em>She</em> will never get to Bankok.’ ’That’s all <em>you</em> know about it,’ I said scornfully – but I didn’t like that prophecy at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">Suddenly a man,</span>
   <span id="f000049">some kind of agent to somebody,</span>
   <span id="f000050">appeared with full powers.</span>
   <span id="f000051">He had grog-blossoms all over his face,</span>
   <span id="f000052">an indomitable energy,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and was a jolly soul.</span>
   <span id="f000054">We leaped into life again.</span>
   <span id="f000055">A hulk came alongside,</span>
   <span id="f000056">took our cargo,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and then we went into dry dock to get our copper stripped.</span>
   <span id="f000058">No wonder she leaked.</span>
   <span id="f000059">The poor thing,</span>
   <span id="f000060">strained beyond endurance by the gale,</span>
   <span id="f000061">had,</span>
   <span id="f000062">as if in disgust,</span>
   <span id="f000063">spat out all the oakum of her lower seams.</span>
   <span id="f000064">She was recalked,</span>
   <span id="f000065">new coppered,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and made as tight as a bottle.</span>
   <span id="f000067">We went back to the hulk and re-shipped our cargo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">Then on a fine moonlight night,</span>
   <span id="f000069">all the rats left the ship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">We had been infested with them.</span>
   <span id="f000071">They had destroyed our sails,</span>
   <span id="f000072">consumed more stores than the crew,</span>
   <span id="f000073">affably shared our beds and our dangers,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and now,</span>
   <span id="f000075">when the ship was made seaworthy,</span>
   <span id="f000076">concluded to clear out.</span>
   <span id="f000077">I called Mahon to enjoy the spectacle.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Rat after rat appeared on our rail,</span>
   <span id="f000079">took a last look over his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and leaped with a hollow thud into the empty hulk.</span>
   <span id="f000081">We tried to count them,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but soon lost the tale.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Mahon said:</span>
   <span id="f000084">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000085">well!</span>
   <span id="f000086">don’t talk to me about the intelligence of rats.</span>
   <span id="f000087">They ought to have left before,</span>
   <span id="f000088">when we had that narrow squeak from foundering.</span>
   <span id="f000089">There you have the proof how silly is the superstition about them.</span>
   <span id="f000090">They leave a good ship for an old rotten hulk,</span>
   <span id="f000091">where there is nothing to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000092">too,</span>
   <span id="f000093">the fools!…</span>
   <span id="f000094">I don’t believe they know what is safe or what is good for them,</span>
   <span id="f000095">any more than you or I.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">And after some more talk we agreed that the wisdom of rats had been grossly overrated,</span>
   <span id="f000097">being in fact no greater than that of men.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">The story of the ship was known,</span>
   <span id="f000099">by this,</span>
   <span id="f000100">all up the Channel from Land’s End to the Forelands,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and we could get no crew on the south coast.</span>
   <span id="f000102">They sent us one all complete from Liverpool,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and we left once more – for Bankok.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">We had fair breezes,</span>
   <span id="f000105">smooth water right into the tropics,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and the old Judea lumbered along in the sunshine.</span>
   <span id="f000107">When she went eight knots everything cracked aloft,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and we tied our caps to our heads;</span>
   <span id="f000109">but mostly she strolled on at the rate of three miles an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000110">What could you expect?</span>
   <span id="f000111">She was tired – that old ship.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Her youth was where mine is – where yours is – you fellows who listen to this yarn;</span>
   <span id="f000113">and what friend would throw your years and your weariness in your face?</span>
   <span id="f000114">We didn’t grumble at her.</span>
   <span id="f000115">To us aft,</span>
   <span id="f000116">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000117">it seemed as though we had been born in her,</span>
   <span id="f000118">reared in her,</span>
   <span id="f000119">had lived in her for ages,</span>
   <span id="f000120">had never known any other ship.</span>
   <span id="f000121">I would just as soon have abused the old village church at home for not being a cathedral.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">And for me there was also my youth to make me patient.</span>
   <span id="f000123">There was all the East before me,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and all life,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and the thought that I had been tried in that ship and had come out pretty well.</span>
   <span id="f000126">And I thought of men of old who,</span>
   <span id="f000127">centuries ago,</span>
   <span id="f000128">went that road in ships that sailed no better,</span>
   <span id="f000129">to the land of palms,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and spices,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and yellow sands,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and of brown nations ruled by kings more cruel than Nero the Roman and more splendid than Solomon the Jew.</span>
   <span id="f000133">The old bark lumbered on,</span>
   <span id="f000134">heavy with her age and the burden of her cargo,</span>
   <span id="f000135">while I lived the life of youth in ignorance and hope.</span>
   <span id="f000136">She lumbered on through an interminable procession of days;</span>
   <span id="f000137">and the fresh gilding flashed back at the setting sun,</span>
   <span id="f000138">seemed to cry out over the darkening sea the words painted on her stern,</span>
   <span id="f000139">’<em>Judea</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000140">London.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Do or Die.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">Then we entered the Indian Ocean and steered northerly for Java Head.</span>
   <span id="f000143">The winds were light.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Weeks slipped by.</span>
   <span id="f000145">She crawled on,</span>
   <span id="f000146">do or die,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and people at home began to think of posting us as overdue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">One Saturday evening,</span>
   <span id="f000149">I being off duty,</span>
   <span id="f000150">the men asked me to give them an extra bucket of water or so – for washing clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000151">As I did not wish to screw on the fresh-water pump so late,</span>
   <span id="f000152">I went forward whistling,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and with a key in my hand to unlock the forepeak scuttle,</span>
   <span id="f000154">intending to serve the water out of a spare tank we kept there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">The smell down below was as unexpected as it was frightful.</span>
   <span id="f000156">One would have thought hundreds of paraffin-lamps had been flaring and smoking in that hole for days.</span>
   <span id="f000157">I was glad to get out.</span>
   <span id="f000158">The man with me coughed and said,</span>
   <span id="f000159">’Funny smell,</span>
   <span id="f000160">sir.’ I answered negligently,</span>
   <span id="f000161">’It’s good for the health,</span>
   <span id="f000162">they say,’ and walked aft.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">The first thing I did was to put my head down the square of the midship ventilator.</span>
   <span id="f000164">As I lifted the lid a visible breath,</span>
   <span id="f000165">something like a thin fog,</span>
   <span id="f000166">a puff of faint haze,</span>
   <span id="f000167">rose from the opening.</span>
   <span id="f000168">The ascending air was hot,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and had a heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000170">sooty,</span>
   <span id="f000171">paraffiny smell.</span>
   <span id="f000172">I gave one sniff,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and put down the lid gently.</span>
   <span id="f000174">It was no use choking myself.</span>
   <span id="f000175">The cargo was on fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">Next day she began to smoke in earnest.</span>
   <span id="f000177">You see it was to be expected,</span>
   <span id="f000178">for though the coal was of a safe kind,</span>
   <span id="f000179">that cargo had been so handled,</span>
   <span id="f000180">so broken up with handling,</span>
   <span id="f000181">that it looked more like smithy coal than anything else.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Then it had been wetted – more than once.</span>
   <span id="f000183">It rained all the time we were taking it back from the hulk,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and now with this long passage it got heated,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and there was another case of spontaneous combustion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">The captain called us into the cabin.</span>
   <span id="f000187">He had a chart spread on the table,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and looked unhappy.</span>
   <span id="f000189">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000190">’The coast of West Australia is near,</span>
   <span id="f000191">but I mean to proceed to our destination.</span>
   <span id="f000192">It is the hurricane month too;</span>
   <span id="f000193">but we will just keep her head for Bankok,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and fight the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000195">No more putting back anywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000196">if we all get roasted.</span>
   <span id="f000197">We will try first to stifle this ’ere damned combustion by want of air.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">We tried.</span>
   <span id="f000199">We battened down everything,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and still she smoked.</span>
   <span id="f000201">The smoke kept coming out through imperceptible crevices;</span>
   <span id="f000202">it forced itself through bulkheads and covers;</span>
   <span id="f000203">it oozed here and there and everywhere in slender threads,</span>
   <span id="f000204">in an invisible film,</span>
   <span id="f000205">in an incomprehensible manner.</span>
   <span id="f000206">It made its way into the cabin,</span>
   <span id="f000207">into the forecastle;</span>
   <span id="f000208">it poisoned the sheltered places on the deck,</span>
   <span id="f000209">it could be sniffed as high as the main-yard.</span>
   <span id="f000210">It was clear that if the smoke came out the air came in.</span>
   <span id="f000211">This was disheartening.</span>
   <span id="f000212">This combustion refused to be stifled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">We resolved to try water,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and took the hatches off.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Enormous volumes of smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000216">whitish,</span>
   <span id="f000217">yellowish,</span>
   <span id="f000218">thick,</span>
   <span id="f000219">greasy,</span>
   <span id="f000220">misty,</span>
   <span id="f000221">choking,</span>
   <span id="f000222">ascended as high as the trucks.</span>
   <span id="f000223">All hands cleared out aft.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Then the poisonous cloud blew away,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and we went back to work in a smoke that was no thicker now than that of an ordinary factory chimney.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">We rigged the force pump,</span>
   <span id="f000227">got the hose along,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and by-and-by it burst.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000230">it was as old as the ship – a prehistoric hose,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and past repair.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Then we pumped with the feeble head-pump,</span>
   <span id="f000233">drew water with buckets,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and in this way managed in time to pour lots of Indian Ocean into the main hatch.</span>
   <span id="f000235">The bright stream flashed in sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000236">fell into a layer of white crawling smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and vanished on the black surface of coal.</span>
   <span id="f000238">Steam ascended mingling with the smoke.</span>
   <span id="f000239">We poured salt water as into a barrel without a bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000240">It was our fate to pump in that ship,</span>
   <span id="f000241">to pump out of her,</span>
   <span id="f000242">to pump into her;</span>
   <span id="f000243">and after keeping water out of her to save ourselves from being drowned,</span>
   <span id="f000244">we frantically poured water into her to save ourselves from being burnt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">And she crawled on,</span>
   <span id="f000246">do or die,</span>
   <span id="f000247">in the serene weather.</span>
   <span id="f000248">The sky was a miracle of purity,</span>
   <span id="f000249">a miracle of azure.</span>
   <span id="f000250">The sea was polished,</span>
   <span id="f000251">was blue,</span>
   <span id="f000252">was pellucid,</span>
   <span id="f000253">was sparkling like a precious stone,</span>
   <span id="f000254">extending on all sides,</span>
   <span id="f000255">all round to the horizon – as if the whole terrestrial globe had been one jewel,</span>
   <span id="f000256">one colossal sapphire,</span>
   <span id="f000257">a single gem fashioned into a planet.</span>
   <span id="f000258">And on the luster of the great calm waters the <em>Judea</em> glided imperceptibly,</span>
   <span id="f000259">enveloped in languid and unclean vapours,</span>
   <span id="f000260">in a lazy cloud that drifted to leeward,</span>
   <span id="f000261">light and slow:</span>
   <span id="f000262">a pestiferous cloud defiling the splendour of sea and sky.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">All this time of course we saw no fire.</span>
   <span id="f000264">The cargo smoldered at the bottom somewhere.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Once Mahon,</span>
   <span id="f000266">as we were working side by side,</span>
   <span id="f000267">said to me with a queer smile:</span>
   <span id="f000268">’Now,</span>
   <span id="f000269">if she only would spring a tidy leak – like that time when we first left the Channel – it would put a stopper on this fire.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Wouldn’t it?’ I remarked irrelevantly,</span>
   <span id="f000271">’Do you remember the rats?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">We fought the fire and sailed the ship too as carefully as though nothing had been the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000273">The steward cooked and attended on us.</span>
   <span id="f000274">Of the other twelve men,</span>
   <span id="f000275">eight worked while four rested.</span>
   <span id="f000276">Everyone took his turn,</span>
   <span id="f000277">captain included.</span>
   <span id="f000278">There was equality,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and if not exactly fraternity,</span>
   <span id="f000280">then a deal of good feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000281">Sometimes a man,</span>
   <span id="f000282">as he dashed a bucketful of water down the hatchway,</span>
   <span id="f000283">would yell out,</span>
   <span id="f000284">’Hurrah for Bankok!’ and the rest laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000285">But generally we were taciturn and serious – and thirsty.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000287">how thirsty!</span>
   <span id="f000288">And we had to be careful with the water.</span>
   <span id="f000289">Strict allowance.</span>
   <span id="f000290">The ship smoked,</span>
   <span id="f000291">the sun blazed…</span>
   <span id="f000292">Pass the bottle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">We tried everything.</span>
   <span id="f000294">We even made an attempt to dig down to the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000295">No good,</span>
   <span id="f000296">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000297">No man could remain more than a minute below.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Mahon,</span>
   <span id="f000299">who went first,</span>
   <span id="f000300">fainted there,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and the man who went to fetch him out did likewise.</span>
   <span id="f000302">We lugged them out on deck.</span>
   <span id="f000303">Then I leaped down to show how easily it could be done.</span>
   <span id="f000304">They had learned wisdom by that time,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and contented themselves by fishing for me with a chain-hook tied to a broom-handle,</span>
   <span id="f000306">I believe.</span>
   <span id="f000307">I did not offer to go and fetch up my shovel,</span>
   <span id="f000308">which was left down below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">Things began to look bad.</span>
   <span id="f000310">We put the long-boat into the water.</span>
   <span id="f000311">The second boat was ready to swing out.</span>
   <span id="f000312">We had also another,</span>
   <span id="f000313">a fourteen-foot thing,</span>
   <span id="f000314">on davits aft,</span>
   <span id="f000315">where it was quite safe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">Then behold,</span>
   <span id="f000317">the smoke suddenly decreased.</span>
   <span id="f000318">We re-doubled our efforts to flood the bottom of the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000319">In two days there was no smoke at all.</span>
   <span id="f000320">Everybody was on the broad grin.</span>
   <span id="f000321">This was on a Friday.</span>
   <span id="f000322">On Saturday no work,</span>
   <span id="f000323">but sailing the ship of course was done.</span>
   <span id="f000324">The men washed their clothes and their faces for the first time in a fortnight,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and had a special dinner given them.</span>
   <span id="f000326">They spoke of spontaneous combustion with contempt,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and implied <em>they</em> were the boys to put out combustions.</span>
   <span id="f000328">Somehow we all felt as though we each had inherited a large fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000329">But a beastly smell of burning hung about the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Captain Beard had hollow eyes and sunken cheeks.</span>
   <span id="f000331">I had never noticed so much before how twisted and bowed he was.</span>
   <span id="f000332">He and Mahon prowled soberly about hatches and ventilators,</span>
   <span id="f000333">sniffing.</span>
   <span id="f000334">It struck me suddenly poor Mahon was a very,</span>
   <span id="f000335">very old chap.</span>
   <span id="f000336">As to me,</span>
   <span id="f000337">I was as pleased and proud as though I had helped to win a great naval battle.</span>
   <span id="f000338">O!</span>
   <span id="f000339">Youth!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">The night was fine.</span>
   <span id="f000341">In the morning a homeward-bound ship passed us hull down,</span>
   <span id="f000342">– the first we had seen for months;</span>
   <span id="f000343">but we were nearing the land at last,</span>
   <span id="f000344">Java Head being about 190 miles off,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and nearly due north.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">Next day it was my watch on deck from eight to twelve.</span>
   <span id="f000347">At breakfast the captain observed,</span>
   <span id="f000348">’It’s wonderful how that smell hangs about the cabin.’ About ten,</span>
   <span id="f000349">the mate being on the poop,</span>
   <span id="f000350">I stepped down on the main-deck for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000351">The carpenter’s bench stood abaft the mainmast:</span>
   <span id="f000352">I leaned against it sucking at my pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and the carpenter,</span>
   <span id="f000354">a young chap,</span>
   <span id="f000355">came to talk to me.</span>
   <span id="f000356">He remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000357">’I think we have done very well,</span>
   <span id="f000358">haven’t we?’ and then I perceived with annoyance the fool was trying to tilt the bench.</span>
   <span id="f000359">I said curtly,</span>
   <span id="f000360">’Don’t,</span>
   <span id="f000361">Chips,’ and immediately became aware of a queer sensation,</span>
   <span id="f000362">of an absurd delusion,</span>
   <span id="f000363">– I seemed somehow to be in the air.</span>
   <span id="f000364">I heard all round me like a pent-up breath released – as if a thousand giants simultaneously had said Phoo!</span>
   <span id="f000365">– and felt a dull concussion which made my ribs ache suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f000366">No doubt about it – I was in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and my body was describing a short parabola.</span>
   <span id="f000368">But short as it was,</span>
   <span id="f000369">I had the time to think several thoughts in,</span>
   <span id="f000370">as far as I can remember,</span>
   <span id="f000371">the following order:</span>
   <span id="f000372">’This can’t be the carpenter – What is it?</span>
   <span id="f000373">– Some accident – Submarine volcano?</span>
   <span id="f000374">– Coals,</span>
   <span id="f000375">gas!</span>
   <span id="f000376">– By Jove!</span>
   <span id="f000377">we are being blown up – Everybody’s dead – I am falling into the after-hatch – I see fire in it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">The coal-dust suspended in the air of the hold had glowed dull-red at the moment of the explosion.</span>
   <span id="f000379">In the twinkling of an eye,</span>
   <span id="f000380">in an infinitesimal fraction of a second since the first tilt of the bench,</span>
   <span id="f000381">I was sprawling full length on the cargo.</span>
   <span id="f000382">I picked myself up and scrambled out.</span>
   <span id="f000383">It was quick like a rebound.</span>
   <span id="f000384">The deck was a wilderness of smashed timber,</span>
   <span id="f000385">lying crosswise like trees in a wood after a hurricane;</span>
   <span id="f000386">an immense curtain of soiled rags waved gently before me – it was the mainsail blown to strips.</span>
   <span id="f000387">I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000388">The masts will be toppling over directly;</span>
   <span id="f000389">and to get out of the way bolted on all-fours towards the poop-ladder.</span>
   <span id="f000390">The first person I saw was Mahon,</span>
   <span id="f000391">with eyes like saucers,</span>
   <span id="f000392">his mouth open,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and the long white hair standing straight on end round his head like a silver halo.</span>
   <span id="f000394">He was just about to go down when the sight of the main-deck stirring,</span>
   <span id="f000395">heaving up,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and changing into splinters before his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000397">petrified him on the top step.</span>
   <span id="f000398">I stared at him in unbelief,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and he stared at me with a queer kind of shocked curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000400">I did not know that I had no hair,</span>
   <span id="f000401">no eyebrows,</span>
   <span id="f000402">no eyelashes,</span>
   <span id="f000403">that my young moustache was burnt off,</span>
   <span id="f000404">that my face was black,</span>
   <span id="f000405">one cheek laid open,</span>
   <span id="f000406">my nose cut,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and my chin bleeding.</span>
   <span id="f000408">I had lost my cap,</span>
   <span id="f000409">one of my slippers,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and my shirt was torn to rags.</span>
   <span id="f000411">Of all this I was not aware.</span>
   <span id="f000412">I was amazed to see the ship still afloat,</span>
   <span id="f000413">the poop-deck whole – and,</span>
   <span id="f000414">most of all,</span>
   <span id="f000415">to see anybody alive.</span>
   <span id="f000416">Also the peace of the sky and the serenity of the sea were distinctly surprising.</span>
   <span id="f000417">I suppose I expected to see them convulsed with horror…</span>
   <span id="f000418">Pass the bottle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">There was a voice hailing the ship from somewhere – in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000420">in the sky – I couldn’t tell.</span>
   <span id="f000421">Presently I saw the captain – and he was mad.</span>
   <span id="f000422">He asked me eagerly,</span>
   <span id="f000423">’Where’s the cabin-table?’ and to hear such a question was a frightful shock.</span>
   <span id="f000424">I had just been blown up,</span>
   <span id="f000425">you understand,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and vibrated with that experience,</span>
   <span id="f000427">– I wasn’t quite sure whether I was alive.</span>
   <span id="f000428">Mahon began to stamp with both feet and yelled at him,</span>
   <span id="f000429">’Good God!</span>
   <span id="f000430">don’t you see the deck’s blown out of her?’ I found my voice,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and stammered out as if conscious of some gross neglect of duty,</span>
   <span id="f000432">’I don’t know where the cabin-table is.’ It was like an absurd dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">Do you know what he wanted next?</span>
   <span id="f000434">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000435">he wanted to trim the yards.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Very placidly,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and as if lost in thought,</span>
   <span id="f000438">he insisted on having the foreyard squared.</span>
   <span id="f000439">’I don’t know if there’s anybody alive,’ said Mahon,</span>
   <span id="f000440">almost tearfully.</span>
   <span id="f000441">’Surely,’ he said gently,</span>
   <span id="f000442">’there will be enough left to square the foreyard.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">The old chap,</span>
   <span id="f000444">it seems,</span>
   <span id="f000445">was in his own berth,</span>
   <span id="f000446">winding up the chronometers,</span>
   <span id="f000447">when the shock sent him spinning.</span>
   <span id="f000448">Immediately it occurred to him – as he said afterwards – that the ship had struck something,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and he ran out into the cabin.</span>
   <span id="f000450">There,</span>
   <span id="f000451">he saw,</span>
   <span id="f000452">the cabin-table had vanished somewhere.</span>
   <span id="f000453">The deck being blown up,</span>
   <span id="f000454">it had fallen down into the lazarette of course.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Where we had our breakfast that morning he saw only a great hole in the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000456">This appeared to him so awfully mysterious,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and impressed him so immensely,</span>
   <span id="f000458">that what he saw and heard after he got on deck were mere trifles in comparison.</span>
   <span id="f000459">And,</span>
   <span id="f000460">mark,</span>
   <span id="f000461">he noticed directly the wheel deserted and his barque off her course – and his only thought was to get that miserable,</span>
   <span id="f000462">stripped,</span>
   <span id="f000463">undecked,</span>
   <span id="f000464">smouldering shell of a ship back again with her head pointing at her port of destination.</span>
   <span id="f000465">Bankok!</span>
   <span id="f000466">That’s what he was after.</span>
   <span id="f000467">I tell you this quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000468">bowed,</span>
   <span id="f000469">bandy-legged,</span>
   <span id="f000470">almost deformed little man was immense in the singleness of his idea and in his placid ignorance of our agitation.</span>
   <span id="f000471">He motioned us forward with a commanding gesture,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and went to take the wheel himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000474">that was the first thing we did – trim the yards of that wreck!</span>
   <span id="f000475">No one was killed,</span>
   <span id="f000476">or even disabled,</span>
   <span id="f000477">but everyone was more or less hurt.</span>
   <span id="f000478">You should have seen them!</span>
   <span id="f000479">Some were in rags,</span>
   <span id="f000480">with black faces,</span>
   <span id="f000481">like coal-heavers,</span>
   <span id="f000482">like sweeps,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and had bullet heads that seemed closely cropped,</span>
   <span id="f000484">but were in fact singed to the skin.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Others,</span>
   <span id="f000486">of the watch below,</span>
   <span id="f000487">awakened by being shot out from their collapsing bunks,</span>
   <span id="f000488">shivered incessantly,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and kept on groaning even as we went about our work.</span>
   <span id="f000490">But they all worked.</span>
   <span id="f000491">That crew of Liverpool hard cases had in them the right stuff.</span>
   <span id="f000492">It’s my experience they always have.</span>
   <span id="f000493">It is the sea that gives it – the vastness,</span>
   <span id="f000494">the loneliness surrounding their dark stolid souls.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000496">Well!</span>
   <span id="f000497">we stumbled,</span>
   <span id="f000498">we crept,</span>
   <span id="f000499">we fell,</span>
   <span id="f000500">we barked our shins on the wreckage,</span>
   <span id="f000501">we hauled.</span>
   <span id="f000502">The masts stood,</span>
   <span id="f000503">but we did not know how much they might be charred down below.</span>
   <span id="f000504">It was nearly calm,</span>
   <span id="f000505">but a long swell ran from the west and made her roll.</span>
   <span id="f000506">They might go at any moment.</span>
   <span id="f000507">We looked at them with apprehension.</span>
   <span id="f000508">One could not foresee which way they would fall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">Then we retreated aft and looked about us.</span>
   <span id="f000510">The deck was a tangle of planks on edge,</span>
   <span id="f000511">of planks on end,</span>
   <span id="f000512">of splinters,</span>
   <span id="f000513">of ruined woodwork.</span>
   <span id="f000514">The masts rose from that chaos like big trees above a matted undergrowth.</span>
   <span id="f000515">The interstices of that mass of wreckage were full of something whitish,</span>
   <span id="f000516">sluggish,</span>
   <span id="f000517">stirring – of something that was like a greasy fog.</span>
   <span id="f000518">The smoke of the invisible fire was coming up again,</span>
   <span id="f000519">was trailing,</span>
   <span id="f000520">like a poisonous thick mist in some valley choked with dead wood.</span>
   <span id="f000521">Already lazy wisps were beginning to curl upwards amongst the mass of splinters.</span>
   <span id="f000522">Here and there a piece of timber,</span>
   <span id="f000523">stuck upright,</span>
   <span id="f000524">resembled a post.</span>
   <span id="f000525">Half of a fife-rail had been shot through the foresail,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and the sky made a patch of glorious blue in the ignobly soiled canvas.</span>
   <span id="f000527">A portion of several boards holding together had fallen across the rail,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and one end protruded overboard,</span>
   <span id="f000529">like a gangway leading upon nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000530">like a gangway leading over the deep sea,</span>
   <span id="f000531">leading to death – as if inviting us to walk the plank at once and be done with our ridiculous troubles.</span>
   <span id="f000532">And still the air,</span>
   <span id="f000533">the sky – a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000534">something invisible was hailing the ship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">Someone had the sense to look over,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and there was the helmsman,</span>
   <span id="f000537">who had impulsively jumped overboard,</span>
   <span id="f000538">anxious to come back.</span>
   <span id="f000539">He yelled and swam lustily like a merman,</span>
   <span id="f000540">keeping up with the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000541">We threw him a rope,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and presently he stood amongst us streaming with water and very crestfallen.</span>
   <span id="f000543">The captain had surrendered the wheel,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and apart,</span>
   <span id="f000545">elbow on rail and chin in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000546">gazed at the sea wistfully.</span>
   <span id="f000547">We asked ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000548">What next?</span>
   <span id="f000549">I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000550">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000551">this is something like.</span>
   <span id="f000552">This is great.</span>
   <span id="f000553">I wonder what will happen.</span>
   <span id="f000554">O youth!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">Suddenly Mahon sighted a steamer far astern.</span>
   <span id="f000556">Captain Beard said,</span>
   <span id="f000557">’We may do something with her yet.’ We hoisted two flags,</span>
   <span id="f000558">which said in the international language of the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000559">’On fire.</span>
   <span id="f000560">Want immediate assistance.’ The steamer grew bigger rapidly,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and by-and-by spoke with two flags on her foremast,</span>
   <span id="f000562">’I am coming to your assistance.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">In half an hour she was abreast,</span>
   <span id="f000564">to windward,</span>
   <span id="f000565">within hail,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and rolling slightly,</span>
   <span id="f000567">with her engines stopped.</span>
   <span id="f000568">We lost our composure,</span>
   <span id="f000569">and yelled all together with excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000570">’We’ve been blown up.’ A man in a white helmet,</span>
   <span id="f000571">on the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000572">cried,</span>
   <span id="f000573">’Yes!</span>
   <span id="f000574">All right!</span>
   <span id="f000575">all right!’ and he nodded his head,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and made soothing motions with his hand as though at a lot of frightened children.</span>
   <span id="f000578">One of the boats dropped in the water,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and walked towards us upon the sea with her long oars.</span>
   <span id="f000580">Four Calashes pulled a swinging stroke.</span>
   <span id="f000581">This was my first sight of Malay seamen.</span>
   <span id="f000582">I’ve known them since,</span>
   <span id="f000583">but what struck me then was their unconcern:</span>
   <span id="f000584">they came alongside,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and even the bowman standing up and holding to our main-chains with the boat-hook did not deign to lift his head for a glance.</span>
   <span id="f000586">I thought people who had been blown up deserved more attention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">A little man,</span>
   <span id="f000588">dry like a chip and agile like a monkey,</span>
   <span id="f000589">clambered up.</span>
   <span id="f000590">It was the mate of the steamer.</span>
   <span id="f000591">He gave one look,</span>
   <span id="f000592">and cried,</span>
   <span id="f000593">’O boys – you had better quit.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">We were silent.</span>
   <span id="f000595">He talked apart with the captain for a time,</span>
   <span id="f000596">– seemed to argue with him.</span>
   <span id="f000597">Then they went away together to the steamer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">When our skipper came back we learned that the steamer was the <em>Sommerville</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000599">Captain Nash,</span>
   <span id="f000600">from West Australia to Singapore via Batavia with mails,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and that the agreement was she should tow us to Anjer or Batavia,</span>
   <span id="f000602">if possible,</span>
   <span id="f000603">where we could extinguish the fire by scuttling,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and then proceed on our voyage – to Bankok!</span>
   <span id="f000605">The old man seemed excited.</span>
   <span id="f000606">’We will do it yet,’ he said to Mahon,</span>
   <span id="f000607">fiercely.</span>
   <span id="f000608">He shook his fist at the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000609">Nobody else said a word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">At noon the steamer began to tow.</span>
   <span id="f000611">She went ahead slim and high,</span>
   <span id="f000612">and what was left of the <em>Judea</em> followed at the end of seventy fathom of tow-rope,</span>
   <span id="f000613">– followed her swiftly like a cloud of smoke with mastheads protruding above.</span>
   <span id="f000614">We went aloft to furl the sails.</span>
   <span id="f000615">We coughed on the yards,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and were careful about the bunts.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Do you see the lot of us there,</span>
   <span id="f000618">putting a neat furl on the sails of that ship doomed to arrive nowhere?</span>
   <span id="f000619">There was not a man who didn’t think that at any moment the masts would topple over.</span>
   <span id="f000620">From aloft we could not see the ship for smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and they worked carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000622">passing the gaskets with even turns.</span>
   <span id="f000623">’Harbour furl – aloft there!’ cried Mahon from below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000624">You understand this?</span>
   <span id="f000625">I don’t think one of those chaps expected to get down in the usual way.</span>
   <span id="f000626">When we did I heard them saying to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000627">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000628">I thought we would come down overboard,</span>
   <span id="f000629">in a lump – sticks and all – blame me if I didn’t.’ ’That’s what I was thinking to myself,’ would answer wearily another battered and bandaged scarecrow.</span>
   <span id="f000630">And,</span>
   <span id="f000631">mind,</span>
   <span id="f000632">these were men without the drilled-in habit of obedience.</span>
   <span id="f000633">To an onlooker they would be a lot of profane scallywags without a redeeming point.</span>
   <span id="f000634">What made them do it – what made them obey me when I,</span>
   <span id="f000635">thinking consciously how fine it was,</span>
   <span id="f000636">made them drop the bunt of the foresail twice to try and do it better?</span>
   <span id="f000637">What?</span>
   <span id="f000638">They had no professional reputation – no examples,</span>
   <span id="f000639">no praise.</span>
   <span id="f000640">It wasn’t a sense of duty;</span>
   <span id="f000641">they all knew well enough how to shirk,</span>
   <span id="f000642">and laze,</span>
   <span id="f000643">and dodge – when they had a mind to it – and mostly they had.</span>
   <span id="f000644">Was it the two pounds ten a month that sent them there?</span>
   <span id="f000645">They didn’t think their pay half good enough.</span>
   <span id="f000646">No;</span>
   <span id="f000647">it was something in them,</span>
   <span id="f000648">something inborn and subtle and everlasting.</span>
   <span id="f000649">I don’t say positively that the crew of a French or German merchantman wouldn’t have done it,</span>
   <span id="f000650">but I doubt whether it would have been done in the same way.</span>
   <span id="f000651">There was a completeness in it,</span>
   <span id="f000652">something solid like a principle,</span>
   <span id="f000653">and masterful like an instinct – a disclosure of something secret – of that hidden something,</span>
   <span id="f000654">that gift,</span>
   <span id="f000655">of good or evil that makes racial difference,</span>
   <span id="f000656">that shapes the fate of nations.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

