<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">It was that night at ten that,</span>
   <span id="f000003">for the first time since we had been fighting it,</span>
   <span id="f000004">we saw the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000005">The speed of the towing had fanned the smoldering destruction.</span>
   <span id="f000006">A blue gleam appeared forward,</span>
   <span id="f000007">shining below the wreck of the deck.</span>
   <span id="f000008">It wavered in patches,</span>
   <span id="f000009">it seemed to stir and creep like the light of a glowworm.</span>
   <span id="f000010">I saw it first,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and told Mahon.</span>
   <span id="f000012">’Then the game’s up,’ he said.</span>
   <span id="f000013">’We had better stop this towing,</span>
   <span id="f000014">or she will burst out suddenly fore and aft before we can clear out.’ We set up a yell;</span>
   <span id="f000015">rang bells to attract their attention;</span>
   <span id="f000016">they towed on.</span>
   <span id="f000017">At last Mahon and I had to crawl forward and cut the rope with an ax.</span>
   <span id="f000018">There was no time to cast off the lashings.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Red tongues could be seen licking the wilderness of splinters under our feet as we made our way back to the poop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">Of course they very soon found out in the steamer that the rope was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000021">She gave a loud blast of her whistle,</span>
   <span id="f000022">her lights were seen sweeping in a wide circle,</span>
   <span id="f000023">she came up ranging close alongside,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and stopped.</span>
   <span id="f000025">We were all in a tight group on the poop looking at her.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Every man had saved a little bundle or a bag.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Suddenly a conical flame with a twisted top shot up forward and threw upon the black sea a circle of light,</span>
   <span id="f000028">with the two vessels side by side and heaving gently in its center.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Captain Beard had been sitting on the gratings still and mute for hours,</span>
   <span id="f000030">but now he rose slowly and advanced in front of us,</span>
   <span id="f000031">to the mizzen-shrouds.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Captain Nash hailed:</span>
   <span id="f000033">’Come along!</span>
   <span id="f000034">Look sharp.</span>
   <span id="f000035">I have mail-bags on board.</span>
   <span id="f000036">I will take you and your boats to Singapore.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">’Thank you!</span>
   <span id="f000038">No!’ said our skipper.</span>
   <span id="f000039">’We must see the last of the ship.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">’I can’t stand by any longer,’ shouted the other.</span>
   <span id="f000041">’Mails – you know.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">’Ay!</span>
   <span id="f000043">ay!</span>
   <span id="f000044">We are all right.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">’Very well!</span>
   <span id="f000046">I’ll report you in Singapore…</span>
   <span id="f000047">Good-bye!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“He waved his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Our men dropped their bundles quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000050">The steamer moved ahead,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and passing out of the circle of light,</span>
   <span id="f000052">vanished at once from our sight,</span>
   <span id="f000053">dazzled by the fire which burned fiercely.</span>
   <span id="f000054">And then I knew that I would see the East first as commander of a small boat.</span>
   <span id="f000055">I thought it fine;</span>
   <span id="f000056">and the fidelity to the old ship was fine.</span>
   <span id="f000057">We should see the last of her.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Oh the glamour of youth!</span>
   <span id="f000059">Oh the fire of it,</span>
   <span id="f000060">more dazzling than the flames of the burning ship,</span>
   <span id="f000061">throwing a magic light on the wide earth,</span>
   <span id="f000062">leaping audaciously to the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000063">presently to be quenched by time,</span>
   <span id="f000064">more cruel,</span>
   <span id="f000065">more pitiless,</span>
   <span id="f000066">more bitter than the sea – and like the flames of the burning ship surrounded by an impenetrable night.”</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000067">The old man warned us in his gentle and inflexible way that it was part of our duty to save for the under-writers as much as we could of the ship’s gear.</span>
   <span id="f000068">According we went to work aft,</span>
   <span id="f000069">while she blazed forward to give us plenty of light.</span>
   <span id="f000070">We lugged out a lot of rubbish.</span>
   <span id="f000071">What didn’t we save?</span>
   <span id="f000072">An old barometer fixed with an absurd quantity of screws nearly cost me my life:</span>
   <span id="f000073">a sudden rush of smoke came upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and I just got away in time.</span>
   <span id="f000075">There were various stores,</span>
   <span id="f000076">bolts of canvas,</span>
   <span id="f000077">coils of rope;</span>
   <span id="f000078">the poop looked like a marine bazaar,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and the boats were lumbered to the gunwales.</span>
   <span id="f000080">One would have thought the old man wanted to take as much as he could of his first command with him.</span>
   <span id="f000081">He was very very quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but off his balance evidently.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Would you believe it?</span>
   <span id="f000084">He wanted to take a length of old stream-cable and a kedge-anchor with him in the long-boat.</span>
   <span id="f000085">We said,</span>
   <span id="f000086">’Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000087">ay,</span>
   <span id="f000088">sir,’ deferentially,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and on the quiet let the thing slip overboard.</span>
   <span id="f000090">The heavy medicine-chest went that way,</span>
   <span id="f000091">two bags of green coffee,</span>
   <span id="f000092">tins of paint – fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000093">paint!</span>
   <span id="f000094">– a whole lot of things.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Then I was ordered with two hands into the boats to make a stowage and get them ready against the time it would be proper for us to leave the ship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">We put everything straight,</span>
   <span id="f000097">stepped the long-boat’s mast for our skipper,</span>
   <span id="f000098">who was in charge of her,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and I was not sorry to sit down for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000100">My face felt raw,</span>
   <span id="f000101">every limb ached as if broken,</span>
   <span id="f000102">I was aware of all my ribs,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and would have sworn to a twist in the back-bone.</span>
   <span id="f000104">The boats,</span>
   <span id="f000105">fast astern,</span>
   <span id="f000106">lay in a deep shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and all around I could see the circle of the sea lighted by the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000108">A gigantic flame arose forward straight and clear.</span>
   <span id="f000109">It flared there,</span>
   <span id="f000110">with noises like the whir of wings,</span>
   <span id="f000111">with rumbles as of thunder.</span>
   <span id="f000112">There were cracks,</span>
   <span id="f000113">detonations,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and from the cone of flame the sparks flew upwards,</span>
   <span id="f000115">as man is born to trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000116">to leaky ships,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and to ships that burn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">What bothered me was that the ship,</span>
   <span id="f000119">lying broadside to the swell and to such wind as there was – a mere breath – the boats would not keep astern where they were safe,</span>
   <span id="f000120">but persisted,</span>
   <span id="f000121">in a pig-headed way boats have,</span>
   <span id="f000122">in getting under the counter and then swinging alongside.</span>
   <span id="f000123">They were knocking about dangerously and coming near the flame,</span>
   <span id="f000124">while the ship rolled on them,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and,</span>
   <span id="f000126">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000127">there was always the danger of the masts going over the side at any moment.</span>
   <span id="f000128">I and my two boat-keepers kept them off as best we could with oars and boat-hooks;</span>
   <span id="f000129">but to be constantly at it became exasperating,</span>
   <span id="f000130">since there was no reason why we should not leave at once.</span>
   <span id="f000131">We could not see those on board,</span>
   <span id="f000132">nor could we imagine what caused the delay.</span>
   <span id="f000133">The boat-keepers were swearing feebly,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and I had not only my share of the work,</span>
   <span id="f000135">but also had to keep at it two men who showed a constant inclination to lay themselves down and let things slide.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">At last I hailed ’On deck there,’ and someone looked over.</span>
   <span id="f000137">’We’re ready here,’ I said.</span>
   <span id="f000138">The head disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and very soon popped up again.</span>
   <span id="f000140">’The captain says,</span>
   <span id="f000141">All right,</span>
   <span id="f000142">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and to keep the boats well clear of the ship.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">Half an hour passed.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Suddenly there was a frightful racket,</span>
   <span id="f000146">rattle,</span>
   <span id="f000147">clanking of chain,</span>
   <span id="f000148">hiss of water,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and millions of sparks flew up into the shivering column of smoke that stood leaning slightly above the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000150">The cat-heads had burned away,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and the two red-hot anchors had gone to the bottom,</span>
   <span id="f000152">tearing out after them two hundred fathom of red-hot chain.</span>
   <span id="f000153">The ship trembled,</span>
   <span id="f000154">the mass of flame swayed as if ready to collapse,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and the fore top-gallant-mast fell.</span>
   <span id="f000156">It darted down like an arrow of fire,</span>
   <span id="f000157">shot under,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and instantly leaping up within an oar’s-length of the boats,</span>
   <span id="f000159">floated quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000160">very black on the luminous sea.</span>
   <span id="f000161">I hailed the deck again.</span>
   <span id="f000162">After some time a man in an unexpectedly cheerful but also muffled tone,</span>
   <span id="f000163">as though he had been trying to speak with his mouth shut,</span>
   <span id="f000164">informed me,</span>
   <span id="f000165">’Coming directly,</span>
   <span id="f000166">sir,’ and vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000167">For a long time I heard nothing but the whir and roar of the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000168">There were also whistling sounds.</span>
   <span id="f000169">The boats jumped,</span>
   <span id="f000170">tugged at the painters,</span>
   <span id="f000171">ran at each other playfully,</span>
   <span id="f000172">knocked their sides together,</span>
   <span id="f000173">or,</span>
   <span id="f000174">do what we would,</span>
   <span id="f000175">swung in a bunch against the ship’s side.</span>
   <span id="f000176">I couldn’t stand it any longer,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and swarming up a rope,</span>
   <span id="f000178">clambered aboard over the stern.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">It was as bright as day.</span>
   <span id="f000180">Coming up like this,</span>
   <span id="f000181">the sheet of fire facing me,</span>
   <span id="f000182">was a terrifying sight,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and the heat seemed hardly bearable at first.</span>
   <span id="f000184">On a settee cushion dragged out of the cabin,</span>
   <span id="f000185">Captain Beard,</span>
   <span id="f000186">with his legs drawn up and one arm under his head,</span>
   <span id="f000187">slept with the light playing on him.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Do you know what the rest were busy about?</span>
   <span id="f000189">They were sitting on deck right aft,</span>
   <span id="f000190">round an open case,</span>
   <span id="f000191">eating bread and cheese and drinking bottled stout.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">On the background of flames twisting in fierce tongues above their heads they seemed at home like salamanders,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and looked like a band of desperate pirates.</span>
   <span id="f000194">The fire sparkled in the whites of their eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000195">gleamed on patches of white skin seen through the torn shirts.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Each had the marks as of a battle about him – bandaged heads,</span>
   <span id="f000197">tied-up arms,</span>
   <span id="f000198">a strip of dirty rag round a knee – and each man had a bottle between his legs and a chunk of cheese in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Mahon got up.</span>
   <span id="f000200">With his handsome and disreputable head,</span>
   <span id="f000201">his hooked profile,</span>
   <span id="f000202">his long white beard,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and with an uncorked bottle in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000204">he resembled one of those reckless sea-robbers of old making merry amidst violence and disaster.</span>
   <span id="f000205">’The last meal on board,’ he explained solemnly.</span>
   <span id="f000206">’We had nothing to eat all day,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and it was no use leaving all this.’ He flourished the bottle and indicated the sleeping skipper.</span>
   <span id="f000208">’He said he couldn’t swallow anything,</span>
   <span id="f000209">so I got him to lie down,’ he went on;</span>
   <span id="f000210">and as I stared,</span>
   <span id="f000211">’I don’t know whether you are aware,</span>
   <span id="f000212">young fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000213">the man had no sleep to speak of for days – and there will be dam’ little sleep in the boats.’ ’There will be no boats by-and-by if you fool about much longer,’ I said,</span>
   <span id="f000214">indignantly.</span>
   <span id="f000215">I walked up to the skipper and shook him by the shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000216">At last he opened his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000217">but did not move.</span>
   <span id="f000218">’Time to leave her,</span>
   <span id="f000219">sir,’ I said,</span>
   <span id="f000220">quietly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">He got up painfully,</span>
   <span id="f000222">looked at the flames,</span>
   <span id="f000223">at the sea sparkling round the ship,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and black,</span>
   <span id="f000225">black as ink farther away;</span>
   <span id="f000226">he looked at the stars shining dim through a thin veil of smoke in a sky black,</span>
   <span id="f000227">black as Erebus.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">’Youngest first,’ he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">And the ordinary seaman,</span>
   <span id="f000230">wiping his mouth with the back of his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000231">got up,</span>
   <span id="f000232">clambered over the taffrail,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Others followed.</span>
   <span id="f000235">One,</span>
   <span id="f000236">on the point of going over,</span>
   <span id="f000237">stopped short to drain his bottle,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and with a great swing of his arm flung it at the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000239">’Take this!’ he cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">The skipper lingered disconsolately,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and we left him to commune alone for awhile with his first command.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Then I went up again and brought him away at last.</span>
   <span id="f000243">It was time.</span>
   <span id="f000244">The ironwork on the poop was hot to the touch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">Then the painter of the long-boat was cut,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and the three boats,</span>
   <span id="f000247">tied together,</span>
   <span id="f000248">drifted clear of the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000249">It was just sixteen hours after the explosion when we abandoned her.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Mahon had charge of the second boat,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and I had the smallest – the 14-foot thing.</span>
   <span id="f000252">The long-boat would have taken the lot of us;</span>
   <span id="f000253">but the skipper said we must save as much property as we could – for the under-writers – and so I got my first command.</span>
   <span id="f000254">I had two men with me,</span>
   <span id="f000255">a bag of biscuits,</span>
   <span id="f000256">a few tins of meat,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and a breaker of water.</span>
   <span id="f000258">I was ordered to keep close to the long-boat,</span>
   <span id="f000259">that in case of bad weather we might be taken into her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">And do you know what I thought?</span>
   <span id="f000261">I thought I would part company as soon as I could.</span>
   <span id="f000262">I wanted to have my first command all to myself.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I wasn’t going to sail in a squadron if there were a chance for independent cruising.</span>
   <span id="f000264">I would make land by myself.</span>
   <span id="f000265">I would beat the other boats.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Youth!</span>
   <span id="f000267">All youth!</span>
   <span id="f000268">The silly,</span>
   <span id="f000269">charming,</span>
   <span id="f000270">beautiful youth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">But we did not make a start at once.</span>
   <span id="f000272">We must see the last of the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000273">And so the boats drifted about that night,</span>
   <span id="f000274">heaving and setting on the swell.</span>
   <span id="f000275">The men dozed,</span>
   <span id="f000276">waked,</span>
   <span id="f000277">sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000278">groaned.</span>
   <span id="f000279">I looked at the burning ship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">Between the darkness of earth and heaven she was burning fiercely upon a disc of purple sea shot by the blood-red play of gleams;</span>
   <span id="f000281">upon a disc of water glittering and sinister.</span>
   <span id="f000282">A high,</span>
   <span id="f000283">clear flame,</span>
   <span id="f000284">an immense and lonely flame,</span>
   <span id="f000285">ascended from the ocean,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and from its summit the black smoke poured continuously at the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000287">She burned furiously,</span>
   <span id="f000288">mournful and imposing like a funeral pile kindled in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000289">surrounded by the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000290">watched over by the stars.</span>
   <span id="f000291">A magnificent death had come like a grace,</span>
   <span id="f000292">like a gift,</span>
   <span id="f000293">like a reward to that old ship at the end of her laborious days.</span>
   <span id="f000294">The surrender of her weary ghost to the keeping of stars and sea was stirring like the sight of a glorious triumph.</span>
   <span id="f000295">The masts fell just before daybreak,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and for a moment there was a burst and turmoil of sparks that seemed to fill with flying fire the night patient and watchful,</span>
   <span id="f000297">the vast night lying silent upon the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000298">At daylight she was only a charred shell,</span>
   <span id="f000299">floating still under a cloud of smoke and bearing a glowing mass of coal within.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">Then the oars were got out,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and the boats forming in a line moved round her remains as if in procession – the long-boat leading.</span>
   <span id="f000302">As we pulled across her stern a slim dart of fire shot out viciously at us,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and suddenly she went down,</span>
   <span id="f000304">head first,</span>
   <span id="f000305">in a great hiss of steam.</span>
   <span id="f000306">The unconsumed stern was the last to sink;</span>
   <span id="f000307">but the paint had gone,</span>
   <span id="f000308">had cracked,</span>
   <span id="f000309">had peeled off,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and there were no letters,</span>
   <span id="f000311">there was no word,</span>
   <span id="f000312">no stubborn device that was like her soul,</span>
   <span id="f000313">to flash at the rising sun her creed and her name.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">We made our way north.</span>
   <span id="f000315">A breeze sprang up,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and about noon all the boats came together for the last time.</span>
   <span id="f000317">I had no mast or sail in mine,</span>
   <span id="f000318">but I made a mast out of a spare oar and hoisted a boat-awning for a sail,</span>
   <span id="f000319">with a boat-hook for a yard.</span>
   <span id="f000320">She was certainly over-masted,</span>
   <span id="f000321">but I had the satisfaction of knowing that with the wind aft I could beat the other two.</span>
   <span id="f000322">I had to wait for them.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Then we all had a look at the captain’s chart,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and,</span>
   <span id="f000325">after a sociable meal of hard bread and water,</span>
   <span id="f000326">got our last instructions.</span>
   <span id="f000327">These were simple:</span>
   <span id="f000328">steer north,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and keep together as much as possible.</span>
   <span id="f000330">’Be careful with that jury rig,</span>
   <span id="f000331">Marlow,’ said the captain;</span>
   <span id="f000332">and Mahon,</span>
   <span id="f000333">as I sailed proudly past his boat,</span>
   <span id="f000334">wrinkled his curved nose and hailed,</span>
   <span id="f000335">’You will sail that ship of yours under water,</span>
   <span id="f000336">if you don’t look out,</span>
   <span id="f000337">young fellow.’ He was a malicious old man – and may the deep sea where he sleeps now rock him gently,</span>
   <span id="f000338">rock him tenderly to the end of time!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">Before sunset a thick rain-squall passed over the two boats,</span>
   <span id="f000340">which were far astern,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and that was the last I saw of them for a time.</span>
   <span id="f000342">Next day I sat steering my cockle-shell – my first command – with nothing but water and sky around me.</span>
   <span id="f000343">I did sight in the afternoon the upper sails of a ship far away,</span>
   <span id="f000344">but said nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and my men did not notice her.</span>
   <span id="f000346">You see I was afraid she might be homeward bound,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and I had no mind to turn back from the portals of the East.</span>
   <span id="f000348">I was steering for Java – another blessed name – like Bankok,</span>
   <span id="f000349">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000350">I steered many days.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">I need not tell you what it is to be knocking about in an open boat.</span>
   <span id="f000352">I remember nights and days of calm when we pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000353">we pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and the boat seemed to stand still,</span>
   <span id="f000355">as if bewitched within the circle of the sea horizon.</span>
   <span id="f000356">I remember the heat,</span>
   <span id="f000357">the deluge of rain-squalls that kept us baling for dear life</span>
   <span id="f000358">(but filled our water-cask),</span>
   <span id="f000359">and I remember sixteen hours on end with a mouth dry as a cinder and a steering-oar over the stern to keep my first command head on to a breaking sea.</span>
   <span id="f000360">I did not know how good a man I was till then.</span>
   <span id="f000361">I remember the drawn faces,</span>
   <span id="f000362">the dejected figures of my two men,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and I remember my youth and the feeling that will never come back any more – the feeling that I could last for ever,</span>
   <span id="f000364">outlast the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000365">the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and all men;</span>
   <span id="f000367">the deceitful feeling that lures us on to joys,</span>
   <span id="f000368">to perils,</span>
   <span id="f000369">to love,</span>
   <span id="f000370">to vain effort – to death;</span>
   <span id="f000371">the triumphant conviction of strength,</span>
   <span id="f000372">the heat of life in the handful of dust,</span>
   <span id="f000373">the glow in the heart that with every year grows dim,</span>
   <span id="f000374">grows cold,</span>
   <span id="f000375">grows small,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and expires – and expires,</span>
   <span id="f000377">too soon – before life itself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">And this is how I see the East.</span>
   <span id="f000379">I have seen its secret places and have looked into its very soul;</span>
   <span id="f000380">but now I see it always from a small boat,</span>
   <span id="f000381">a high outline of mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000382">blue and afar in the morning;</span>
   <span id="f000383">like faint mist at noon;</span>
   <span id="f000384">a jagged wall of purple at sunset.</span>
   <span id="f000385">I have the feel of the oar in my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000386">the vision of a scorching blue sea in my eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000387">And I see a bay,</span>
   <span id="f000388">a wide bay,</span>
   <span id="f000389">smooth as glass and polished like ice,</span>
   <span id="f000390">shimmering in the dark.</span>
   <span id="f000391">A red light burns far off upon the gloom of the land,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and the night is soft and warm.</span>
   <span id="f000393">We drag at the oars with aching arms,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and suddenly a puff of wind,</span>
   <span id="f000395">a puff faint and tepid and laden with strange odors of blossoms,</span>
   <span id="f000396">of aromatic wood,</span>
   <span id="f000397">comes out of the still night – the first sigh of the East on my face.</span>
   <span id="f000398">That I can never forget.</span>
   <span id="f000399">It was impalpable and enslaving,</span>
   <span id="f000400">like a charm,</span>
   <span id="f000401">like a whispered promise of mysterious delight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">We had been pulling this finishing spell for eleven hours.</span>
   <span id="f000403">Two pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and he whose turn it was to rest sat at the tiller.</span>
   <span id="f000405">We had made out the red light in that bay and steered for it,</span>
   <span id="f000406">guessing it must mark some small coasting port.</span>
   <span id="f000407">We passed two vessels,</span>
   <span id="f000408">outlandish and high-sterned,</span>
   <span id="f000409">sleeping at anchor,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and,</span>
   <span id="f000411">approaching the light,</span>
   <span id="f000412">now very dim,</span>
   <span id="f000413">ran the boat’s nose against the end of a jutting wharf.</span>
   <span id="f000414">We were blind with fatigue.</span>
   <span id="f000415">My men dropped the oars and fell off the thwarts as if dead.</span>
   <span id="f000416">I made fast to a pile.</span>
   <span id="f000417">A current rippled softly.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The scented obscurity of the shore was grouped into vast masses,</span>
   <span id="f000419">a density of colossal clumps of vegetation,</span>
   <span id="f000420">probably – mute and fantastic shapes.</span>
   <span id="f000421">And at their foot the semicircle of a beach gleamed faintly,</span>
   <span id="f000422">like an illusion.</span>
   <span id="f000423">There was not a light,</span>
   <span id="f000424">not a stir,</span>
   <span id="f000425">not a sound.</span>
   <span id="f000426">The mysterious East faced me,</span>
   <span id="f000427">perfumed like a flower,</span>
   <span id="f000428">silent like death,</span>
   <span id="f000429">dark like a grave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">And I sat weary beyond expression,</span>
   <span id="f000431">exulting like a conqueror,</span>
   <span id="f000432">sleepless and entranced as if before a profound,</span>
   <span id="f000433">a fateful enigma.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">A splashing of oars,</span>
   <span id="f000435">a measured dip reverberating on the level of water,</span>
   <span id="f000436">intensified by the silence of the shore into loud claps,</span>
   <span id="f000437">made me jump up.</span>
   <span id="f000438">A boat,</span>
   <span id="f000439">a European boat,</span>
   <span id="f000440">was coming in.</span>
   <span id="f000441">I invoked the name of the dead;</span>
   <span id="f000442">I hailed:</span>
   <span id="f000443"><em>Judea</em> ahoy!</span>
   <span id="f000444">A thin shout answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">It was the captain.</span>
   <span id="f000446">I had beaten the flagship by three hours,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and I was glad to hear the old man’s voice,</span>
   <span id="f000448">tremulous and tired.</span>
   <span id="f000449">’Is it you,</span>
   <span id="f000450">Marlow?’ ’Mind the end of that jetty,</span>
   <span id="f000451">sir,’ I cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">He approached cautiously,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and brought up with the deep-sea lead-line which we had saved – for the under-writers.</span>
   <span id="f000454">I eased my painter and fell alongside.</span>
   <span id="f000455">He sat,</span>
   <span id="f000456">a broken figure at the stern,</span>
   <span id="f000457">wet with dew,</span>
   <span id="f000458">his hands clasped in his lap.</span>
   <span id="f000459">His men were asleep already.</span>
   <span id="f000460">’I had a terrible time of it,’ he murmured.</span>
   <span id="f000461">’Mahon is behind – not very far.’ We conversed in whispers,</span>
   <span id="f000462">in low whispers,</span>
   <span id="f000463">as if afraid to wake up the land.</span>
   <span id="f000464">Guns,</span>
   <span id="f000465">thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000466">earthquakes would not have awakened the men just then.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">Looking around as we talked,</span>
   <span id="f000468">I saw away at sea a bright light travelling in the night.</span>
   <span id="f000469">’There’s a steamer passing the bay,’ I said.</span>
   <span id="f000470">She was not passing,</span>
   <span id="f000471">she was entering,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and she even came close and anchored.</span>
   <span id="f000473">’I wish,’ said the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000474">’you would find out whether she is English.</span>
   <span id="f000475">Perhaps they could give us a passage somewhere.’ He seemed nervously anxious.</span>
   <span id="f000476">So by dint of punching and kicking I started one of my men into a state of somnambulism,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and giving him an oar,</span>
   <span id="f000478">took another and pulled towards the lights of the steamer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">There was a murmur of voices in her,</span>
   <span id="f000480">metallic hollow clangs of the engine-room,</span>
   <span id="f000481">footsteps on the deck.</span>
   <span id="f000482">Her ports shone,</span>
   <span id="f000483">round like dilated eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000484">Shapes moved about,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and there was a shadowy man high up on the bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000486">He heard my oars.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000488">before I could open my lips,</span>
   <span id="f000489">the East spoke to me,</span>
   <span id="f000490">but it was in a Western voice.</span>
   <span id="f000491">A torrent of words was poured into the enigmatical,</span>
   <span id="f000492">the fateful silence;</span>
   <span id="f000493">outlandish,</span>
   <span id="f000494">angry words,</span>
   <span id="f000495">mixed with words and even whole sentences of good English,</span>
   <span id="f000496">less strange but even more surprising.</span>
   <span id="f000497">The voice swore and cursed violently;</span>
   <span id="f000498">it riddled the solemn peace of the bay by a volley of abuse.</span>
   <span id="f000499">It began by calling me Pig,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and from that went crescendo into unmentionable adjectives – in English.</span>
   <span id="f000501">The man up there raged aloud in two languages,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and with a sincerity in his fury that almost convinced me I had,</span>
   <span id="f000503">in some way,</span>
   <span id="f000504">sinned against the harmony of the universe.</span>
   <span id="f000505">I could hardly see him,</span>
   <span id="f000506">but began to think he would work himself into a fit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">Suddenly he ceased,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and I could hear him snorting and blowing like a porpoise.</span>
   <span id="f000509">I said –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000510">’What steamer is this,</span>
   <span id="f000511">pray?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">’Eh?</span>
   <span id="f000513">What’s this?</span>
   <span id="f000514">And who are you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">’Castaway crew of an English barque burnt at sea.</span>
   <span id="f000516">We came here to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000517">I am the second mate.</span>
   <span id="f000518">The captain is in the long-boat,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and wishes to know if you would give us a passage somewhere.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000521">my goodness!</span>
   <span id="f000522">I say…</span>
   <span id="f000523">This is the Celestial from Singapore on her return trip.</span>
   <span id="f000524">I’ll arrange with your captain in the morning…</span>
   <span id="f000525">and,…</span>
   <span id="f000526">I say…</span>
   <span id="f000527">did you hear me just now?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">’I should think the whole bay heard you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">’I thought you were a shore-boat.</span>
   <span id="f000530">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000531">look here – this infernal lazy scoundrel of a caretaker has gone to sleep again – curse him.</span>
   <span id="f000532">The light is out,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and I nearly ran foul of the end of this damned jetty.</span>
   <span id="f000534">This is the third time he plays me this trick.</span>
   <span id="f000535">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000536">I ask you,</span>
   <span id="f000537">can anybody stand this kind of thing?</span>
   <span id="f000538">It’s enough to drive a man out of his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000539">I’ll report him…</span>
   <span id="f000540">I’ll get the Assistant Resident to give him the sack,</span>
   <span id="f000541">by…</span>
   <span id="f000542">See – there’s no light.</span>
   <span id="f000543">It’s out,</span>
   <span id="f000544">isn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000545">I take you to witness the light’s out.</span>
   <span id="f000546">There should be a light,</span>
   <span id="f000547">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000548">A red light on the – ’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">’There was a light,’ I said,</span>
   <span id="f000550">mildly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">’But it’s out,</span>
   <span id="f000552">man!</span>
   <span id="f000553">What’s the use of talking like this?</span>
   <span id="f000554">You can see for yourself it’s out – don’t you?</span>
   <span id="f000555">If you had to take a valuable steamer along this God-forsaken coast you would want a light too.</span>
   <span id="f000556">I’ll kick him from end to end of his miserable wharf.</span>
   <span id="f000557">You’ll see if I don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000558">I will – ’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">’So I may tell my captain you’ll take us?’ I broke in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000561">I’ll take you.</span>
   <span id="f000562">Good night,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000563">brusquely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000564">I pulled back,</span>
   <span id="f000565">made fast again to the jetty,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and then went to sleep at last.</span>
   <span id="f000567">I had faced the silence of the East.</span>
   <span id="f000568">I had heard some of its languages.</span>
   <span id="f000569">But when I opened my eyes again the silence was as complete as though it had never been broken.</span>
   <span id="f000570">I was lying in a flood of light,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and the sky had never looked so far,</span>
   <span id="f000572">so high,</span>
   <span id="f000573">before.</span>
   <span id="f000574">I opened my eyes and lay without moving.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">And then I saw the men of the East – they were looking at me.</span>
   <span id="f000576">The whole length of the jetty was full of people.</span>
   <span id="f000577">I saw brown,</span>
   <span id="f000578">bronze,</span>
   <span id="f000579">yellow faces,</span>
   <span id="f000580">the black eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000581">the glitter,</span>
   <span id="f000582">the colour of an Eastern crowd.</span>
   <span id="f000583">And all these beings stared without a murmur,</span>
   <span id="f000584">without a sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000585">without a movement.</span>
   <span id="f000586">They stared down at the boats,</span>
   <span id="f000587">at the sleeping men who at night had come to them from the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000588">Nothing moved.</span>
   <span id="f000589">The fronds of palms stood still against the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000590">Not a branch stirred along the shore,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and the brown roofs of hidden houses peeped through the green foliage,</span>
   <span id="f000592">through the big leaves that hung shining and still like leaves forged of heavy metal.</span>
   <span id="f000593">This was the East of the ancient navigators,</span>
   <span id="f000594">so old,</span>
   <span id="f000595">so mysterious,</span>
   <span id="f000596">resplendent and somber,</span>
   <span id="f000597">living and unchanged,</span>
   <span id="f000598">full of danger and promise.</span>
   <span id="f000599">And these were the men.</span>
   <span id="f000600">I sat up suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f000601">A wave of movement passed through the crowd from end to end,</span>
   <span id="f000602">passed along the heads,</span>
   <span id="f000603">swayed the bodies,</span>
   <span id="f000604">ran along the jetty like a ripple on the water,</span>
   <span id="f000605">like a breath of wind on a field – and all was still again.</span>
   <span id="f000606">I see it now – the wide sweep of the bay,</span>
   <span id="f000607">the glittering sands,</span>
   <span id="f000608">the wealth of green infinite and varied,</span>
   <span id="f000609">the sea blue like the sea of a dream,</span>
   <span id="f000610">the crowd of attentive faces,</span>
   <span id="f000611">the blaze of vivid colour – the water reflecting it all,</span>
   <span id="f000612">the curve of the shore,</span>
   <span id="f000613">the jetty,</span>
   <span id="f000614">the high-sterned outlandish craft floating still,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and the three boats with tired men from the West sleeping unconscious of the land and the people and of the violence of sunshine.</span>
   <span id="f000616">They slept thrown across the thwarts,</span>
   <span id="f000617">curled on bottom-boards,</span>
   <span id="f000618">in the careless attitudes of death.</span>
   <span id="f000619">The head of the old skipper,</span>
   <span id="f000620">leaning back in the stern of the long-boat,</span>
   <span id="f000621">had fallen on his breast,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and he looked as though he would never wake.</span>
   <span id="f000623">Farther out old Mahon’s face was upturned to the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000624">with the long white beard spread out on his breast,</span>
   <span id="f000625">as though he had been shot where he sat at the tiller;</span>
   <span id="f000626">and a man,</span>
   <span id="f000627">all in a heap in the bows of the boat,</span>
   <span id="f000628">slept with both arms embracing the stem-head and with his cheek laid on the gunwale.</span>
   <span id="f000629">The East looked at them without a sound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">“I have known its fascination since:</span>
   <span id="f000631">I have seen the mysterious shores,</span>
   <span id="f000632">the still water,</span>
   <span id="f000633">the lands of brown nations,</span>
   <span id="f000634">where a stealthy Nemesis lies in wait,</span>
   <span id="f000635">pursues,</span>
   <span id="f000636">overtakes so many of the conquering race,</span>
   <span id="f000637">who are proud of their wisdom,</span>
   <span id="f000638">of their knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f000639">of their strength.</span>
   <span id="f000640">But for me all the East is contained in that vision of my youth.</span>
   <span id="f000641">It is all in that moment when I opened my young eyes on it.</span>
   <span id="f000642">I came upon it from a tussle with the sea – and I was young – and I saw it looking at me.</span>
   <span id="f000643">And this is all that is left of it!</span>
   <span id="f000644">Only a moment;</span>
   <span id="f000645">a moment of strength,</span>
   <span id="f000646">of romance,</span>
   <span id="f000647">of glamour – of youth!…</span>
   <span id="f000648">A flick of sunshine upon a strange shore,</span>
   <span id="f000649">the time to remember,</span>
   <span id="f000650">the time for a sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000651">and – good-bye!</span>
   <span id="f000652">– Night – Good-bye…</span>
   <span id="f000653">!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">He drank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000656">The good old time – the good old time.</span>
   <span id="f000657">Youth and the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000658">Glamour and the sea!</span>
   <span id="f000659">The good,</span>
   <span id="f000660">strong sea,</span>
   <span id="f000661">the salt,</span>
   <span id="f000662">bitter sea,</span>
   <span id="f000663">that could whisper to you and roar at you and knock your breath out of you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">He drank again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">“By all that’s wonderful,</span>
   <span id="f000666">it is the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000667">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000668">the sea itself – or is it youth alone?</span>
   <span id="f000669">Who can tell?</span>
   <span id="f000670">But you here – you all had something out of life:</span>
   <span id="f000671">money,</span>
   <span id="f000672">love – whatever one gets on shore – and,</span>
   <span id="f000673">tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000674">wasn’t that the best time,</span>
   <span id="f000675">that time when we were young at sea;</span>
   <span id="f000676">young and had nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000677">on the sea that gives nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000678">except hard knocks – and sometimes a chance to feel your strength – that only – what you all regret?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">And we all nodded at him:</span>
   <span id="f000680">the man of finance,</span>
   <span id="f000681">the man of accounts,</span>
   <span id="f000682">the man of law,</span>
   <span id="f000683">we all nodded at him over the polished table that like a still sheet of brown water reflected our faces,</span>
   <span id="f000684">lined,</span>
   <span id="f000685">wrinkled;</span>
   <span id="f000686">our faces marked by toil,</span>
   <span id="f000687">by deceptions,</span>
   <span id="f000688">by success,</span>
   <span id="f000689">by love;</span>
   <span id="f000690">our weary eyes looking still,</span>
   <span id="f000691">looking always,</span>
   <span id="f000692">looking anxiously for something out of life,</span>
   <span id="f000693">that while it is expected is already gone – has passed unseen,</span>
   <span id="f000694">in a sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000695">in a flash – together with the youth,</span>
   <span id="f000696">with the strength,</span>
   <span id="f000697">with the romance of illusions.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

