<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Section I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">The statement appears to have been written,</span>
   <span id="f000003">though the fragment is undated,</span>
   <span id="f000004">long after the death of his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000005">whom I take to have been one of the persons referred to.</span>
   <span id="f000006">There is,</span>
   <span id="f000007">however,</span>
   <span id="f000008">nothing in the strange story to establish this point,</span>
   <span id="f000009">which is,</span>
   <span id="f000010">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000011">not of importance.</span>
   <span id="f000012">When I took possession of his effects I found these pages,</span>
   <span id="f000013">in a locked drawer,</span>
   <span id="f000014">among papers relating to the unfortunate lady’s too brief career</span>
   <span id="f000015">(she died in childbirth a year after her marriage),</span>
   <span id="f000016">letters,</span>
   <span id="f000017">memoranda,</span>
   <span id="f000018">accounts,</span>
   <span id="f000019">faded photographs,</span>
   <span id="f000020">cards of invitation.</span>
   <span id="f000021">That is the only connection I can point to,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and you may easily and will probably say that the tale is too extravagant to have had a demonstrable origin.</span>
   <span id="f000023">I cannot,</span>
   <span id="f000024">I admit,</span>
   <span id="f000025">vouch for his having intended it as a report of real occurrence – I can only vouch for his general veracity.</span>
   <span id="f000026">In any case it was written for himself,</span>
   <span id="f000027">not for others.</span>
   <span id="f000028">I offer it to others – having full option – precisely because it is so singular.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Let them,</span>
   <span id="f000030">in respect to the form of the thing,</span>
   <span id="f000031">bear in mind that it was written quite for himself.</span>
   <span id="f000032">I have altered nothing but the names.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">If there’s a story in the matter I recognise the exact moment at which it began.</span>
   <span id="f000034">This was on a soft,</span>
   <span id="f000035">still Sunday noon in November,</span>
   <span id="f000036">just after church,</span>
   <span id="f000037">on the sunny Parade.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Brighton was full of people;</span>
   <span id="f000039">it was the height of the season,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and the day was even more respectable than lovely – which helped to account for the multitude of walkers.</span>
   <span id="f000041">The blue sea itself was decorous;</span>
   <span id="f000042">it seemed to doze,</span>
   <span id="f000043">with a gentle snore</span>
   <span id="f000044">(if that be decorum),</span>
   <span id="f000045">as if nature were preaching a sermon.</span>
   <span id="f000046">After writing letters all the morning I had come out to take a look at it before luncheon.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I was leaning over the rail which separates the King’s Road from the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and I think I was smoking a cigarette,</span>
   <span id="f000049">when I became conscious of an intended joke in the shape of a light walking-stick laid across my shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000050">The idea,</span>
   <span id="f000051">I found,</span>
   <span id="f000052">had been thrown off by Teddy Bostwick,</span>
   <span id="f000053">of the Rifles,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and was intended as a contribution to talk.</span>
   <span id="f000055">Our talk came off as we strolled together – he always took your arm to show you he forgave your obtuseness about his humour – and looked at the people,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and bowed to some of them,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and wondered who others were,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and differed in opinion as to the prettiness of the girls.</span>
   <span id="f000059">About Charlotte Marden we agreed,</span>
   <span id="f000060">however,</span>
   <span id="f000061">as we saw her coming toward us with her mother;</span>
   <span id="f000062">and there surely could have been no one who wouldn’t have agreed with us.</span>
   <span id="f000063">The Brighton air,</span>
   <span id="f000064">of old,</span>
   <span id="f000065">used to make plain girls pretty and pretty girls prettier still – I don’t know whether it works the spell now.</span>
   <span id="f000066">The place,</span>
   <span id="f000067">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000068">was rare for complexions,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and Miss Marden’s was one that made people turn round.</span>
   <span id="f000070">It made us stop,</span>
   <span id="f000071">heaven knows – at least,</span>
   <span id="f000072">it was one of the things,</span>
   <span id="f000073">for we already knew the ladies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">We turned with them,</span>
   <span id="f000075">we joined them,</span>
   <span id="f000076">we went where they were going.</span>
   <span id="f000077">They were only going to the end and back – they had just come out of church.</span>
   <span id="f000078">It was another manifestation of Teddy’s humour that he got immediate possession of Charlotte,</span>
   <span id="f000079">leaving me to walk with her mother.</span>
   <span id="f000080">However,</span>
   <span id="f000081">I was not unhappy;</span>
   <span id="f000082">the girl was before me and I had her to talk about.</span>
   <span id="f000083">We prolonged our walk,</span>
   <span id="f000084">Mrs Marden kept me,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and presently she said she was tired and must sit down.</span>
   <span id="f000086">We found a place on a sheltered bench – we gossiped as the people passed.</span>
   <span id="f000087">It had already struck me,</span>
   <span id="f000088">in this pair,</span>
   <span id="f000089">that the resemblance between the mother and the daughter was wonderful even among such resemblances – the more so that it took so little account of a difference of nature.</span>
   <span id="f000090">One often hears mature mothers spoken of as warnings – signposts,</span>
   <span id="f000091">more or less discouraging,</span>
   <span id="f000092">of the way daughters may go.</span>
   <span id="f000093">But there was nothing deterrent in the idea that Charlotte,</span>
   <span id="f000094">at fifty-five,</span>
   <span id="f000095">should be as beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000096">even though it were conditioned on her being as pale and preoccupied,</span>
   <span id="f000097">as Mrs Marden.</span>
   <span id="f000098">At twenty-two she had a kind of rosy blankness and she was admirably handsome.</span>
   <span id="f000099">Her head had the charming shape of her mother’s,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and her features the same fine order.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Then there were looks and movements and tones</span>
   <span id="f000102">(moments when you could scarcely say whether it were aspect or sound),</span>
   <span id="f000103">which,</span>
   <span id="f000104">between the two personalities,</span>
   <span id="f000105">were a reflection,</span>
   <span id="f000106">a recall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">These ladies had a small fortune and a cheerful little house at Brighton,</span>
   <span id="f000108">full of portraits and tokens and trophies</span>
   <span id="f000109">(stuffed animals on the top of bookcases,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and sallow,</span>
   <span id="f000111">varnished fish under glass),</span>
   <span id="f000112">to which Mrs Marden professed herself attached by pious memories.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Her husband had been ‘ordered’ there in ill-health,</span>
   <span id="f000114">to spend the last years of his life,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and she had already mentioned to me that it was a place in which she felt herself still under the protection of his goodness.</span>
   <span id="f000116">His goodness appeared to have been great,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and she sometimes had the air of defending it against mysterious imputations.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Some sense of protection,</span>
   <span id="f000119">of an influence invoked and cherished,</span>
   <span id="f000120">was evidently necessary to her;</span>
   <span id="f000121">she had a dim wistfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000122">a longing for security.</span>
   <span id="f000123">She wanted friends and she had a good many.</span>
   <span id="f000124">She was kind to me on our first meeting,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and I never suspected her of the vulgar purpose of ‘making up’ to me – a suspicion,</span>
   <span id="f000126">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000127">unduly frequent in conceited young men.</span>
   <span id="f000128">It never struck me that she wanted me for her daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000129">nor yet,</span>
   <span id="f000130">like some unnatural mammas,</span>
   <span id="f000131">for herself.</span>
   <span id="f000132">It was as if they had had a common deep,</span>
   <span id="f000133">shy need and had been ready to say:</span>
   <span id="f000134">‘Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000135">be friendly to us and be trustful!</span>
   <span id="f000136">Don’t be afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000137">you won’t be expected to marry us.’ “Of course there’s something about mamma;</span>
   <span id="f000138">that’s really what makes her such a dear!” Charlotte said to me,</span>
   <span id="f000139">confidentially,</span>
   <span id="f000140">at an early stage of our acquaintance.</span>
   <span id="f000141">She worshipped her mother’s appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000142">It was the only thing she was vain of ;</span>
   <span id="f000143">she accepted the raised eyebrows as a charming ultimate fact.</span>
   <span id="f000144">“She looks as if she were waiting for the doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000145">dear mamma,” she said on another occasion.</span>
   <span id="f000146">“Perhaps you’re the doctor;</span>
   <span id="f000147">do you think you are?” It appeared in the event that I had some healing power.</span>
   <span id="f000148">At any rate when I learned,</span>
   <span id="f000149">for she once dropped the remark,</span>
   <span id="f000150">that Mrs Marden also thought there was something ‘awfully strange’ about Charlotte,</span>
   <span id="f000151">the relation between the two ladies became extremely interesting.</span>
   <span id="f000152">It was happy enough,</span>
   <span id="f000153">at bottom;</span>
   <span id="f000154">each had the other so much on her mind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">On the Parade the stream of strollers held its course,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and Charlotte presently went by with Teddy Bostwick.</span>
   <span id="f000157">She smiled and nodded and continued,</span>
   <span id="f000158">but when she came back she stopped and spoke to us.</span>
   <span id="f000159">Captain Bostwick positively declined to go in,</span>
   <span id="f000160">he said the occasion was too jolly:</span>
   <span id="f000161">might they therefore take another turn?</span>
   <span id="f000162">Her mother dropped a “Do as you like”,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and the girl gave me an impertinent smile over her shoulder as they quitted us.</span>
   <span id="f000164">Teddy looked at me with his glass in one eye;</span>
   <span id="f000165">but I didn’t mind that;</span>
   <span id="f000166">it was only of Miss Marden I was thinking as I observed to my companion,</span>
   <span id="f000167">laughing:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“She’s a bit of a coquette,</span>
   <span id="f000169">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">“Don’t say that – don’t say that!” Mrs Marden murmured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“The nicest girls always are – just a little,” I was magnanimous enough to plead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“Then why are they always punished?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">The intensity of the question startled me – it had come out in such a vivid flash.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Therefore I had to think a moment before I inquired:</span>
   <span id="f000175">“What do you know about it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“I was a bad girl myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“And were you punished?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“I carry it through life,” said Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000179">looking away from me.</span>
   <span id="f000180">“Ah!” she suddenly panted,</span>
   <span id="f000181">in the next breath,</span>
   <span id="f000182">rising to her feet and staring at her daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000183">who had reappeared again with Captain Bostwick.</span>
   <span id="f000184">She stood a few seconds,</span>
   <span id="f000185">with the queerest expression in her face;</span>
   <span id="f000186">then she sank upon the seat again and I saw that she had blushed crimson.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Charlotte,</span>
   <span id="f000188">who had observed her movement,</span>
   <span id="f000189">came straight up to her and,</span>
   <span id="f000190">taking her hand with quick tenderness,</span>
   <span id="f000191">seated herself on the other side of her.</span>
   <span id="f000192">The girl had turned pale – she gave her mother a fixed,</span>
   <span id="f000193">frightened look.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000195">who had had some shock which escaped our detection,</span>
   <span id="f000196">recovered herself ;</span>
   <span id="f000197">that is she sat quiet and inexpressive,</span>
   <span id="f000198">gazing at the indifferent crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000199">the sunny air,</span>
   <span id="f000200">the slumbering sea.</span>
   <span id="f000201">My eye happened to fall,</span>
   <span id="f000202">however,</span>
   <span id="f000203">on the interlocked hands of the two ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and I quickly guessed that the grasp of the elder one was violent.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Bostwick stood before them,</span>
   <span id="f000206">wondering what was the matter and asking me from his little vacant disk if I knew;</span>
   <span id="f000207">which led Charlotte to say to him after a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000208">with a certain irritation:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“Don’t stand there that way,</span>
   <span id="f000210">Captain Bostwick;</span>
   <span id="f000211">go away – please go away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">I got up at this,</span>
   <span id="f000213">hoping that Mrs Marden wasn’t ill;</span>
   <span id="f000214">but she immediately begged that we would not go away,</span>
   <span id="f000215">that we would particularly stay and that we would presently come home to lunch.</span>
   <span id="f000216">She drew me down beside her and for a moment I felt her hand pressing my arm in a way that might have been an involuntary betrayal of distress and might have been a private signal.</span>
   <span id="f000217">What she might have wished to point out to me I couldn’t divine:</span>
   <span id="f000218">perhaps she had seen somebody or something abnormal in the crowd.</span>
   <span id="f000219">She explained to us in a few minutes that she was all right;</span>
   <span id="f000220">that she was only liable to palpitations – they came as quickly as they went.</span>
   <span id="f000221">It was time to move,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and we moved.</span>
   <span id="f000223">The incident was felt to be closed.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Bostwick and I lunched with our sociable friends,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and when I walked away with him he declared that he had never seen such dear kind creatures.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">Mrs Marden had made us promise to come back the next day to tea,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and had exhorted us in general to come as often as we could.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Yet the next day,</span>
   <span id="f000229">when at five o’clock I knocked at the door of the pretty house,</span>
   <span id="f000230">it was to learn that the ladies had gone up to town.</span>
   <span id="f000231">They had left a message for us with the butler:</span>
   <span id="f000232">he was to say that they had suddenly been called – were very sorry.</span>
   <span id="f000233">They would be absent a few days.</span>
   <span id="f000234">This was all I could extract from the dumb domestic.</span>
   <span id="f000235">I went again three days later,</span>
   <span id="f000236">but they were still away;</span>
   <span id="f000237">and it was not till the end of a week that I got a note from Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000238">saying ‘We are back;</span>
   <span id="f000239">do come and forgive us.’ It was on this occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000240">I remember</span>
   <span id="f000241">(the occasion of my going just after getting the note),</span>
   <span id="f000242">that she told me she had intuitions.</span>
   <span id="f000243">I don’t know how many people there were in England at that time in that predicament,</span>
   <span id="f000244">but there were very few who would have mentioned it;</span>
   <span id="f000245">so that the announcement struck me as original,</span>
   <span id="f000246">especially as her point was that some of these uncanny promptings were connected with me.</span>
   <span id="f000247">There were other people present – idle Brighton folk,</span>
   <span id="f000248">old women with frightened eyes and irrelevant interjections – and I had but a few minutes’ talk with Charlotte;</span>
   <span id="f000249">but the day after this I met them both at dinner and had the satisfaction of sitting next to Miss Marden.</span>
   <span id="f000250">I recall that hour as the hour on which it first completely came over me that she was a beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000251">liberal creature.</span>
   <span id="f000252">I had seen her personality in patches and gleams,</span>
   <span id="f000253">like a song sung in snatches,</span>
   <span id="f000254">but now it was before me in a large rosy glow,</span>
   <span id="f000255">as if it had been a full volume of sound – I heard the whole of the air.</span>
   <span id="f000256">It was sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000257">fresh music – I was often to hum it over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">After dinner I had a few words with Mrs Marden;</span>
   <span id="f000259">it was at the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000260">late in the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000261">when tea was handed about.</span>
   <span id="f000262">A servant passed near us with a tray,</span>
   <span id="f000263">I asked her if she would have a cup,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and,</span>
   <span id="f000265">on her assenting,</span>
   <span id="f000266">took one and handed it to her.</span>
   <span id="f000267">She put out her hand for it and I gave it to her,</span>
   <span id="f000268">safely as I supposed;</span>
   <span id="f000269">but as she was in the act of receiving it she started and faltered,</span>
   <span id="f000270">so that the cup and saucer dropped with a crash of porcelain and without,</span>
   <span id="f000271">on the part of my interlocutress,</span>
   <span id="f000272">the usual woman’s movement to save her dress.</span>
   <span id="f000273">I stooped to pick up the fragments and when I raised myself Mrs Marden was looking across the room at her daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000274">who looked back at her smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000275">but with an anxious light in her eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000276">‘Dear mamma,</span>
   <span id="f000277">what on earth is the matter with you?’ the silent question seemed to say.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Mrs Marden coloured,</span>
   <span id="f000279">just as she had done after her strange movement on the Parade the other week,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and I was therefore surprised when she said to me with unexpected assurance:</span>
   <span id="f000281">“You should really have a steadier hand!” I had begun to stammer a defence of my hand when I became aware that she had fixed her eyes upon me with an intense appeal.</span>
   <span id="f000282">It was ambiguous at first and only added to my confusion;</span>
   <span id="f000283">then suddenly I understood,</span>
   <span id="f000284">as plainly as if she had murmured ‘Make believe it was you – make believe it was you.’ The servant came back to take the morsels of the cup and wipe up the spilt tea,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and while I was in the midst of making believe Mrs Marden abruptly brushed away from me and from her daughter’s attention and went into another room.</span>
   <span id="f000286">I noticed that she gave no heed to the state of her dress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">I saw nothing more of either of them that evening,</span>
   <span id="f000288">but the next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000289">in the King’s Road,</span>
   <span id="f000290">I met Miss Marden with a roll of music in her muff.</span>
   <span id="f000291">She told me she had been a little way alone,</span>
   <span id="f000292">to practise duets with a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and I asked her if she would go a little way further in company.</span>
   <span id="f000294">She gave me leave to attend her to her door,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and as we stood before it I inquired if I might go in.</span>
   <span id="f000296">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000297">not to-day – I don’t want you,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000298">candidly,</span>
   <span id="f000299">though not roughly;</span>
   <span id="f000300">while the words caused me to direct a wistful,</span>
   <span id="f000301">disconcerted gaze at one of the windows of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000302">It fell upon the white face of Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000303">who was looking out at us from the drawing-room.</span>
   <span id="f000304">She stood there long enough for me to see that it was she and not an apparition,</span>
   <span id="f000305">as I had thought for a second,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and then she vanished before her daughter had observed her.</span>
   <span id="f000307">The girl,</span>
   <span id="f000308">during our walk,</span>
   <span id="f000309">had said nothing about her.</span>
   <span id="f000310">As I had been told they didn’t want me I left them alone a little,</span>
   <span id="f000311">after which circumstances supervened that kept us still longer apart.</span>
   <span id="f000312">I finally went up to London,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and while there I received a pressing invitation to come immediately down to Tranton,</span>
   <span id="f000314">a pretty old place in Sussex belonging to a couple whose acquaintance I had lately made.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">I went to Tranton from town,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and on arriving found the Mardens,</span>
   <span id="f000317">with a dozen other people,</span>
   <span id="f000318">in the house.</span>
   <span id="f000319">The first thing Mrs Marden said was:</span>
   <span id="f000320">“Will you forgive me?” and when I asked what I had to forgive she answered:</span>
   <span id="f000321">“My throwing my tea over you.” I replied that it had gone over herself ;</span>
   <span id="f000322">whereupon she said:</span>
   <span id="f000323">“At any rate I was very rude;</span>
   <span id="f000324">but some day I think you’ll understand,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and then you’ll make allowances for me.” The first day I was there she dropped two or three of these references</span>
   <span id="f000326">(she had already indulged in more than one),</span>
   <span id="f000327">to the mystic initiation that was in store for me;</span>
   <span id="f000328">so that I began,</span>
   <span id="f000329">as the phrase is,</span>
   <span id="f000330">to chaff her about it,</span>
   <span id="f000331">to say I would rather it were less wonderful and take it out at once.</span>
   <span id="f000332">She answered that when it should come to me I would have to take it out – there would be little enough option.</span>
   <span id="f000333">That it would come was privately clear to her,</span>
   <span id="f000334">a deep presentiment,</span>
   <span id="f000335">which was the only reason she had ever mentioned the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Didn’t I remember she had told me she had intuitions?</span>
   <span id="f000337">From the first time of her seeing me she had been sure there were things I should not escape knowing.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Meanwhile there was nothing to do but wait and keep cool,</span>
   <span id="f000339">not to be precipitate.</span>
   <span id="f000340">She particularly wished not to be any more nervous than she was.</span>
   <span id="f000341">And I was above all not to be nervous myself – one got used to everything.</span>
   <span id="f000342">I declared that though I couldn’t make out what she was talking about I was terribly frightened;</span>
   <span id="f000343">the absence of a clue gave such a range to one’s imagination.</span>
   <span id="f000344">I exaggerated on purpose;</span>
   <span id="f000345">for if Mrs Marden was mystifying I can scarcely say she was alarming.</span>
   <span id="f000346">I couldn’t imagine what she meant,</span>
   <span id="f000347">but I wondered more than I shuddered.</span>
   <span id="f000348">I might have said to myself that she was a little wrong in the upper storey;</span>
   <span id="f000349">but that never occurred to me.</span>
   <span id="f000350">She struck me as hopelessly right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">There were other girls in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000352">but Charlotte Marden was the most charming;</span>
   <span id="f000353">which was so generally felt to be the case that she really interfered with the slaughter of ground game.</span>
   <span id="f000354">There were two or three men,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and I was of the number,</span>
   <span id="f000356">who actually preferred her to the society of the beaters.</span>
   <span id="f000357">In short she was recognised as a form of sport superior and exquisite.</span>
   <span id="f000358">She was kind to all of us – she made us go out late and come in early.</span>
   <span id="f000359">I don’t know whether she flirted,</span>
   <span id="f000360">but several other members of the party thought they did.</span>
   <span id="f000361">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000362">as regards himself,</span>
   <span id="f000363">Teddy Bostwick,</span>
   <span id="f000364">who had come over from Brighton,</span>
   <span id="f000365">was visibly sure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">The third day I was at Tranton was a Sunday,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and there was a very pretty walk to morning service over the fields.</span>
   <span id="f000368">It was grey,</span>
   <span id="f000369">windless weather,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and the bell of the little old church that nestled in the hollow of the Sussex down sounded near and domestic.</span>
   <span id="f000371">We were a straggling procession,</span>
   <span id="f000372">in the mild damp air</span>
   <span id="f000373">(which,</span>
   <span id="f000374">as always at that season,</span>
   <span id="f000375">gave one the feeling that after the trees were bare there was more of it – a larger sky),</span>
   <span id="f000376">and I managed to fall a good way behind with Miss Marden.</span>
   <span id="f000377">I remember entertaining,</span>
   <span id="f000378">as we moved together over the turf,</span>
   <span id="f000379">a strong impulse to say something intensely personal,</span>
   <span id="f000380">something violent and important – important for me,</span>
   <span id="f000381">such as that I had never seen her so lovely,</span>
   <span id="f000382">or that that particular moment was the sweetest of my life.</span>
   <span id="f000383">But always,</span>
   <span id="f000384">in youth,</span>
   <span id="f000385">such words have been on the lips many times before they are spoken;</span>
   <span id="f000386">and I had the sense,</span>
   <span id="f000387">not that I didn’t know her well enough</span>
   <span id="f000388">(I cared little for that),</span>
   <span id="f000389">but that she didn’t know me well enough.</span>
   <span id="f000390">In the church,</span>
   <span id="f000391">where there were old Tranton tombs and brasses,</span>
   <span id="f000392">the big Tranton pew was full.</span>
   <span id="f000393">Several of us were scattered,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and I found a seat for Miss Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and another for myself beside it,</span>
   <span id="f000396">at a distance from her mother and from most of our friends.</span>
   <span id="f000397">There were two or three decent rustics on the bench,</span>
   <span id="f000398">who moved in further to make room for us,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and I took my place first,</span>
   <span id="f000400">to cut off my companion from our neighbours.</span>
   <span id="f000401">After she was seated there was still a space left,</span>
   <span id="f000402">which remained empty till service was about half over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">This at least was the moment at which I became aware that another person had entered and had taken the seat.</span>
   <span id="f000404">When I noticed him he had apparently been for some minutes in the pew,</span>
   <span id="f000405">for he had settled himself and put down his hat beside him,</span>
   <span id="f000406">and,</span>
   <span id="f000407">with his hands crossed on the nob of his cane,</span>
   <span id="f000408">was gazing before him at the altar.</span>
   <span id="f000409">He was a pale young man in black,</span>
   <span id="f000410">with the air of a gentleman.</span>
   <span id="f000411">I was slightly startled on perceiving him,</span>
   <span id="f000412">for Miss Marden had not attracted my attention to his entrance by moving to make room for him.</span>
   <span id="f000413">After a few minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000414">observing that he had no prayer-book,</span>
   <span id="f000415">I reached across my neighbour and placed mine before him,</span>
   <span id="f000416">on the ledge of the pew;</span>
   <span id="f000417">a manœuvre the motive of which was not unconnected with the possibility that,</span>
   <span id="f000418">in my own destitution,</span>
   <span id="f000419">Miss Marden would give me one side of her velvet volume to hold.</span>
   <span id="f000420">The pretext,</span>
   <span id="f000421">however,</span>
   <span id="f000422">was destined to fail for at the moment I offered him the book the intruder – whose intrusion I had so condoned – rose from his place without thanking me,</span>
   <span id="f000423">stepped noiselessly out of the pew</span>
   <span id="f000424">(it had no door),</span>
   <span id="f000425">and,</span>
   <span id="f000426">so discreetly as to attract no attention,</span>
   <span id="f000427">passed down the centre of the church.</span>
   <span id="f000428">A few minutes had sufficed for his devotions.</span>
   <span id="f000429">His behaviour was unbecoming,</span>
   <span id="f000430">his early departure even more than his late arrival;</span>
   <span id="f000431">but he managed so quietly that we were not incommoded,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and I perceived,</span>
   <span id="f000433">on turning a little to glance after him,</span>
   <span id="f000434">that nobody was disturbed by his withdrawal.</span>
   <span id="f000435">I only noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and with surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000437">that Mrs Marden had been so affected by it as to rise,</span>
   <span id="f000438">involuntarily,</span>
   <span id="f000439">an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000440">in her place.</span>
   <span id="f000441">She stared at him as he passed,</span>
   <span id="f000442">but he passed very quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and she as quickly dropped down again,</span>
   <span id="f000444">though not too soon to catch my eye across the church.</span>
   <span id="f000445">Five minutes later I asked Miss Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000446">in a low voice,</span>
   <span id="f000447">if she would kindly pass me back my prayer-book – I had waited to see if she would spontaneously perform the act.</span>
   <span id="f000448">She restored this aid to devotion,</span>
   <span id="f000449">but had been so far from troubling herself about it that she could say to me as she did so:</span>
   <span id="f000450">“Why on earth did you put it there?” I was on the point of answering her when she dropped on her knees,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and I held my tongue.</span>
   <span id="f000452">I had only been going to say:</span>
   <span id="f000453">‘To be decently civil.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">After the benediction,</span>
   <span id="f000455">as we were leaving our places,</span>
   <span id="f000456">I was slightly surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000457">again,</span>
   <span id="f000458">to see that Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000459">instead of going out with her companions,</span>
   <span id="f000460">had come up the aisle to join us,</span>
   <span id="f000461">having apparently something to say to her daughter.</span>
   <span id="f000462">She said it,</span>
   <span id="f000463">but in an instant I observed that it was only a pretext – her real business was with me.</span>
   <span id="f000464">She pushed Charlotte forward and suddenly murmured to me:</span>
   <span id="f000465">“Did you see him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">“The gentleman who sat down here?</span>
   <span id="f000467">How could I help seeing him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“Hush!” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000469">with the intensest excitement;</span>
   <span id="f000470">“don’t speak to her – don’t tell her!” She slipped her hand into my arm,</span>
   <span id="f000471">to keep me near her,</span>
   <span id="f000472">to keep me,</span>
   <span id="f000473">it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000474">away from her daughter.</span>
   <span id="f000475">The precaution was unnecessary,</span>
   <span id="f000476">for Teddy Bostwick had already taken possession of Miss Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and as they passed out of church in front of me I saw one of the other men close up on her other hand.</span>
   <span id="f000478">It appeared to be considered that I had had my turn.</span>
   <span id="f000479">Mrs Marden withdrew her hand from my arm as soon as we got out,</span>
   <span id="f000480">but not before I felt that she had really needed the support.</span>
   <span id="f000481">“Don’t speak to any one – don’t tell any one!” she went on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">“I don’t understand.</span>
   <span id="f000483">Tell them what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000485">that you saw him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000486">“Surely they saw him for themselves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“Not one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000488">not one of them.” She spoke in a tone of such passionate decision that I glanced at her – she was staring straight before her.</span>
   <span id="f000489">But she felt the challenge of my eyes and she stopped short,</span>
   <span id="f000490">in the old brown timber porch of the church,</span>
   <span id="f000491">with the others well in advance of us,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000493">looking at me now and in a quite extraordinary manner:</span>
   <span id="f000494">“You’re the only person,</span>
   <span id="f000495">the only person in the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“But you,</span>
   <span id="f000497">dear madam?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000498">“Oh me – of course.</span>
   <span id="f000499">That’s my curse!” And with this she moved rapidly away from me to join the body of the party.</span>
   <span id="f000500">I hovered on its outskirts on the way home,</span>
   <span id="f000501">for I had food for rumination.</span>
   <span id="f000502">Whom had I seen and why was the apparition – it rose before my mind’s eye very vividly again – invisible to the others?</span>
   <span id="f000503">If an exception had been made for Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000504">why did it constitute a curse,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and why was I to share so questionable an advantage?</span>
   <span id="f000506">This inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000507">carried on in my own locked breast,</span>
   <span id="f000508">kept me doubtless silent enough during luncheon.</span>
   <span id="f000509">After luncheon I went out on the old terrace to smoke a cigarette,</span>
   <span id="f000510">but I had only taken a couple of turns when I perceived Mrs Marden’s moulded mask at the window of one of the rooms which opened on the crooked flags.</span>
   <span id="f000511">It reminded me of the same flitting presence at the window at Brighton the day I met Charlotte and walked home with her.</span>
   <span id="f000512">But this time my ambiguous friend didn’t vanish;</span>
   <span id="f000513">she tapped on the pane and motioned me to come in.</span>
   <span id="f000514">She was in a queer little apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000515">one of the many reception-rooms of which the ground-floor at Tranton consisted;</span>
   <span id="f000516">it was known as the Indian room and had a decoration vaguely Oriental – bamboo lounges,</span>
   <span id="f000517">lacquered screens,</span>
   <span id="f000518">lanterns with long fringes and strange idols in cabinets,</span>
   <span id="f000519">objects not held to conduce to sociability.</span>
   <span id="f000520">The place was little used,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and when I went round to her we had it to ourselves.</span>
   <span id="f000522">As soon as I entered she said to me:</span>
   <span id="f000523">“Please tell me this;</span>
   <span id="f000524">are you in love with my daughter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000525">I hesitated a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000526">“Before I answer your question will you kindly tell me what gives you the idea?</span>
   <span id="f000527">I don’t consider that I have been very forward.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000529">contradicting me with her beautiful anxious eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000530">gave me no satisfaction on the point I mentioned;</span>
   <span id="f000531">she only went on strenuously:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“Did you say nothing to her on the way to church?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“What makes you think I said anything?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">“The fact that you saw him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“Saw whom,</span>
   <span id="f000536">dear Mrs Marden?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000538">you know,” she answered,</span>
   <span id="f000539">gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000540">even a little reproachfully,</span>
   <span id="f000541">as if I were trying to humiliate her by making her phrase the unphraseable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“Do you mean the gentleman who formed the subject of your strange statement in church – the one who came into the pew?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">“You saw him,</span>
   <span id="f000544">you saw him!” Mrs Marden panted,</span>
   <span id="f000545">with a strange mixture of dismay and relief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“Of course I saw him;</span>
   <span id="f000547">and so did you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“It didn’t follow.</span>
   <span id="f000549">Did you feel it to be inevitable?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">I was puzzled again.</span>
   <span id="f000551">“Inevitable?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">“That you should see him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">“Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000554">since I’m not blind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“You might have been;</span>
   <span id="f000556">every one else is.” I was wonderfully at sea,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and I frankly confessed it to my interlocutress;</span>
   <span id="f000558">but the case was not made clearer by her presently exclaiming:</span>
   <span id="f000559">“I knew you would,</span>
   <span id="f000560">from the moment you should be really in love with her!</span>
   <span id="f000561">I knew it would be the test – what do I mean?</span>
   <span id="f000562">– the proof.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">“Are there such strange bewilderments attached to that high state?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000564">smiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">“You perceive there are.</span>
   <span id="f000566">You see him,</span>
   <span id="f000567">you see him!” Mrs Marden announced,</span>
   <span id="f000568">with tremendous exaltation.</span>
   <span id="f000569">“You’ll see him again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">“I’ve no objection;</span>
   <span id="f000571">but I shall take more interest in him if you’ll kindly tell me who he is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">She hesitated,</span>
   <span id="f000573">looking down a moment;</span>
   <span id="f000574">then she said,</span>
   <span id="f000575">raising her eyes:</span>
   <span id="f000576">“I’ll tell you if you’ll tell me first what you said to her on the way to church.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">“Has she told you I said anything?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000578">“Do I need that?” smiled Mrs Marden.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">“Oh yes,</span>
   <span id="f000580">I remember – your intuitions!</span>
   <span id="f000581">But I’m sorry to see they’re at fault this time;</span>
   <span id="f000582">because I really said nothing to your daughter that was the least out of the way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“Are you very sure?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000584">“On my honour,</span>
   <span id="f000585">Mrs Marden.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“Then you consider that you’re not in love with her?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">“That’s another affair!” I laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">“You are – you are!</span>
   <span id="f000589">You wouldn’t have seen him if you hadn’t been.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“Who the deuce is he,</span>
   <span id="f000591">then,</span>
   <span id="f000592">madam?” I inquired with some irritation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">She would still only answer me with another question.</span>
   <span id="f000594">“Didn’t you at least want to say something to her – didn’t you come very near it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">The question was much to the point;</span>
   <span id="f000596">it justified the famous intuitions.</span>
   <span id="f000597">“Very near it – it was the turn of a hair.</span>
   <span id="f000598">I don’t know what kept me quiet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">“That was quite enough,” said Mrs Marden.</span>
   <span id="f000600">“It isn’t what you say that determines it;</span>
   <span id="f000601">it’s what you feel.</span>
   <span id="f000602">That’s what he goes by.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">I was annoyed,</span>
   <span id="f000604">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000605">by her reiterated reference to an identity yet to be established,</span>
   <span id="f000606">and I clasped my hands with an air of supplication which covered much real impatience,</span>
   <span id="f000607">a sharper curiosity and even the first short throbs of a certain sacred dread.</span>
   <span id="f000608">“I entreat you to tell me whom you’re talking about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">She threw up her arms,</span>
   <span id="f000610">looking away from me,</span>
   <span id="f000611">as if to shake off both reserve and responsibility.</span>
   <span id="f000612">“Sir Edmund Orme.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">“And who is Sir Edmund Orme?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">At the moment I spoke she gave a start.</span>
   <span id="f000615">“Hush,</span>
   <span id="f000616">here they come.” Then as,</span>
   <span id="f000617">following the direction of her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000618">I saw Charlotte Marden on the terrace,</span>
   <span id="f000619">at the window,</span>
   <span id="f000620">she added,</span>
   <span id="f000621">with an intensity of warning:</span>
   <span id="f000622">“Don’t notice him – never!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">Charlotte,</span>
   <span id="f000624">who had had her hands beside her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000625">peering into the room and smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000626">made a sign that she was to be admitted,</span>
   <span id="f000627">on which I went and opened the long window.</span>
   <span id="f000628">Her mother turned away,</span>
   <span id="f000629">and the girl came in with a laughing challenge:</span>
   <span id="f000630">“What plot,</span>
   <span id="f000631">in the world are you two hatching here?” Some plan – I forget what – was in prospect for the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000632">as to which Mrs Marden’s participation or consent was solicited – my adhesion was taken for granted – and she had been half over the place in her quest.</span>
   <span id="f000633">I was flurried,</span>
   <span id="f000634">because I saw that Mrs Marden was flurried</span>
   <span id="f000635">(when she turned round to meet her daughter she covered it by a kind of extravagance,</span>
   <span id="f000636">throwing herself on the girl’s neck and embracing her),</span>
   <span id="f000637">and to pass it off I said,</span>
   <span id="f000638">fancifully,</span>
   <span id="f000639">to Charlotte:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">“I’ve been asking your mother for your hand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000642">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000643">and has she given it?” Miss Marden answered,</span>
   <span id="f000644">gayly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">“She was just going to when you appeared there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000647">it’s only for a moment – I’ll leave you free.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">“Do you like him,</span>
   <span id="f000649">Charlotte?” Mrs Marden asked,</span>
   <span id="f000650">with a candour I scarcely expected.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">“It’s difficult to say it before him isn’t it?” the girl replied,</span>
   <span id="f000652">entering into the humour of the thing,</span>
   <span id="f000653">but looking at me as if she didn’t like me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">She would have had to say it before another person as well,</span>
   <span id="f000655">for at that moment there stepped into the room from the terrace</span>
   <span id="f000656">(the window had been left open),</span>
   <span id="f000657">a gentleman who had come into sight,</span>
   <span id="f000658">at least into mine,</span>
   <span id="f000659">only within the instant.</span>
   <span id="f000660">Mrs Marden had said “Here they come,” but he appeared to have followed her daughter at a certain distance.</span>
   <span id="f000661">I immediately recognised him as the personage who had sat beside us in church.</span>
   <span id="f000662">This time I saw him better,</span>
   <span id="f000663">saw that his face and his whole air were strange.</span>
   <span id="f000664">I speak of him as a personage,</span>
   <span id="f000665">because one felt,</span>
   <span id="f000666">indescribably,</span>
   <span id="f000667">as if a reigning prince had come into the room.</span>
   <span id="f000668">He held himself with a kind of habitual majesty,</span>
   <span id="f000669">as if he were different from us.</span>
   <span id="f000670">Yet he looked fixedly and gravely at me,</span>
   <span id="f000671">till I wondered what he expected of me.</span>
   <span id="f000672">Did he consider that I should bend my knee or kiss his hand?</span>
   <span id="f000673">He turned his eyes in the same way on Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000674">but she knew what to do.</span>
   <span id="f000675">After the first agitation produced by his approach she took no notice of him whatever;</span>
   <span id="f000676">it made me remember her passionate adjuration to me.</span>
   <span id="f000677">I had to achieve a great effort to imitate her,</span>
   <span id="f000678">for though I knew nothing about him but that he was Sir Edmund Orme I felt his presence as a strong appeal,</span>
   <span id="f000679">almost as an oppression.</span>
   <span id="f000680">He stood there without speaking – young,</span>
   <span id="f000681">pale,</span>
   <span id="f000682">handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000683">clean-shaven,</span>
   <span id="f000684">decorous,</span>
   <span id="f000685">with extraordinary light blue eyes and something old-fashioned,</span>
   <span id="f000686">like a portrait of years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000687">in his head,</span>
   <span id="f000688">his manner of wearing his hair.</span>
   <span id="f000689">He was in complete mourning</span>
   <span id="f000690">(one immediately felt that he was very well dressed),</span>
   <span id="f000691">and he carried his hat in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000692">He looked again strangely hard at me,</span>
   <span id="f000693">harder than any one in the world had ever looked before;</span>
   <span id="f000694">and I remember feeling rather cold and wishing he would say something.</span>
   <span id="f000695">No silence had ever seemed to me so soundless.</span>
   <span id="f000696">All this was of course an impression intensely rapid;</span>
   <span id="f000697">but that it had consumed some instants was proved to me suddenly by the aspect of Charlotte Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000698">who stared from her mother to me and back again</span>
   <span id="f000699">(he never looked at her,</span>
   <span id="f000700">and she had no appearance of looking at him),</span>
   <span id="f000701">and then broke out with:</span>
   <span id="f000702">“What on earth is the matter with you?</span>
   <span id="f000703">You’ve such odd faces!” I felt the colour come back to mine,</span>
   <span id="f000704">and when she went on in the same tone:</span>
   <span id="f000705">“One would think you had seen a ghost!” I was conscious that I had turned very red.</span>
   <span id="f000706">Sir Edmund Orme never blushed,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and I could see that he had no capacity for embarrassment.</span>
   <span id="f000708">One had met people of that sort,</span>
   <span id="f000709">but never any one with such a grand indifference.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">“Don’t be impertinent;</span>
   <span id="f000711">and go and tell them all that I’ll join them,” said Mrs Marden with much dignity,</span>
   <span id="f000712">but with a quaver in her voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“And will you come – you?” the girl asked,</span>
   <span id="f000714">turning away.</span>
   <span id="f000715">I made no answer,</span>
   <span id="f000716">taking the question,</span>
   <span id="f000717">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000718">as meant for her companion.</span>
   <span id="f000719">But he was more silent than I,</span>
   <span id="f000720">and when she reached the door</span>
   <span id="f000721">(she was going out that way),</span>
   <span id="f000722">she stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000723">with her hand on the knob,</span>
   <span id="f000724">and looked at me,</span>
   <span id="f000725">repeating it.</span>
   <span id="f000726">I assented,</span>
   <span id="f000727">springing forward to open the door for her,</span>
   <span id="f000728">and as she passed out she exclaimed to me mockingly:</span>
   <span id="f000729">“You haven’t got your wits about you – you sha’n’t have my hand!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">I closed the door and turned round to find that Sir Edmund Orme had during the moment my back was presented to him retired by the window.</span>
   <span id="f000731">Mrs Marden stood there and we looked at each other long.</span>
   <span id="f000732">It had only then – as the girl flitted away – come home to me that her daughter was unconscious of what had happened.</span>
   <span id="f000733">It was that,</span>
   <span id="f000734">oddly enough,</span>
   <span id="f000735">that gave me a sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000736">sharp shake,</span>
   <span id="f000737">and not my own perception of our visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000738">which appeared perfectly natural.</span>
   <span id="f000739">It made the fact vivid to me that she had been equally unaware of him in church,</span>
   <span id="f000740">and the two facts together – now that they were over – set my heart more sensibly beating.</span>
   <span id="f000741">I wiped my forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000742">and Mrs Marden broke out with a low distressful wail:</span>
   <span id="f000743">“Now you know my life – now you know my life!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000744">“In God’s name who is he – what is he?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">“He’s a man I wronged.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000746">“How did you wrong him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000747">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000748">awfully – years ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">“Years ago?</span>
   <span id="f000750">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000751">he’s very young.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“Young – young?” cried Mrs Marden.</span>
   <span id="f000753">“He was born before I was!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“Then why does he look so?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000755">She came nearer to me,</span>
   <span id="f000756">she laid her hand on my arm,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and there was something in her face that made me shrink a little.</span>
   <span id="f000758">“Don’t you understand – don’t you feel?” she murmured,</span>
   <span id="f000759">reproachfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000760">“I feel very queer!” I laughed;</span>
   <span id="f000761">and I was conscious that my laugh betrayed it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">“He’s dead!” said Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000763">from her white face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000764">“Dead?” I panted.</span>
   <span id="f000765">“Then that gentleman was—?” I couldn’t even say the word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000766">“Call him what you like – there are twenty vulgar names.</span>
   <span id="f000767">He’s a perfect presence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">“He’s a splendid presence!” I cried.</span>
   <span id="f000769">“The place is haunted – haunted!” I exulted in the word as if it represented the fulfilment of my dearest dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000770">“It isn’t the place – more’s the pity!</span>
   <span id="f000771">That has nothing to do with it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000772">“Then it’s you,</span>
   <span id="f000773">dear lady?” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000774">as if this were still better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000776">nor me either – I wish it were!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000777">“Perhaps it’s me,” I suggested with a sickly smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">“It’s nobody but my child – my innocent,</span>
   <span id="f000779">innocent child!” And with this Mrs Marden broke down – she dropped into a chair and burst into tears.</span>
   <span id="f000780">I stammered some question – I pressed on her some bewildered appeal,</span>
   <span id="f000781">but she waved me off,</span>
   <span id="f000782">unexpectedly and passionately.</span>
   <span id="f000783">I persisted – couldn’t I help her,</span>
   <span id="f000784">couldn’t I intervene?</span>
   <span id="f000785">“You have intervened,” she sobbed;</span>
   <span id="f000786">“you’re in it,</span>
   <span id="f000787">you’re in it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000788">“I’m very glad to be in anything so curious,” I boldly declared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000789">“Glad or not,</span>
   <span id="f000790">you can’t get out of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000791">“I don’t want to get out of it – it’s too interesting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">“I’m glad you like it.</span>
   <span id="f000793">Go away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">“But I want to know more about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000795">“You’ll see all you want – go away!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“But I want to understand what I see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">“How can you – when I don’t understand myself?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000798">“We’ll do so together – we’ll make it out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">At this she got up,</span>
   <span id="f000800">doing what she could to obliterate her tears.</span>
   <span id="f000801">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000802">it will be better together – that’s why I’ve liked you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000803">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000804">we’ll see it through!” I declared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">“Then you must control yourself better.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">“I will,</span>
   <span id="f000807">I will – with practice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">“You’ll get used to it,” said Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000809">in a tone I never forgot.</span>
   <span id="f000810">“But go and join them – I’ll come in a moment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">I passed out to the terrace and I felt that I had a part to play.</span>
   <span id="f000812">So far from dreading another encounter with the ‘perfect presence’,</span>
   <span id="f000813">as Mrs Marden called it,</span>
   <span id="f000814">I was filled with an excitement that was positively joyous.</span>
   <span id="f000815">I desired a renewal of the sensation – I opened myself wide to the impression;</span>
   <span id="f000816">I went round the house as quickly as if I expected to overtake Sir Edmund Orme.</span>
   <span id="f000817">I didn’t overtake him just then,</span>
   <span id="f000818">but the day was not to close without my recognising that,</span>
   <span id="f000819">as Mrs Marden had said,</span>
   <span id="f000820">I should see all I wanted of him.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

