<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Section II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">We took,</span>
   <span id="f000003">or most of us took,</span>
   <span id="f000004">the collective sociable walk which,</span>
   <span id="f000005">in the English country-house,</span>
   <span id="f000006">is the consecrated pastime on Sunday afternoons.</span>
   <span id="f000007">We were restricted to such a regulated ramble as the ladies were good for;</span>
   <span id="f000008">the afternoons,</span>
   <span id="f000009">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000010">were short,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and by five o’clock we were restored to the fireside in the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000012">with a sense,</span>
   <span id="f000013">on my part at least,</span>
   <span id="f000014">that we might have done a little more for our tea.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Mrs Marden had said she would join us,</span>
   <span id="f000016">but she had not appeared;</span>
   <span id="f000017">her daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000018">who had seen her again before we went out,</span>
   <span id="f000019">only explained that she was tired.</span>
   <span id="f000020">She remained invisible all the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000021">but this was a detail to which I gave as little heed as I had given to the circumstance of my not having Miss Marden to myself during all our walk.</span>
   <span id="f000022">I was too much taken up with another emotion to care;</span>
   <span id="f000023">I felt beneath my feet the threshold of the strange door,</span>
   <span id="f000024">in my life,</span>
   <span id="f000025">which had suddenly been thrown open and out of which unspeakable vibrations played up through me like a fountain.</span>
   <span id="f000026">I had heard all my days of apparitions,</span>
   <span id="f000027">but it was a different thing to have seen one and to know that I should in all probability see it familiarly,</span>
   <span id="f000028">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000029">again.</span>
   <span id="f000030">I was on the look-out for it,</span>
   <span id="f000031">as a pilot for the flash of a revolving light,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and I was ready to generalise on the sinister subject,</span>
   <span id="f000033">to declare that ghosts were much less alarming and much more amusing than was commonly supposed.</span>
   <span id="f000034">There is no doubt that I was extremely nervous.</span>
   <span id="f000035">I couldn’t get over the distinction conferred upon me – the exception</span>
   <span id="f000036">(in the way of mystic enlargement of vision),</span>
   <span id="f000037">made in my favour.</span>
   <span id="f000038">At the same time I think I did justice to Mrs Marden’s absence;</span>
   <span id="f000039">it was a commentary on what she had said to me – “Now you know my life.” She had probably been seeing Sir Edmund Orme for years,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and,</span>
   <span id="f000041">not having my firm fibre,</span>
   <span id="f000042">she had broken down under him.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Her nerve was gone,</span>
   <span id="f000044">though she had also been able to attest that,</span>
   <span id="f000045">in a degree,</span>
   <span id="f000046">one got used to him.</span>
   <span id="f000047">She had got used to breaking down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">Afternoon tea,</span>
   <span id="f000049">when the dusk fell early,</span>
   <span id="f000050">was a friendly hour at Tranton;</span>
   <span id="f000051">the firelight played into the wide,</span>
   <span id="f000052">white last-century hall;</span>
   <span id="f000053">sympathies almost confessed themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000054">lingering together,</span>
   <span id="f000055">before dressing,</span>
   <span id="f000056">on deep sofas,</span>
   <span id="f000057">in muddy boots,</span>
   <span id="f000058">for last words,</span>
   <span id="f000059">after walks;</span>
   <span id="f000060">and even solitary absorption in the third volume of a novel that was wanted by some one else seemed a form of geniality.</span>
   <span id="f000061">I watched my moment and went over to Charlotte Marden when I saw she was about to withdraw.</span>
   <span id="f000062">The ladies had left the place one by one,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and after I had addressed myself particularly to Miss Marden the three men who were near her gradually dispersed.</span>
   <span id="f000064">We had a little vague talk – she appeared preoccupied,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and heaven knows I was – after which she said she must go:</span>
   <span id="f000066">she should be late for dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000067">I proved to her by book that she had plenty of time,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and she objected that she must at any rate go up to see her mother:</span>
   <span id="f000069">she was afraid she was unwell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000071">she’s better than she has been for a long time – I’ll guarantee that,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000072">“She has found out that she can have confidence in me,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and that has done her good.” Miss Marden had dropped into her chair again.</span>
   <span id="f000074">I was standing before her,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and she looked up at me without a smile – with a dim distress in her beautiful eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000076">not exactly as if I were hurting her,</span>
   <span id="f000077">but as if she were no longer disposed to treat as a joke what had passed</span>
   <span id="f000078">(whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f000079">it was at the same time difficult to be serious about it),</span>
   <span id="f000080">between her mother and myself.</span>
   <span id="f000081">But I could answer her inquiry in all kindness and candour,</span>
   <span id="f000082">for I was really conscious that the poor lady had put off a part of her burden on me and was proportionately relieved and eased.</span>
   <span id="f000083">“I’m sure she has slept all the afternoon as she hasn’t slept for years,” I went on.</span>
   <span id="f000084">“You have only to ask her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">Charlotte got up again.</span>
   <span id="f000086">“You make yourself out very useful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">“You’ve a good quarter of an hour,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000088">“Haven’t I a right to talk to you a little this way,</span>
   <span id="f000089">alone,</span>
   <span id="f000090">when your mother has given me your hand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">“And is it your mother who has given me yours?</span>
   <span id="f000092">I’m much obliged to her,</span>
   <span id="f000093">but I don’t want it.</span>
   <span id="f000094">I think our hands are not our mothers’ – they happen to be our own!” laughed the girl.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000096">sit down and let me tell you!” I pleaded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">I still stood before her,</span>
   <span id="f000098">urgently,</span>
   <span id="f000099">to see if she wouldn’t oblige me.</span>
   <span id="f000100">She hesitated a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000101">looking vaguely this way and that,</span>
   <span id="f000102">as if under a compulsion that was slightly painful.</span>
   <span id="f000103">The empty hall was quiet – we heard the loud ticking of the great clock.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Then she slowly sank down and I drew a chair close to her.</span>
   <span id="f000105">This made me face round to the fire again,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and with the movement I perceived,</span>
   <span id="f000107">disconcertedly,</span>
   <span id="f000108">that we were not alone.</span>
   <span id="f000109">The next instant,</span>
   <span id="f000110">more strangely than I can say,</span>
   <span id="f000111">my discomposure,</span>
   <span id="f000112">instead of increasing,</span>
   <span id="f000113">dropped,</span>
   <span id="f000114">for the person before the fire was Sir Edmund Orme.</span>
   <span id="f000115">He stood there as I had seen him in the Indian room,</span>
   <span id="f000116">looking at me with the expressionless attention which borrowed its sternness from his sombre distinction.</span>
   <span id="f000117">I knew so much more about him now that I had to check a movement of recognition,</span>
   <span id="f000118">an acknowledgment of his presence.</span>
   <span id="f000119">When once I was aware of it,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and that it lasted,</span>
   <span id="f000121">the sense that we had company,</span>
   <span id="f000122">Charlotte and I,</span>
   <span id="f000123">quitted me;</span>
   <span id="f000124">it was impressed on me on the contrary that I was more intensely alone with Miss Marden.</span>
   <span id="f000125">She evidently saw nothing to look at,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and I made a tremendous and very nearly successful effort to conceal from her that my own situation was different.</span>
   <span id="f000127">I say ‘very nearly’,</span>
   <span id="f000128">because she watched me an instant – while my words were arrested – in a way that made me fear she was going to say again,</span>
   <span id="f000129">as she had said in the Indian room:</span>
   <span id="f000130">‘What on earth is the matter with you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">What the matter with me was I quickly told her,</span>
   <span id="f000132">for the full knowledge of it rolled over me with the touching spectacle of her unconsciousness.</span>
   <span id="f000133">It was touching that she became,</span>
   <span id="f000134">in the presence of this extraordinary portent.</span>
   <span id="f000135">What was portended,</span>
   <span id="f000136">danger or sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000137">bliss or bane,</span>
   <span id="f000138">was a minor question;</span>
   <span id="f000139">all I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000140">as she sat there,</span>
   <span id="f000141">was that,</span>
   <span id="f000142">innocent and charming,</span>
   <span id="f000143">she was close to a horror,</span>
   <span id="f000144">as she might have thought it,</span>
   <span id="f000145">that happened to be veiled from her but that might at any moment be disclosed.</span>
   <span id="f000146">I didn’t mind it now,</span>
   <span id="f000147">as I found,</span>
   <span id="f000148">but nothing was more possible than she should,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and if it wasn’t curious and interesting it might easily be very dreadful.</span>
   <span id="f000150">If I didn’t mind it for myself,</span>
   <span id="f000151">as I afterwards saw,</span>
   <span id="f000152">this was largely because I was so taken up with the idea of protecting her.</span>
   <span id="f000153">My heart beat high with this idea,</span>
   <span id="f000154">on the spot;</span>
   <span id="f000155">I determined to do everything I could to keep her sense sealed.</span>
   <span id="f000156">What I could do might have been very obscure to me if I had not,</span>
   <span id="f000157">in all this,</span>
   <span id="f000158">become more aware than of anything else that I loved her.</span>
   <span id="f000159">The way to save her was to love her,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and the way to love her was to tell her,</span>
   <span id="f000161">now and here,</span>
   <span id="f000162">that I did so.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Sir Edmund Orme didn’t prevent me,</span>
   <span id="f000164">especially as after a moment he turned his back to us and stood looking discreetly at the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000165">At the end of another moment he leaned his head on his arm,</span>
   <span id="f000166">against the chimneypiece,</span>
   <span id="f000167">with an air of gradual dejection,</span>
   <span id="f000168">like a spirit still more weary than discreet.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Charlotte Marden was startled by what I said to her,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and she jumped up to escape it;</span>
   <span id="f000171">but she took no offence – my tenderness was too real.</span>
   <span id="f000172">She only moved about the room with a deprecating murmur,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and I was so busy following up any little advantage that I might have obtained that I didn’t notice in what manner Sir Edmund Orme disappeared.</span>
   <span id="f000174">I only observed presently that he had gone.</span>
   <span id="f000175">This made no difference – he had been so small a hindrance;</span>
   <span id="f000176">I only remember being struck,</span>
   <span id="f000177">suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000178">with something inexorable in the slow,</span>
   <span id="f000179">sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000180">sad headshake that Miss Marden gave me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“I don’t ask for an answer now,” I said;</span>
   <span id="f000182">“I only want you to be sure – to know how much depends on it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000184">I don’t want to give it to you,</span>
   <span id="f000185">now or ever!” she replied.</span>
   <span id="f000186">“I hate the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000187">please – I wish one could be let alone.” And then,</span>
   <span id="f000188">as if I might have found something harsh in this irrepressible,</span>
   <span id="f000189">artless cry of beauty beset,</span>
   <span id="f000190">she added quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000191">vaguely,</span>
   <span id="f000192">kindly,</span>
   <span id="f000193">as she left the room:</span>
   <span id="f000194">“Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000195">thank you – thank you so much!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">At dinner I could be generous enough to be glad,</span>
   <span id="f000197">for her,</span>
   <span id="f000198">that I was placed on the same side of the table with her,</span>
   <span id="f000199">where she couldn’t see me.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Her mother was nearly opposite to me,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and just after we had sat down Mrs Marden gave me one long,</span>
   <span id="f000202">deep look,</span>
   <span id="f000203">in which all our strange communion was expressed.</span>
   <span id="f000204">It meant of course ‘She has told me,’ but it meant other things beside.</span>
   <span id="f000205">At any rate I know what my answering look to her conveyed:</span>
   <span id="f000206">‘I’ve seen him again – I’ve seen him again!’ This didn’t prevent Mrs Marden from treating her neighbours with her usual scrupulous blandness.</span>
   <span id="f000207">After dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000208">when,</span>
   <span id="f000209">in the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000210">the men joined the ladies and I went straight up to her to tell her how I wished we could have some private conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000211">she said immediately,</span>
   <span id="f000212">in a low tone,</span>
   <span id="f000213">looking down at her fan while she opened and shut it:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“He’s here – he’s here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“Here?” I looked round the room,</span>
   <span id="f000216">but I was disappointed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“Look where she is,” said Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000218">with just the faintest asperity.</span>
   <span id="f000219">Charlotte was in fact not in the main saloon,</span>
   <span id="f000220">but in an apartment into which it opened and which was known as the morning-room.</span>
   <span id="f000221">I took a few steps and saw her,</span>
   <span id="f000222">through a doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000223">upright in the middle of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000224">talking with three gentlemen whose backs were practically turned to me.</span>
   <span id="f000225">For a moment my quest seemed vain;</span>
   <span id="f000226">then I recognised that one of the gentlemen – the middle one – was Sir Edmund Orme.</span>
   <span id="f000227">This time it was surprising that the others didn’t see him.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Charlotte seemed to be looking straight at him,</span>
   <span id="f000229">addressing her conversation to him.</span>
   <span id="f000230">She saw me after an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000231">however,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and immediately turned her eyes away.</span>
   <span id="f000233">I went back to her mother with an annoyed sense that the girl would think I was watching her,</span>
   <span id="f000234">which would be unjust.</span>
   <span id="f000235">Mrs Marden had found a small sofa – a little apart – and I sat down beside her.</span>
   <span id="f000236">There were some questions I had so wanted to go into that I wished we were once more in the Indian room.</span>
   <span id="f000237">I presently gathered,</span>
   <span id="f000238">however,</span>
   <span id="f000239">that our privacy was all-sufficient.</span>
   <span id="f000240">We communicated so closely and completely now,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and with such silent reciprocities,</span>
   <span id="f000242">that it would in every circumstance be adequate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000244">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000245">he’s there,” I said;</span>
   <span id="f000246">“and at about a quarter-past seven he was in the hall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“I knew it at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and I was so glad!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">“So glad?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“That it was your affair,</span>
   <span id="f000251">this time,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and not mine.</span>
   <span id="f000253">It’s a rest for me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“Did you sleep all the afternoon?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“As I haven’t done for months.</span>
   <span id="f000256">But how did you know that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">“As you knew,</span>
   <span id="f000258">I take it,</span>
   <span id="f000259">that Sir Edmund was in the hall.</span>
   <span id="f000260">We shall evidently each of us know things now – where the other is concerned.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“Where he is concerned,” Mrs Marden amended.</span>
   <span id="f000262">“It’s a blessing,</span>
   <span id="f000263">the way you take it,” she added,</span>
   <span id="f000264">with a long,</span>
   <span id="f000265">mild sigh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“I take it as a man who’s in love with your daughter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“Of course – of course.” Intense as I now felt my desire for the girl to be,</span>
   <span id="f000268">I couldn’t help laughing a little at the tone of these words;</span>
   <span id="f000269">and it led my companion immediately to say:</span>
   <span id="f000270">“Otherwise you wouldn’t have seen him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“But every one doesn’t see him who’s in love with her,</span>
   <span id="f000272">or there would be dozens.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“They’re not in love with her as you are.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“I can,</span>
   <span id="f000275">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000276">only speak for myself ;</span>
   <span id="f000277">and I found a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000278">before dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000279">to do so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“She told me immediately.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“And have I any hope – any chance?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“That’s what I long for,</span>
   <span id="f000283">what I pray for.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000285">how can I thank you enough?” I murmured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“I believe it will all pass – if she loves you,” Mrs Marden continued.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“It will all pass?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“We shall never see him again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000290">if she loves me I don’t care how often I see him!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000292">you take it better than I could,” said my companion.</span>
   <span id="f000293">“You have the happiness not to know – not to understand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“I don’t indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000295">What on earth does he want?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“He wants to make me suffer.” She turned her wan face upon me with this,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and I saw now for the first time,</span>
   <span id="f000298">fully,</span>
   <span id="f000299">how perfectly,</span>
   <span id="f000300">if this had been Sir Edmund Orme’s purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000301">he had succeeded.</span>
   <span id="f000302">“For what I did to him,” Mrs Marden explained.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“And what did you do to him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">She looked at me a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000305">“I killed him.” As I had seen him fifty yards away only five minutes before the words gave me a start.</span>
   <span id="f000306">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000307">I make you jump;</span>
   <span id="f000308">be careful.</span>
   <span id="f000309">He’s there still,</span>
   <span id="f000310">but he killed himself.</span>
   <span id="f000311">I broke his heart – he thought me awfully bad.</span>
   <span id="f000312">We were to have been married,</span>
   <span id="f000313">but I broke it off – just at the last.</span>
   <span id="f000314">I saw some one I liked better;</span>
   <span id="f000315">I had no reason but that.</span>
   <span id="f000316">It wasn’t for interest,</span>
   <span id="f000317">or money,</span>
   <span id="f000318">or position,</span>
   <span id="f000319">or anything of that sort.</span>
   <span id="f000320">All those things were his.</span>
   <span id="f000321">It was simply that I fell in love with Captain Marden.</span>
   <span id="f000322">When I saw him I felt that I couldn’t marry any one else.</span>
   <span id="f000323">I wasn’t in love with Edmund Orme – my mother,</span>
   <span id="f000324">my elder sister had brought it about.</span>
   <span id="f000325">But he did love me.</span>
   <span id="f000326">I told him I didn’t care – that I couldn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000327">that I wouldn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000328">I threw him over,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and he took something,</span>
   <span id="f000330">some abominable drug or draught that proved fatal.</span>
   <span id="f000331">It was dreadful,</span>
   <span id="f000332">it was horrible,</span>
   <span id="f000333">he was found that way – he died in agony.</span>
   <span id="f000334">I married Captain Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000335">but not for five years.</span>
   <span id="f000336">I was happy,</span>
   <span id="f000337">perfectly happy;</span>
   <span id="f000338">time obliterates.</span>
   <span id="f000339">But when my husband died I began to see him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">I had listened intently,</span>
   <span id="f000341">but I wondered.</span>
   <span id="f000342">“To see your husband?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">“Never,</span>
   <span id="f000344">never that way,</span>
   <span id="f000345">thank God!</span>
   <span id="f000346">To see him,</span>
   <span id="f000347">with Chartie – always with Chartie.</span>
   <span id="f000348">The first time it nearly killed me – about seven years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000349">when she first came out.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Never when I’m by myself – only with her.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Sometimes not for months,</span>
   <span id="f000352">then every day for a week.</span>
   <span id="f000353">I’ve tried everything to break the spell – doctors and régimes and climates;</span>
   <span id="f000354">I’ve prayed to God on my knees.</span>
   <span id="f000355">That day at Brighton,</span>
   <span id="f000356">on the Parade with you,</span>
   <span id="f000357">when you thought I was ill,</span>
   <span id="f000358">that was the first for an age.</span>
   <span id="f000359">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000360">in the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000361">when I knocked my tea over you,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and the day you were at the door with Charlotte and I saw you from the window – each time he was there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">“I see,</span>
   <span id="f000364">I see.” I was more thrilled than I could say.</span>
   <span id="f000365">“It’s an apparition like another.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“Like another?</span>
   <span id="f000367">Have you ever seen another?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000369">I mean the sort of thing one has heard of.</span>
   <span id="f000370">It’s tremendously interesting to encounter a case.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“Do you call me a ‘case’?” Mrs Marden asked,</span>
   <span id="f000372">with exquisite resentment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“I mean myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000375">you’re the right one!” she exclaimed.</span>
   <span id="f000376">“I was right when I trusted you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“I’m devoutly grateful you did;</span>
   <span id="f000378">but what made you do it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“I had thought the whole thing out – I had had time to in those dreadful years,</span>
   <span id="f000380">while he was punishing me in my daughter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">“Hardly that,” I objected,</span>
   <span id="f000382">“if she never knew.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">“That has been my terror,</span>
   <span id="f000384">that she will,</span>
   <span id="f000385">from one occasion to another.</span>
   <span id="f000386">I’ve an unspeakable dread of the effect on her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“She sha’n’t,</span>
   <span id="f000388">she sha’n’t!” I declared,</span>
   <span id="f000389">so loud that several people looked round.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Mrs Marden made me get up,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and I had no more talk with her that evening.</span>
   <span id="f000392">The next day I told her I must take my departure from Tranton – it was neither comfortable nor considerate to remain as a rejected suitor.</span>
   <span id="f000393">She was disconcerted,</span>
   <span id="f000394">but she accepted my reasons,</span>
   <span id="f000395">only saying to me out of her mournful eyes:</span>
   <span id="f000396">‘You’ll leave me alone then with my burden?’ It was of course understood between us that for many weeks to come there would be no discretion in ‘worrying poor Charlotte’:</span>
   <span id="f000397">such were the terms in which,</span>
   <span id="f000398">with odd feminine and maternal inconsistency,</span>
   <span id="f000399">she alluded to an attitude on my part that she favoured.</span>
   <span id="f000400">I was prepared to be heroically considerate,</span>
   <span id="f000401">but it seemed to me that even this delicacy permitted me to say a word to Miss Marden before I went.</span>
   <span id="f000402">I begged her,</span>
   <span id="f000403">after breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000404">to take a turn with me on the terrace,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and as she hesitated,</span>
   <span id="f000406">looking at me distantly,</span>
   <span id="f000407">I informed her that it was only to ask her a question and to say good-bye – I was leaving Tranton for her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">She came out with me,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and we passed slowly round the house three or four times.</span>
   <span id="f000410">Nothing is finer than this great airy platform,</span>
   <span id="f000411">from which every look is a sweep of the country,</span>
   <span id="f000412">with the sea on the furthest edge.</span>
   <span id="f000413">It might have been that as we passed the windows we were conspicuous to our friends in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000414">who would divine,</span>
   <span id="f000415">sarcastically,</span>
   <span id="f000416">why I was so significantly bolting.</span>
   <span id="f000417">But I didn’t care;</span>
   <span id="f000418">I only wondered whether they wouldn’t really this time make out Sir Edmund Orme,</span>
   <span id="f000419">who joined us on one of our turns and strolled slowly on the other side of my companion.</span>
   <span id="f000420">Of what transcendent essence he was composed I knew not;</span>
   <span id="f000421">I have no theory about him</span>
   <span id="f000422">(leaving that to others),</span>
   <span id="f000423">any more than I have one about such or such another of my fellow-mortals whom I have elbowed in life.</span>
   <span id="f000424">He was as positive,</span>
   <span id="f000425">as individual,</span>
   <span id="f000426">as ultimate a fact as any of these.</span>
   <span id="f000427">Above all he was as respectable,</span>
   <span id="f000428">as sensitive a fact;</span>
   <span id="f000429">so that I should no more have thought of taking a liberty,</span>
   <span id="f000430">of practising an experiment with him,</span>
   <span id="f000431">of touching him,</span>
   <span id="f000432">for instance,</span>
   <span id="f000433">or speaking to him,</span>
   <span id="f000434">since he set the example of silence,</span>
   <span id="f000435">than I should have thought of committing any other social grossness.</span>
   <span id="f000436">He had always,</span>
   <span id="f000437">as I saw more fully later,</span>
   <span id="f000438">the perfect propriety of his position – had always the appearance of being dressed and,</span>
   <span id="f000439">in attitude and aspect,</span>
   <span id="f000440">of comporting himself,</span>
   <span id="f000441">as the occasion demanded.</span>
   <span id="f000442">He looked strange,</span>
   <span id="f000443">incontestably,</span>
   <span id="f000444">but somehow he always looked right.</span>
   <span id="f000445">I very soon came to attach an idea of beauty to his unmentionable presence,</span>
   <span id="f000446">the beauty of an old story of love and pain.</span>
   <span id="f000447">What I ended by feeling was that he was on my side,</span>
   <span id="f000448">that he was watching over my interest,</span>
   <span id="f000449">that he was looking to it that my heart shouldn’t be broken.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000451">he had taken it seriously,</span>
   <span id="f000452">his own catastrophe – he had certainly proved that in his day.</span>
   <span id="f000453">If poor Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000454">as she told me,</span>
   <span id="f000455">had thought it out,</span>
   <span id="f000456">I also subjected the case to the finest analysis of which my intellect was capable.</span>
   <span id="f000457">It was a case of retributive justice.</span>
   <span id="f000458">The mother was to pay,</span>
   <span id="f000459">in suffering,</span>
   <span id="f000460">for the suffering she had inflicted,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and as the disposition to jilt a lover might have been transmitted to the daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000462">the daughter was to be watched,</span>
   <span id="f000463">so that she might be made to suffer should she do an equal wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000464">She might reproduce her mother in character as vividly as she did in face.</span>
   <span id="f000465">On the day she should transgress,</span>
   <span id="f000466">in other words,</span>
   <span id="f000467">her eyes would be opened suddenly and unpitiedly to the ‘perfect presence’,</span>
   <span id="f000468">which she would have to work as she could into her conception of a young lady’s universe.</span>
   <span id="f000469">I had no great fear for her,</span>
   <span id="f000470">because I didn’t believe she was,</span>
   <span id="f000471">in any cruel degree,</span>
   <span id="f000472">a coquette.</span>
   <span id="f000473">We should have a good deal of ground to get over before I,</span>
   <span id="f000474">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000475">should be in a position to be sacrificed by her.</span>
   <span id="f000476">She couldn’t throw me over before she had made a little more of me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">The question I asked her on the terrace that morning was whether I might continue,</span>
   <span id="f000478">during the winter,</span>
   <span id="f000479">to come to Mrs Marden’s house.</span>
   <span id="f000480">I promised not to come too often and not to speak to her for three months of the question I had raised the day before.</span>
   <span id="f000481">She replied that I might do as I liked,</span>
   <span id="f000482">and on this we parted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">I carried out the vow I had made her;</span>
   <span id="f000484">I held my tongue for my three months.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Unexpectedly to myself there were moments of this time when she struck me as capable of playing with a man.</span>
   <span id="f000486">I wanted so to make her like me that I became subtle and ingenious,</span>
   <span id="f000487">wonderfully alert,</span>
   <span id="f000488">patiently diplomatic.</span>
   <span id="f000489">Sometimes I thought I had earned my reward,</span>
   <span id="f000490">brought her to the point of saying:</span>
   <span id="f000491">‘Well,</span>
   <span id="f000492">well,</span>
   <span id="f000493">you’re the best of them all – you may speak to me now.’ Then there was a greater blankness than ever in her beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and on certain days a mocking light in her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000495">of which the meaning seemed to be:</span>
   <span id="f000496">‘If you don’t take care,</span>
   <span id="f000497">I will accept you,</span>
   <span id="f000498">to have done with you the more effectually.’ Mrs Marden was a great help to me simply by believing in me,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and I valued her faith all the more that it continued even though there was a sudden intermission of the miracle that had been wrought for me.</span>
   <span id="f000500">After our visit to Tranton Sir Edmund Orme gave us a holiday,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and I confess it was at first a disappointment to me.</span>
   <span id="f000502">I felt less designated,</span>
   <span id="f000503">less connected with Charlotte.</span>
   <span id="f000504">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000505">don’t cry till you’re out of the wood,” her mother said;</span>
   <span id="f000506">“he has let me off sometimes for six months.</span>
   <span id="f000507">He’ll break out again when you least expect it – he knows what he’s about.” For her these weeks were happy,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and she was wise enough not to talk about me to the girl.</span>
   <span id="f000509">She was so good as to assure me that I was taking the right way,</span>
   <span id="f000510">that I looked as if I felt secure and that in the long run women give way to that.</span>
   <span id="f000511">She had known them do it even when the man was a fool for looking so – or was a fool on any terms.</span>
   <span id="f000512">For herself she felt it to be a good time,</span>
   <span id="f000513">a sort of St Martin’s summer of the soul.</span>
   <span id="f000514">She was better than she had been for years,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and she had me to thank for it.</span>
   <span id="f000516">The sense of visitation was light upon her – she wasn’t in anguish every time she looked round.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Charlotte contradicted me very often,</span>
   <span id="f000518">but she contradicted herself still more.</span>
   <span id="f000519">That winter was a wonder of mildness,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and we often sat out in the sun.</span>
   <span id="f000521">I walked up and down with Charlotte,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000523">sometimes on a bench,</span>
   <span id="f000524">sometimes in a bath-chair,</span>
   <span id="f000525">waited for us and smiled at us as we passed.</span>
   <span id="f000526">I always looked out for a sign in her face – ‘He’s with you,</span>
   <span id="f000527">he’s with you’</span>
   <span id="f000528">(she would see him before I should),</span>
   <span id="f000529">but nothing came;</span>
   <span id="f000530">the season had brought us also a sort of spiritual softness.</span>
   <span id="f000531">Toward the end of April the air was so like June that,</span>
   <span id="f000532">meeting my two friends one night at some Brighton sociability – an evening party with amateur music – I drew Miss Marden unresistingly out upon a balcony to which a window in one of the rooms stood open.</span>
   <span id="f000533">The night was close and thick,</span>
   <span id="f000534">the stars were dim,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and below us,</span>
   <span id="f000536">under the cliff,</span>
   <span id="f000537">we heard the regular rumble of the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000538">We listened to it a little and we heard mixed with it,</span>
   <span id="f000539">from within the house,</span>
   <span id="f000540">the sound of a violin accompanied by a piano – a performance which had been our pretext for passing out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">“Do you like me a little better?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000542">abruptly,</span>
   <span id="f000543">after a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000544">“Could you listen to me again?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">I had no sooner spoken than she laid her hand quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000546">with a certain force,</span>
   <span id="f000547">on my arm.</span>
   <span id="f000548">“Hush!</span>
   <span id="f000549">– isn’t there some one there?” She was looking into the gloom of the far end of the balcony.</span>
   <span id="f000550">This balcony ran the whole width of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000551">a width very great in the best of the old houses at Brighton.</span>
   <span id="f000552">We were lighted a little by the open window behind us,</span>
   <span id="f000553">but the other windows,</span>
   <span id="f000554">curtained within,</span>
   <span id="f000555">left the darkness undiminished,</span>
   <span id="f000556">so that I made out but dimly the figure of a gentleman standing there and looking at us.</span>
   <span id="f000557">He was in evening dress,</span>
   <span id="f000558">like a guest – I saw the vague shine of his white shirt and the pale oval of his face – and he might perfectly have been a guest who had stepped out in advance of us to take the air.</span>
   <span id="f000559">Miss Marden took him for one at first – then evidently,</span>
   <span id="f000560">even in a few seconds,</span>
   <span id="f000561">she saw that the intensity of his gaze was unconventional.</span>
   <span id="f000562">What else she saw I couldn’t determine;</span>
   <span id="f000563">I was too taken up with my own impression to do more than feel the quick contact of her uneasiness.</span>
   <span id="f000564">My own impression was in fact the strongest of sensations,</span>
   <span id="f000565">a sensation of horror;</span>
   <span id="f000566">for what could the thing mean but that the girl at last saw?</span>
   <span id="f000567">I heard her give a sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000568">gasping “Ah!” and move quickly into the house.</span>
   <span id="f000569">It was only afterwards that I knew that I myself had had a totally new emotion – my horror passing into anger,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and my anger into a stride along the balcony with a gesture of reprobation.</span>
   <span id="f000571">The case was simplified to the vision of a frightened girl whom I loved.</span>
   <span id="f000572">I advanced to vindicate her security,</span>
   <span id="f000573">but I found nothing there to meet me.</span>
   <span id="f000574">It was either all a mistake or Sir Edmund Orme had vanished.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">I followed Miss Marden immediately,</span>
   <span id="f000576">but there were symptoms of confusion in the drawing-room when I passed in.</span>
   <span id="f000577">A lady had fainted,</span>
   <span id="f000578">the music had stopped;</span>
   <span id="f000579">there was a shuffling of chairs and a pressing forward.</span>
   <span id="f000580">The lady was not Charlotte,</span>
   <span id="f000581">as I feared,</span>
   <span id="f000582">but Mrs Marden,</span>
   <span id="f000583">who had suddenly been taken ill.</span>
   <span id="f000584">I remember the relief with which I learned this,</span>
   <span id="f000585">for to see Charlotte stricken would have been anguish,</span>
   <span id="f000586">and her mother’s condition gave a channel to her agitation.</span>
   <span id="f000587">It was of course all a matter for the people of the house and for the ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000588">and I could have no share in attending to my friends or in conducting them to their carriage.</span>
   <span id="f000589">Mrs Marden revived and insisted on going home,</span>
   <span id="f000590">after which I uneasily withdrew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">I called the next morning to ask about her and was informed that she was better,</span>
   <span id="f000592">but when I asked if Miss Marden would see me the message sent down was that it was impossible.</span>
   <span id="f000593">There was nothing for me to do all day but to roam about with a beating heart.</span>
   <span id="f000594">But toward evening I received a line in pencil,</span>
   <span id="f000595">brought by hand – ‘Please come;</span>
   <span id="f000596">mother wishes you.’ Five minutes afterward I was at the door again and ushered into the drawing-room.</span>
   <span id="f000597">Mrs Marden lay upon the sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and as soon as I looked at her I saw the shadow of death in her face.</span>
   <span id="f000599">But the first thing she said was that she was better,</span>
   <span id="f000600">ever so much better;</span>
   <span id="f000601">her poor old heart had been behaving queerly again,</span>
   <span id="f000602">but now it was quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000603">She gave me her hand and I bent over her with my eyes in hers,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and in this way I was able to read what she didn’t speak – ‘I’m really very ill,</span>
   <span id="f000605">but appear to take what I say exactly as I say it.’ Charlotte stood there beside her,</span>
   <span id="f000606">looking not frightened now,</span>
   <span id="f000607">but intensely grave,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and not meeting my eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000609">“She has told me – she has told me!” her mother went on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">“She has told you?” I stared from one of them to the other,</span>
   <span id="f000611">wondering if Mrs Marden meant that the girl had spoken to her of the circumstances on the balcony.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">“That you spoke to her again – that you’re admirably faithful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">I felt a thrill of joy at this;</span>
   <span id="f000614">it showed me that that memory had been uppermost,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and also that Charlotte had wished to say the thing that would soothe her mother most,</span>
   <span id="f000616">not the thing that would alarm her.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Yet I now knew,</span>
   <span id="f000618">myself,</span>
   <span id="f000619">as well as if Mrs Marden had told me,</span>
   <span id="f000620">that she knew and had known at the moment what her daughter had seen.</span>
   <span id="f000621">“I spoke – I spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000622">but she gave me no answer,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">“She will now,</span>
   <span id="f000624">won’t you,</span>
   <span id="f000625">Chartie?</span>
   <span id="f000626">I want it so,</span>
   <span id="f000627">I want it!” the poor lady murmured,</span>
   <span id="f000628">with ineffable wistfulness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">“You’re very good to me,” Charlotte said to me,</span>
   <span id="f000630">seriously and sweetly,</span>
   <span id="f000631">looking fixedly on the carpet.</span>
   <span id="f000632">There was something different in her,</span>
   <span id="f000633">different from all the past.</span>
   <span id="f000634">She had recognised something,</span>
   <span id="f000635">she felt a coercion.</span>
   <span id="f000636">I could see that she was trembling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000637">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000638">if you would let me show you how good I can be!” I exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000639">holding out my hands to her.</span>
   <span id="f000640">As I uttered the words I was touched with the knowledge that something had happened.</span>
   <span id="f000641">A form had constituted itself on the other side of the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000642">and the form leaned over Mrs Marden.</span>
   <span id="f000643">My whole being went forth into a mute prayer that Charlotte shouldn’t see it and that I should be able to betray nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000644">The impulse to glance toward Mrs Marden was even stronger than the involuntary movement of taking in Sir Edmund Orme;</span>
   <span id="f000645">but I could resist even that,</span>
   <span id="f000646">and Mrs Marden was perfectly still.</span>
   <span id="f000647">Charlotte got up to give me her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and with the definite act she saw.</span>
   <span id="f000649">She gave,</span>
   <span id="f000650">with a shriek,</span>
   <span id="f000651">one stare of dismay,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and another sound,</span>
   <span id="f000653">like a wail of one of the lost,</span>
   <span id="f000654">fell at the same instant on my ear.</span>
   <span id="f000655">But I had already sprung toward the girl to cover her,</span>
   <span id="f000656">to veil her face.</span>
   <span id="f000657">She had already thrown herself into my arms.</span>
   <span id="f000658">I held her there a moment – bending over her,</span>
   <span id="f000659">given up to her,</span>
   <span id="f000660">feeling each of her throbs with my own and not knowing which was which;</span>
   <span id="f000661">then,</span>
   <span id="f000662">all of a sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000663">coldly,</span>
   <span id="f000664">I gathered that we were alone.</span>
   <span id="f000665">She released herself.</span>
   <span id="f000666">The figure beside the sofa had vanished;</span>
   <span id="f000667">but Mrs Marden lay in her place with closed eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000668">with something in her stillness that gave us both another terror.</span>
   <span id="f000669">Charlotte expressed it in the cry of “Mother,</span>
   <span id="f000670">mother!” with which she flung herself down.</span>
   <span id="f000671">I fell on my knees beside her.</span>
   <span id="f000672">Mrs Marden had passed away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">Was the sound I heard when Chartie shrieked – the other and still more tragic sound I mean – the despairing cry of the poor lady’s death-shock or the articulate sob</span>
   <span id="f000674">(it was like a waft from a great tempest),</span>
   <span id="f000675">of the exorcised and pacified spirit?</span>
   <span id="f000676">Possibly the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000677">for that was,</span>
   <span id="f000678">mercifully,</span>
   <span id="f000679">the last of Sir Edmund Orme.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

