<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Gregg Margarite</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Tarquin of Cheapside</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Running footsteps – light,</span>
   <span id="f000008">soft-soled shoes made of curious leathery cloth brought from Ceylon setting the pace;</span>
   <span id="f000009">thick flowing boots,</span>
   <span id="f000010">two pairs,</span>
   <span id="f000011">dark blue and gilt,</span>
   <span id="f000012">reflecting the moonlight in blunt gleams and splotches,</span>
   <span id="f000013">following a stone’s throw behind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Soft Shoes flashes through a patch of moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000015">then darts into a blind labyrinth of alleys and becomes only an intermittent scuffle ahead somewhere in the enfolding darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000016">In go Flowing Boots,</span>
   <span id="f000017">with short swords lurching and long plumes awry,</span>
   <span id="f000018">finding a breath to curse God and the black lanes of London.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">Soft Shoes leaps a shadowy gate and crackles through a hedgerow.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Flowing Boots leap the gate and crackles through the hedgerow – and there,</span>
   <span id="f000021">startlingly,</span>
   <span id="f000022">is the watch ahead – two murderous pikemen of ferocious cast of mouth acquired in Holland and the Spanish marches.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">But there is no cry for help.</span>
   <span id="f000024">The pursued does not fall panting at the feet of the watch,</span>
   <span id="f000025">clutching a purse;</span>
   <span id="f000026">neither do the pursuers raise a hue and cry.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Soft Shoes goes by in a rush of swift air.</span>
   <span id="f000028">The watch curse and hesitate,</span>
   <span id="f000029">glance after the fugitive,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and then spread their pikes grimly across the road and wait for Flowing Boots.</span>
   <span id="f000031">Darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000032">like a great hand,</span>
   <span id="f000033">cuts off the even flow the moon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">The hand moves off the moon whose pale caress finds again the eaves and lintels,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and the watch,</span>
   <span id="f000036">wounded and tumbled in the dust.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Up the street one of Flowing Boots leaves a black trail of spots until he binds himself,</span>
   <span id="f000038">clumsily as he runs,</span>
   <span id="f000039">with fine lace caught from his throat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">It was no affair for the watch:</span>
   <span id="f000041">Satan was at large tonight and Satan seemed to be he who appeared dimly in front,</span>
   <span id="f000042">heel over gate,</span>
   <span id="f000043">knee over fence.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000045">the adversary was obviously travelling near home or at least in that section of London consecrated to his coarser whims,</span>
   <span id="f000046">for the street narrowed like a road in a picture and the houses bent over further and further,</span>
   <span id="f000047">cooping in natural ambushes suitable for murder and its histrionic sister,</span>
   <span id="f000048">sudden death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">Down long and sinuous lanes twisted the hunted and the harriers,</span>
   <span id="f000050">always in and out of the moon in a perpetual queen’s move over a checker-board of glints and patches.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Ahead,</span>
   <span id="f000052">the quarry,</span>
   <span id="f000053">minus his leather jerkin now and half blinded by drips of sweat,</span>
   <span id="f000054">had taken to scanning his ground desperately on both sides.</span>
   <span id="f000055">As a result he suddenly slowed short,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and retracing his steps a bit scooted up an alley so dark that it seemed that here sun and moon had been in eclipse since the last glacier slipped roaring over the earth.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Two hundred yards down he stopped and crammed himself into a niche in the wall where he huddled and panted silently,</span>
   <span id="f000058">a grotesque god without bulk or outline in the gloom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">Flowing Boots,</span>
   <span id="f000060">two pairs,</span>
   <span id="f000061">drew near,</span>
   <span id="f000062">came up,</span>
   <span id="f000063">went by,</span>
   <span id="f000064">halted twenty yards beyond him,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and spoke in deep-lunged,</span>
   <span id="f000066">scanty whispers:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“I was attune to that scuffle;</span>
   <span id="f000068">it stopped.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“Within twenty paces.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“He’s hid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“Stay together now and we’ll cut him up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">The voice faded into a low crunch of a boot,</span>
   <span id="f000073">nor did Soft Shoes wait to hear more – he sprang in three leaps across the alley,</span>
   <span id="f000074">where he bounded up,</span>
   <span id="f000075">flapped for a moment on the top of the wall like a huge bird,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000077">gulped down by the hungry night at a mouthful.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000078">II</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000079">“He read at wine,</span>
   <span id="f000080">he read in bed,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000081">He read aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000082">had he the breath,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000083">His every thought was with the dead,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000084">And so he read himself to death.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000085">Any visitor to the old James the First graveyard near Peat’s Hill may spell out this bit of doggerel,</span>
   <span id="f000086">undoubtedly one of the worst recorded of an Elizabethan,</span>
   <span id="f000087">on the tomb of Wessel Caster.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">This death of his,</span>
   <span id="f000089">says the antiquary,</span>
   <span id="f000090">occurred when he was thirty-seven,</span>
   <span id="f000091">but as this story is concerned with the night of a certain chase through darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000092">we find him still alive,</span>
   <span id="f000093">still reading.</span>
   <span id="f000094">His eyes were somewhat dim,</span>
   <span id="f000095">his stomach somewhat obvious-he was a mis-built man and indolent – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000096">Heavens!</span>
   <span id="f000097">But an era is an era,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and in the reign of Elizabeth,</span>
   <span id="f000099">by the grace of Luther,</span>
   <span id="f000100">Queen of England,</span>
   <span id="f000101">no man could help but catch the spirit of enthusiasm.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Every loft in Cheapside published its <em>Magnum Folium</em></span>
   <span id="f000103">(or magazine)</span>
   <span id="f000104">– of its new blank verse;</span>
   <span id="f000105">the Cheapside Players would produce anything on sight as long as it “got away from those reactionary miracle plays,” and the English Bible had run through seven “very large” printings in,</span>
   <span id="f000106">as many months.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">So Wessel Caxter</span>
   <span id="f000108">(who in his youth had gone to sea)</span>
   <span id="f000109">was now a reader of all on which he could lay his hands – he read manuscripts In holy friendship;</span>
   <span id="f000110">he dined rotten poets;</span>
   <span id="f000111">he loitered about the shops where the <em>Magna Folia</em> were printed,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and he listened tolerantly while the young playwrights wrangled and bickered among them-selves,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and behind each other’s backs made bitter and malicious charges of plagiarism or anything else they could think of.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">To-night he had a book,</span>
   <span id="f000115">a piece of work which,</span>
   <span id="f000116">though inordinately versed,</span>
   <span id="f000117">contained,</span>
   <span id="f000118">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000119">some rather excellent political satire.</span>
   <span id="f000120">“The Faerie Queene” by Edmund Spenser lay before him under the tremulous candle-light.</span>
   <span id="f000121">He had ploughed through a canto;</span>
   <span id="f000122">he was beginning another:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000123">THE LEGEND OF BRITOMARTIS OR OF CHASTITY</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124"><em>It falls me here to write of Chastity.<br /></em></span>
   <span id="f000125"><em>The fayrest vertue, </em></span>
   <span id="f000126"><em>far above the rest</em>…</span>
   <span id="f000127">.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000128">A sudden rush of feet on the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000129">a rusty swing-open of the thin door,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and a man thrust himself into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000131">a man without a jerkin,</span>
   <span id="f000132">panting,</span>
   <span id="f000133">sobbing,</span>
   <span id="f000134">on the verge of collapse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“Wessel,” words choked him,</span>
   <span id="f000136">“stick me away somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000137">love of Our Lady!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">Caxter rose,</span>
   <span id="f000139">carefully closing his book,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and bolted the door in some concern.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“I’m pursued,” cried out Soft Shoes.</span>
   <span id="f000142">“I vow there’s two short-witted blades trying to make me into mincemeat and near succeeding.</span>
   <span id="f000143">They saw me hop the back wall!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“It would need,” said Wessel,</span>
   <span id="f000145">looking at him curiously,</span>
   <span id="f000146">“several battalions armed with blunderbusses,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and two or three Armadas,</span>
   <span id="f000148">to keep you reasonably secure from the revenges of the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">Soft Shoes smiled with satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000150">His sobbing gasps were giving way to quick,</span>
   <span id="f000151">precise breathing;</span>
   <span id="f000152">his hunted air had faded to a faintly perturbed irony.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“I feel little surprise,” continued Wessel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“They were two such dreary apes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“Making a total of three.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“Only two unless you stick me away.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Man,</span>
   <span id="f000158">man,</span>
   <span id="f000159">come alive,</span>
   <span id="f000160">they’ll be on the stairs in a spark’s age.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">Wessel took a dismantled pike-staff from the corner,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and raising it to the high ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f000163">dislodged a rough trap-door opening into a garret above.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">“There’s no ladder.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">He moved a bench under the trap,</span>
   <span id="f000166">upon which Soft Shoes mounted,</span>
   <span id="f000167">crouched,</span>
   <span id="f000168">hesitated,</span>
   <span id="f000169">crouched again,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and then leaped amazingly upward.</span>
   <span id="f000171">He caught at the edge of the aperture and swung back and forth,</span>
   <span id="f000172">for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000173">shifting his hold;</span>
   <span id="f000174">finally doubled up and disappeared into the darkness above.</span>
   <span id="f000175">There was a scurry,</span>
   <span id="f000176">a migration of rats,</span>
   <span id="f000177">as the trap-door was replaced;…</span>
   <span id="f000178">silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">Wessel returned to his reading-table,</span>
   <span id="f000180">opened to the Legend of Britomartis or of Chastity – and waited.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Almost a minute later there was a scramble on the stairs and an intolerable hammering at the door.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Wessel sighed and,</span>
   <span id="f000183">picking up his candle,</span>
   <span id="f000184">rose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“Who’s there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“Open the door!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“Who’s there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">An aching blow frightened the frail wood,</span>
   <span id="f000189">splintered it around the edge.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Wessel opened it a scarce three inches,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and held the candle high.</span>
   <span id="f000192">His was to play the timorous,</span>
   <span id="f000193">the super-respectable citizen,</span>
   <span id="f000194">disgracefully disturbed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“One small hour of the night for rest.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Is that too much to ask from every brawler and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“Quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000198">gossip!</span>
   <span id="f000199">Have you seen a perspiring fellow?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">The shadows of two gallants fell in immense wavering outlines over the narrow stairs;</span>
   <span id="f000201">by the light Wessel scrutinized them closely.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000203">they were,</span>
   <span id="f000204">hastily but richly dressed – one of them wounded severely in the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000205">both radiating a sort of furious horror.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Waving aside Wessel’s ready miscomprehension,</span>
   <span id="f000207">they pushed by him into the room and with their swords went through the business of poking carefully into all suspected dark spots in the room,</span>
   <span id="f000208">further extending their search to Wessel’s bedchamber.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“Is he hid here?” demanded the wounded man fiercely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“Is who here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“Any man but you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Only two others that I know of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">For a second Wessel feared that he had been too damned funny,</span>
   <span id="f000214">for the gallants made as though to prick him through.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“I heard a man on the stairs,” he said hastily,</span>
   <span id="f000216">“full five minutes ago,</span>
   <span id="f000217">it was.</span>
   <span id="f000218">He most certainly failed to come up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">He went on to explain his absorption in “The Faerie Queene” but,</span>
   <span id="f000220">for the moment at least,</span>
   <span id="f000221">his visitors,</span>
   <span id="f000222">like the great saints,</span>
   <span id="f000223">were anaesthetic to culture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“What’s been done?” inquired Wessel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“Violence!” said the man with the wounded hand.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Wessel noticed that his eyes were quite wild.</span>
   <span id="f000227">“My own sister.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000229">Christ in heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000230">give us this man!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">Wessel winced.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“Who is the man?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">“God’s word!</span>
   <span id="f000234">We know not even that.</span>
   <span id="f000235">What’s that trap up there?” he added suddenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“It’s nailed down.</span>
   <span id="f000237">It’s not been used for years.” He thought of the pole in the corner and quailed in his belly,</span>
   <span id="f000238">but the utter despair of the two men dulled their astuteness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“It would take a ladder for any one not a tumbler,” said the wounded man listlessly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">His companion broke into hysterical laughter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“A tumbler.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000243">a tumbler.</span>
   <span id="f000244">Oh – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">Wessel stared at them in wonder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“That appeals to my most tragic humor,” cried the man,</span>
   <span id="f000247">“that no one – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000248">no one – could get up there but a tumbler.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">The gallant with the wounded hand snapped his good fingers impatiently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“We must go next door – and then on – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">Helplessly they went as two walking under a dark and storm-swept sky.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">Wessel closed and bolted the door and stood a moment by it,</span>
   <span id="f000253">frowning in pity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">A low-breathed “Ha!” made him look up.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Soft Shoes had already raised the trap and was looking down into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000256">his rather elfish face squeezed into a grimace,</span>
   <span id="f000257">half of distaste,</span>
   <span id="f000258">half of sardonic amusement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">“They take off their heads with their helmets,” he remarked in a whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000260">“but as for you and me,</span>
   <span id="f000261">Wessel,</span>
   <span id="f000262">we are two cunning men.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Now you be cursed,” cried Wessel vehemently.</span>
   <span id="f000264">“I knew you for a dog,</span>
   <span id="f000265">but when I hear even the half of a tale like this,</span>
   <span id="f000266">I know you for such a dirty cur that I am minded to club your skull.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">Soft Shoes stared at him,</span>
   <span id="f000268">blinking.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“At all events,” he replied finally,</span>
   <span id="f000270">“I find dignity impossible in this position.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">With this he let his body through the trap,</span>
   <span id="f000272">hung for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and dropped the seven feet to the floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“There was a rat considered my ear with the air of a gourmet,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000275">dusting his hands on his breeches.</span>
   <span id="f000276">“I told him in the rat’s peculiar idiom that I was deadly poison,</span>
   <span id="f000277">so he took himself off.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“Let’s hear of this night’s lechery!” insisted Wessel angrily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">Soft Shoes touched his thumb to his nose and wiggled the fingers derisively at Wessel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“Street gamin!” muttered Wessel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“Have you any paper?” demanded Soft Shoes irrelevantly,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and then rudely added,</span>
   <span id="f000283">“or can you write?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">“Why should I give you paper?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">“You wanted to hear of the night’s entertainment.</span>
   <span id="f000286">So you shall,</span>
   <span id="f000287">an you give me pen,</span>
   <span id="f000288">ink,</span>
   <span id="f000289">a sheaf of paper,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and a room to myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">Wessel hesitated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“Get out!” he said finally.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“As you will.</span>
   <span id="f000294">Yet you have missed a most intriguing story.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">Wessel wavered – he was soft as taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000296">that man – gave in.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Soft Shoes went into the adjoining room with the begrudged writing materials and precisely closed the door.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Wessel grunted and returned to “The Faerie Queene”;</span>
   <span id="f000299">so silence came once more upon the house.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000300">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000301">Three o’clock went into four.</span>
   <span id="f000302">The room paled,</span>
   <span id="f000303">the dark outside was shot through with damp and chill,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and Wessel,</span>
   <span id="f000305">cupping his brain in his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000306">bent low over his table,</span>
   <span id="f000307">tracing through the pattern of knights and fairies and the harrowing distresses of many girls.</span>
   <span id="f000308">There were dragons chortling along the narrow street outside;</span>
   <span id="f000309">when the sleepy armorer’s boy began his work at half-past five the heavy clink and clank of plate and linked mail swelled to the echo of a marching cavalcade.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">A fog shut down at the first flare of dawn,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and the room was grayish yellow at six when Wessel tiptoed to his cupboard bedchamber and pulled open the door.</span>
   <span id="f000312">His guest turned on him a face pale as parchment in which two distraught eyes burned like great red letters.</span>
   <span id="f000313">He had drawn a chair close to Wessel’s <em>prie-dieu</em> which he was using as a desk;</span>
   <span id="f000314">and on it was an amazing stack of closely written pages.</span>
   <span id="f000315">With a long sigh Wessel withdrew and returned to his siren,</span>
   <span id="f000316">calling himself fool for not claiming his bed here at dawn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">The dump of boots outside,</span>
   <span id="f000318">the croaking of old beldames from attic to attic,</span>
   <span id="f000319">the dull murmur of morning,</span>
   <span id="f000320">unnerved him,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and,</span>
   <span id="f000322">dozing,</span>
   <span id="f000323">he slumped in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000324">his brain,</span>
   <span id="f000325">overladen with sound and color,</span>
   <span id="f000326">working intolerably over the imagery that stacked it.</span>
   <span id="f000327">In this restless dream of his he was one of a thousand groaning bodies crushed near the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000328">a helpless bridge for the strong-eyed Apollo.</span>
   <span id="f000329">The dream tore at him,</span>
   <span id="f000330">scraped along his mind like a ragged knife.</span>
   <span id="f000331">When a hot hand touched his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000332">he awoke with what was nearly a scream to find the fog thick in the room and his guest,</span>
   <span id="f000333">a gray ghost of misty stuff,</span>
   <span id="f000334">beside him with a pile of paper in his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“It should be a most intriguing tale,</span>
   <span id="f000336">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000337">though it requires some going over.</span>
   <span id="f000338">May I ask you to lock it away,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and in God’s name let me sleep?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">He waited for no answer,</span>
   <span id="f000341">but thrust the pile at Wessel,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and literally poured himself like stuff from a suddenly inverted bottle upon a couch in the corner,</span>
   <span id="f000343">slept,</span>
   <span id="f000344">with his breathing regular,</span>
   <span id="f000345">but his brow wrinkled in a curious and somewhat uncanny manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">Wessel yawned sleepily and,</span>
   <span id="f000347">glancing at the scrawled,</span>
   <span id="f000348">uncertain first page,</span>
   <span id="f000349">he began reading aloud very softly:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000350">The Rape of Lucrece</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“From the besieged Ardea all in post,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000352">Borne by the trustless wings of false desire,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000353">Lust-breathing Tarquin leaves the Roman host – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

