<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br /><em>Sandra</em></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000004">Love of Life</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000005">by<br />Jack London</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000006">“This out of all will remain – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000007">They have lived and have tossed:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000008">So much of the game will be gain,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000009">Though the gold of the dice has been lost.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000010">They limped painfully down the bank,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and once the foremost of the two men staggered among the rough-strewn rocks.</span>
   <span id="f000012">They were tired and weak,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and their faces had the drawn expression of patience which comes of hardship long endured.</span>
   <span id="f000014">They were heavily burdened with blanket packs which were strapped to their shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Head-straps,</span>
   <span id="f000016">passing across the forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000017">helped support these packs.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Each man carried a rifle.</span>
   <span id="f000019">They walked in a stooped posture,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the shoulders well forward,</span>
   <span id="f000021">the head still farther forward,</span>
   <span id="f000022">the eyes bent upon the ground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">“I wish we had just about two of them cartridges that’s layin’ in that cache of ourn,” said the second man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">His voice was utterly and drearily expressionless.</span>
   <span id="f000025">He spoke without enthusiasm;</span>
   <span id="f000026">and the first man,</span>
   <span id="f000027">limping into the milky stream that foamed over the rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000028">vouchsafed no reply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">The other man followed at his heels.</span>
   <span id="f000030">They did not remove their foot-gear,</span>
   <span id="f000031">though the water was icy cold – so cold that their ankles ached and their feet went numb.</span>
   <span id="f000032">In places the water dashed against their knees,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and both men staggered for footing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">The man who followed slipped on a smooth boulder,</span>
   <span id="f000035">nearly fell,</span>
   <span id="f000036">but recovered himself with a violent effort,</span>
   <span id="f000037">at the same time uttering a sharp exclamation of pain.</span>
   <span id="f000038">He seemed faint and dizzy and put out his free hand while he reeled,</span>
   <span id="f000039">as though seeking support against the air.</span>
   <span id="f000040">When he had steadied himself he stepped forward,</span>
   <span id="f000041">but reeled again and nearly fell.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Then he stood still and looked at the other man,</span>
   <span id="f000043">who had never turned his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">The man stood still for fully a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000045">as though debating with himself.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Then he called out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“I say,</span>
   <span id="f000048">Bill,</span>
   <span id="f000049">I’ve sprained my ankle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">Bill staggered on through the milky water.</span>
   <span id="f000051">He did not look around.</span>
   <span id="f000052">The man watched him go,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and though his face was expressionless as ever,</span>
   <span id="f000054">his eyes were like the eyes of a wounded deer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">The other man limped up the farther bank and continued straight on without looking back.</span>
   <span id="f000056">The man in the stream watched him.</span>
   <span id="f000057">His lips trembled a little,</span>
   <span id="f000058">so that the rough thatch of brown hair which covered them was visibly agitated.</span>
   <span id="f000059">His tongue even strayed out to moisten them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“Bill!” he cried out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">It was the pleading cry of a strong man in distress,</span>
   <span id="f000062">but Bill’s head did not turn.</span>
   <span id="f000063">The man watched him go,</span>
   <span id="f000064">limping grotesquely and lurching forward with stammering gait up the slow slope toward the soft sky-line of the low-lying hill.</span>
   <span id="f000065">He watched him go till he passed over the crest and disappeared.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Then he turned his gaze and slowly took in the circle of the world that remained to him now that Bill was gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">Near the horizon the sun was smouldering dimly,</span>
   <span id="f000068">almost obscured by formless mists and vapors,</span>
   <span id="f000069">which gave an impression of mass and density without outline or tangibility.</span>
   <span id="f000070">The man pulled out his watch,</span>
   <span id="f000071">the while resting his weight on one leg.</span>
   <span id="f000072">It was four o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and as the season was near the last of July or first of August,</span>
   <span id="f000074">– he did not know the precise date within a week or two,</span>
   <span id="f000075">– he knew that the sun roughly marked the northwest.</span>
   <span id="f000076">He looked to the south and knew that somewhere beyond those bleak hills lay the Great Bear Lake;</span>
   <span id="f000077">also,</span>
   <span id="f000078">he knew that in that direction the Arctic Circle cut its forbidding way across the Canadian Barrens.</span>
   <span id="f000079">This stream in which he stood was a feeder to the Coppermine River,</span>
   <span id="f000080">which in turn flowed north and emptied into Coronation Gulf and the Arctic Ocean.</span>
   <span id="f000081">He had never been there,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but he had seen it,</span>
   <span id="f000083">once,</span>
   <span id="f000084">on a Hudson Bay Company chart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">Again his gaze completed the circle of the world about him.</span>
   <span id="f000086">It was not a heartening spectacle.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Everywhere was soft sky-line.</span>
   <span id="f000088">The hills were all low-lying.</span>
   <span id="f000089">There were no trees,</span>
   <span id="f000090">no shrubs,</span>
   <span id="f000091">no grasses – naught but a tremendous and terrible desolation that sent fear swiftly dawning into his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Bill!” he whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000093">once and twice;</span>
   <span id="f000094">“Bill!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">He cowered in the midst of the milky water,</span>
   <span id="f000096">as though the vastness were pressing in upon him with overwhelming force,</span>
   <span id="f000097">brutally crushing him with its complacent awfulness.</span>
   <span id="f000098">He began to shake as with an ague-fit,</span>
   <span id="f000099">till the gun fell from his hand with a splash.</span>
   <span id="f000100">This served to rouse him.</span>
   <span id="f000101">He fought with his fear and pulled himself together,</span>
   <span id="f000102">groping in the water and recovering the weapon.</span>
   <span id="f000103">He hitched his pack farther over on his left shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000104">so as to take a portion of its weight from off the injured ankle.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Then he proceeded,</span>
   <span id="f000106">slowly and carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000107">wincing with pain,</span>
   <span id="f000108">to the bank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">He did not stop.</span>
   <span id="f000110">With a desperation that was madness,</span>
   <span id="f000111">unmindful of the pain,</span>
   <span id="f000112">he hurried up the slope to the crest of the hill over which his comrade had disappeared – more grotesque and comical by far than that limping,</span>
   <span id="f000113">jerking comrade.</span>
   <span id="f000114">But at the crest he saw a shallow valley,</span>
   <span id="f000115">empty of life.</span>
   <span id="f000116">He fought with his fear again,</span>
   <span id="f000117">overcame it,</span>
   <span id="f000118">hitched the pack still farther over on his left shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and lurched on down the slope.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">The bottom of the valley was soggy with water,</span>
   <span id="f000121">which the thick moss held,</span>
   <span id="f000122">spongelike,</span>
   <span id="f000123">close to the surface.</span>
   <span id="f000124">This water squirted out from under his feet at every step,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and each time he lifted a foot the action culminated in a sucking sound as the wet moss reluctantly released its grip.</span>
   <span id="f000126">He picked his way from muskeg to muskeg,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and followed the other man’s footsteps along and across the rocky ledges which thrust like islets through the sea of moss.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">Though alone,</span>
   <span id="f000129">he was not lost.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Farther on he knew he would come to where dead spruce and fir,</span>
   <span id="f000131">very small and weazened,</span>
   <span id="f000132">bordered the shore of a little lake,</span>
   <span id="f000133">the <em>titchin-nichilie</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000134">in the tongue of the country,</span>
   <span id="f000135">the “land of little sticks.” And into that lake flowed a small stream,</span>
   <span id="f000136">the water of which was not milky.</span>
   <span id="f000137">There was rush-grass on that stream – this he remembered well – but no timber,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and he would follow it till its first trickle ceased at a divide.</span>
   <span id="f000139">He would cross this divide to the first trickle of another stream,</span>
   <span id="f000140">flowing to the west,</span>
   <span id="f000141">which he would follow until it emptied into the river Dease,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and here he would find a cache under an upturned canoe and piled over with many rocks.</span>
   <span id="f000143">And in this cache would be ammunition for his empty gun,</span>
   <span id="f000144">fish-hooks and lines,</span>
   <span id="f000145">a small net – all the utilities for the killing and snaring of food.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000147">he would find flour,</span>
   <span id="f000148">– not much,</span>
   <span id="f000149">– a piece of bacon,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and some beans.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">Bill would be waiting for him there,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and they would paddle away south down the Dease to the Great Bear Lake.</span>
   <span id="f000153">And south across the lake they would go,</span>
   <span id="f000154">ever south,</span>
   <span id="f000155">till they gained the Mackenzie.</span>
   <span id="f000156">And south,</span>
   <span id="f000157">still south,</span>
   <span id="f000158">they would go,</span>
   <span id="f000159">while the winter raced vainly after them,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and the ice formed in the eddies,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and the days grew chill and crisp,</span>
   <span id="f000162">south to some warm Hudson Bay Company post,</span>
   <span id="f000163">where timber grew tall and generous and there was grub without end.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">These were the thoughts of the man as he strove onward.</span>
   <span id="f000165">But hard as he strove with his body,</span>
   <span id="f000166">he strove equally hard with his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000167">trying to think that Bill had not deserted him,</span>
   <span id="f000168">that Bill would surely wait for him at the cache.</span>
   <span id="f000169">He was compelled to think this thought,</span>
   <span id="f000170">or else there would not be any use to strive,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and he would have lain down and died.</span>
   <span id="f000172">And as the dim ball of the sun sank slowly into the northwest he covered every inch – and many times – of his and Bill’s flight south before the downcoming winter.</span>
   <span id="f000173">And he conned the grub of the cache and the grub of the Hudson Bay Company post over and over again.</span>
   <span id="f000174">He had not eaten for two days;</span>
   <span id="f000175">for a far longer time he had not had all he wanted to eat.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Often he stooped and picked pale muskeg berries,</span>
   <span id="f000177">put them into his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and chewed and swallowed them.</span>
   <span id="f000179">A muskeg berry is a bit of seed enclosed in a bit of water.</span>
   <span id="f000180">In the mouth the water melts away and the seed chews sharp and bitter.</span>
   <span id="f000181">The man knew there was no nourishment in the berries,</span>
   <span id="f000182">but he chewed them patiently with a hope greater than knowledge and defying experience.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">At nine o’clock he stubbed his toe on a rocky ledge,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and from sheer weariness and weakness staggered and fell.</span>
   <span id="f000185">He lay for some time,</span>
   <span id="f000186">without movement,</span>
   <span id="f000187">on his side.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Then he slipped out of the pack-straps and clumsily dragged himself into a sitting posture.</span>
   <span id="f000189">It was not yet dark,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and in the lingering twilight he groped about among the rocks for shreds of dry moss.</span>
   <span id="f000191">When he had gathered a heap he built a fire,</span>
   <span id="f000192">– a smouldering,</span>
   <span id="f000193">smudgy fire,</span>
   <span id="f000194">– and put a tin pot of water on to boil.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">He unwrapped his pack and the first thing he did was to count his matches.</span>
   <span id="f000196">There were sixty-seven.</span>
   <span id="f000197">He counted them three times to make sure.</span>
   <span id="f000198">He divided them into several portions,</span>
   <span id="f000199">wrapping them in oil paper,</span>
   <span id="f000200">disposing of one bunch in his empty tobacco pouch,</span>
   <span id="f000201">of another bunch in the inside band of his battered hat,</span>
   <span id="f000202">of a third bunch under his shirt on the chest.</span>
   <span id="f000203">This accomplished,</span>
   <span id="f000204">a panic came upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and he unwrapped them all and counted them again.</span>
   <span id="f000206">There were still sixty-seven.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">He dried his wet foot-gear by the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000208">The moccasins were in soggy shreds.</span>
   <span id="f000209">The blanket socks were worn through in places,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and his feet were raw and bleeding.</span>
   <span id="f000211">His ankle was throbbing,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and he gave it an examination.</span>
   <span id="f000213">It had swollen to the size of his knee.</span>
   <span id="f000214">He tore a long strip from one of his two blankets and bound the ankle tightly.</span>
   <span id="f000215">He tore other strips and bound them about his feet to serve for both moccasins and socks.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Then he drank the pot of water,</span>
   <span id="f000217">steaming hot,</span>
   <span id="f000218">wound his watch,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and crawled between his blankets.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">He slept like a dead man.</span>
   <span id="f000221">The brief darkness around midnight came and went.</span>
   <span id="f000222">The sun arose in the northeast – at least the day dawned in that quarter,</span>
   <span id="f000223">for the sun was hidden by gray clouds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">At six o’clock he awoke,</span>
   <span id="f000225">quietly lying on his back.</span>
   <span id="f000226">He gazed straight up into the gray sky and knew that he was hungry.</span>
   <span id="f000227">As he rolled over on his elbow he was startled by a loud snort,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and saw a bull caribou regarding him with alert curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000229">The animal was not mere than fifty feet away,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and instantly into the man’s mind leaped the vision and the savor of a caribou steak sizzling and frying over a fire.</span>
   <span id="f000231">Mechanically he reached for the empty gun,</span>
   <span id="f000232">drew a bead,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and pulled the trigger.</span>
   <span id="f000234">The bull snorted and leaped away,</span>
   <span id="f000235">his hoofs rattling and clattering as he fled across the ledges.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">The man cursed and flung the empty gun from him.</span>
   <span id="f000237">He groaned aloud as he started to drag himself to his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000238">It was a slow and arduous task.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">His joints were like rusty hinges.</span>
   <span id="f000240">They worked harshly in their sockets,</span>
   <span id="f000241">with much friction,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and each bending or unbending was accomplished only through a sheer exertion of will.</span>
   <span id="f000243">When he finally gained his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000244">another minute or so was consumed in straightening up,</span>
   <span id="f000245">so that he could stand erect as a man should stand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">He crawled up a small knoll and surveyed the prospect.</span>
   <span id="f000247">There were no trees,</span>
   <span id="f000248">no bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000249">nothing but a gray sea of moss scarcely diversified by gray rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000250">gray lakelets,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and gray streamlets.</span>
   <span id="f000252">The sky was gray.</span>
   <span id="f000253">There was no sun nor hint of sun.</span>
   <span id="f000254">He had no idea of north,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and he had forgotten the way he had come to this spot the night before.</span>
   <span id="f000256">But he was not lost.</span>
   <span id="f000257">He knew that.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Soon he would come to the land of the little sticks.</span>
   <span id="f000259">He felt that it lay off to the left somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000260">not far – possibly just over the next low hill.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">He went back to put his pack into shape for travelling.</span>
   <span id="f000262">He assured himself of the existence of his three separate parcels of matches,</span>
   <span id="f000263">though he did not stop to count them.</span>
   <span id="f000264">But he did linger,</span>
   <span id="f000265">debating,</span>
   <span id="f000266">over a squat moose-hide sack.</span>
   <span id="f000267">It was not large.</span>
   <span id="f000268">He could hide it under his two hands.</span>
   <span id="f000269">He knew that it weighed fifteen pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000270">– as much as all the rest of the pack,</span>
   <span id="f000271">– and it worried him.</span>
   <span id="f000272">He finally set it to one side and proceeded to roll the pack.</span>
   <span id="f000273">He paused to gaze at the squat moose-hide sack.</span>
   <span id="f000274">He picked it up hastily with a defiant glance about him,</span>
   <span id="f000275">as though the desolation were trying to rob him of it;</span>
   <span id="f000276">and when he rose to his feet to stagger on into the day,</span>
   <span id="f000277">it was included in the pack on his back.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">He bore away to the left,</span>
   <span id="f000279">stopping now and again to eat muskeg berries.</span>
   <span id="f000280">His ankle had stiffened,</span>
   <span id="f000281">his limp was more pronounced,</span>
   <span id="f000282">but the pain of it was as nothing compared with the pain of his stomach.</span>
   <span id="f000283">The hunger pangs were sharp.</span>
   <span id="f000284">They gnawed and gnawed until he could not keep his mind steady on the course he must pursue to gain the land of little sticks.</span>
   <span id="f000285">The muskeg berries did not allay this gnawing,</span>
   <span id="f000286">while they made his tongue and the roof of his mouth sore with their irritating bite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">He came upon a valley where rock ptarmigan rose on whirring wings from the ledges and muskegs.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Ker – ker – ker was the cry they made.</span>
   <span id="f000289">He threw stones at them,</span>
   <span id="f000290">but could not hit them.</span>
   <span id="f000291">He placed his pack on the ground and stalked them as a cat stalks a sparrow.</span>
   <span id="f000292">The sharp rocks cut through his pants’ legs till his knees left a trail of blood;</span>
   <span id="f000293">but the hurt was lost in the hurt of his hunger.</span>
   <span id="f000294">He squirmed over the wet moss,</span>
   <span id="f000295">saturating his clothes and chilling his body;</span>
   <span id="f000296">but he was not aware of it,</span>
   <span id="f000297">so great was his fever for food.</span>
   <span id="f000298">And always the ptarmigan rose,</span>
   <span id="f000299">whirring,</span>
   <span id="f000300">before him,</span>
   <span id="f000301">till their ker – ker – ker became a mock to him,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and he cursed them and cried aloud at them with their own cry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">Once he crawled upon one that must have been asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000304">He did not see it till it shot up in his face from its rocky nook.</span>
   <span id="f000305">He made a clutch as startled as was the rise of the ptarmigan,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and there remained in his hand three tail-feathers.</span>
   <span id="f000307">As he watched its flight he hated it,</span>
   <span id="f000308">as though it had done him some terrible wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Then he returned and shouldered his pack.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">As the day wore along he came into valleys or swales where game was more plentiful.</span>
   <span id="f000311">A band of caribou passed by,</span>
   <span id="f000312">twenty and odd animals,</span>
   <span id="f000313">tantalizingly within rifle range.</span>
   <span id="f000314">He felt a wild desire to run after them,</span>
   <span id="f000315">a certitude that he could run them down.</span>
   <span id="f000316">A black fox came toward him,</span>
   <span id="f000317">carrying a ptarmigan in his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000318">The man shouted.</span>
   <span id="f000319">It was a fearful cry,</span>
   <span id="f000320">but the fox,</span>
   <span id="f000321">leaping away in fright,</span>
   <span id="f000322">did not drop the ptarmigan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">Late in the afternoon he followed a stream,</span>
   <span id="f000324">milky with lime,</span>
   <span id="f000325">which ran through sparse patches of rush-grass.</span>
   <span id="f000326">Grasping these rushes firmly near the root,</span>
   <span id="f000327">he pulled up what resembled a young onion-sprout no larger than a shingle-nail.</span>
   <span id="f000328">It was tender,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and his teeth sank into it with a crunch that promised deliciously of food.</span>
   <span id="f000330">But its fibers were tough.</span>
   <span id="f000331">It was composed of stringy filaments saturated with water,</span>
   <span id="f000332">like the berries,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and devoid of nourishment.</span>
   <span id="f000334">He threw off his pack and went into the rush-grass on hands and knees,</span>
   <span id="f000335">crunching and munching,</span>
   <span id="f000336">like some bovine creature.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">He was very weary and often wished to rest – to lie down and sleep;</span>
   <span id="f000338">but he was continually driven on – not so much by his desire to gain the land of little sticks as by his hunger.</span>
   <span id="f000339">He searched little ponds for frogs and dug up the earth with his nails for worms,</span>
   <span id="f000340">though he knew in spite that neither frogs nor worms existed so far north.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">He looked into every pool of water vainly,</span>
   <span id="f000342">until,</span>
   <span id="f000343">as the long twilight came on,</span>
   <span id="f000344">he discovered a solitary fish,</span>
   <span id="f000345">the size of a minnow,</span>
   <span id="f000346">in such a pool.</span>
   <span id="f000347">He plunged his arm in up to the shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000348">but it eluded him.</span>
   <span id="f000349">He reached for it with both hands and stirred up the milky mud at the bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000350">In his excitement he fell in,</span>
   <span id="f000351">wetting himself to the waist.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Then the water was too muddy to admit of his seeing the fish,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and he was compelled to wait until the sediment had settled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">The pursuit was renewed,</span>
   <span id="f000355">till the water was again muddied.</span>
   <span id="f000356">But he could not wait.</span>
   <span id="f000357">He unstrapped the tin bucket and began to bale the pool.</span>
   <span id="f000358">He baled wildly at first,</span>
   <span id="f000359">splashing himself and flinging the water so short a distance that it ran back into the pool.</span>
   <span id="f000360">He worked more carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000361">striving to be cool,</span>
   <span id="f000362">though his heart was pounding against his chest and his hands were trembling.</span>
   <span id="f000363">At the end of half an hour the pool was nearly dry.</span>
   <span id="f000364">Not a cupful of water remained.</span>
   <span id="f000365">And there was no fish.</span>
   <span id="f000366">He found a hidden crevice among the stones through which it had escaped to the adjoining and larger pool – a pool which he could not empty in a night and a day.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Had he known of the crevice,</span>
   <span id="f000368">he could have closed it with a rock at the beginning and the fish would have been his.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">Thus he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and crumpled up and sank down upon the wet earth.</span>
   <span id="f000371">At first he cried softly to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000372">then he cried loudly to the pitiless desolation that ringed him around;</span>
   <span id="f000373">and for a long time after he was shaken by great dry sobs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">He built a fire and warmed himself by drinking quarts of hot water,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and made camp on a rocky ledge in the same fashion he had the night before.</span>
   <span id="f000376">The last thing he did was to see that his matches were dry and to wind his watch.</span>
   <span id="f000377">The blankets were wet and clammy.</span>
   <span id="f000378">His ankle pulsed with pain.</span>
   <span id="f000379">But he knew only that he was hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and through his restless sleep he dreamed of feasts and banquets and of food served and spread in all imaginable ways.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">He awoke chilled and sick.</span>
   <span id="f000382">There was no sun.</span>
   <span id="f000383">The gray of earth and sky had become deeper,</span>
   <span id="f000384">more profound.</span>
   <span id="f000385">A raw wind was blowing,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and the first flurries of snow were whitening the hilltops.</span>
   <span id="f000387">The air about him thickened and grew white while he made a fire and boiled more water.</span>
   <span id="f000388">It was wet snow,</span>
   <span id="f000389">half rain,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and the flakes were large and soggy.</span>
   <span id="f000391">At first they melted as soon as they came in contact with the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000392">but ever more fell,</span>
   <span id="f000393">covering the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000394">putting out the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000395">spoiling his supply of moss-fuel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">This was a signal for him to strap on his pack and stumble onward,</span>
   <span id="f000397">he knew not where.</span>
   <span id="f000398">He was not concerned with the land of little sticks,</span>
   <span id="f000399">nor with Bill and the cache under the upturned canoe by the river Dease.</span>
   <span id="f000400">He was mastered by the verb “to eat.” He was hunger-mad.</span>
   <span id="f000401">He took no heed of the course he pursued,</span>
   <span id="f000402">so long as that course led him through the swale bottoms.</span>
   <span id="f000403">He felt his way through the wet snow to the watery muskeg berries,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and went by feel as he pulled up the rush-grass by the roots.</span>
   <span id="f000405">But it was tasteless stuff and did not satisfy.</span>
   <span id="f000406">He found a weed that tasted sour and he ate all he could find of it,</span>
   <span id="f000407">which was not much,</span>
   <span id="f000408">for it was a creeping growth,</span>
   <span id="f000409">easily hidden under the several inches of snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">He had no fire that night,</span>
   <span id="f000411">nor hot water,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and crawled under his blanket to sleep the broken hunger-sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000413">The snow turned into a cold rain.</span>
   <span id="f000414">He awakened many times to feel it falling on his upturned face.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Day came – a gray day and no sun.</span>
   <span id="f000416">It had ceased raining.</span>
   <span id="f000417">The keenness of his hunger had departed.</span>
   <span id="f000418">Sensibility,</span>
   <span id="f000419">as far as concerned the yearning for food,</span>
   <span id="f000420">had been exhausted.</span>
   <span id="f000421">There was a dull,</span>
   <span id="f000422">heavy ache in his stomach,</span>
   <span id="f000423">but it did not bother him so much.</span>
   <span id="f000424">He was more rational,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and once more he was chiefly interested in the land of little sticks and the cache by the river Dease.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">He ripped the remnant of one of his blankets into strips and bound his bleeding feet.</span>
   <span id="f000427">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000428">he recinched the injured ankle and prepared himself for a day of travel.</span>
   <span id="f000429">When he came to his pack,</span>
   <span id="f000430">he paused long over the squat moose-hide sack,</span>
   <span id="f000431">but in the end it went with him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">The snow had melted under the rain,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and only the hilltops showed white.</span>
   <span id="f000434">The sun came out,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and he succeeded in locating the points of the compass,</span>
   <span id="f000436">though he knew now that he was lost.</span>
   <span id="f000437">Perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000438">in his previous days’ wanderings,</span>
   <span id="f000439">he had edged away too far to the left.</span>
   <span id="f000440">He now bore off to the right to counteract the possible deviation from his true course.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">Though the hunger pangs were no longer so exquisite,</span>
   <span id="f000442">he realized that he was weak.</span>
   <span id="f000443">He was compelled to pause for frequent rests,</span>
   <span id="f000444">when he attacked the muskeg berries and rush-grass patches.</span>
   <span id="f000445">His tongue felt dry and large,</span>
   <span id="f000446">as though covered with a fine hairy growth,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and it tasted bitter in his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000448">His heart gave him a great deal of trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000449">When he had travelled a few minutes it would begin a remorseless thump,</span>
   <span id="f000450">thump,</span>
   <span id="f000451">thump,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and then leap up and away in a painful flutter of beats that choked him and made him go faint and dizzy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">In the middle of the day he found two minnows in a large pool.</span>
   <span id="f000454">It was impossible to bale it,</span>
   <span id="f000455">but he was calmer now and managed to catch them in his tin bucket.</span>
   <span id="f000456">They were no longer than his little finger,</span>
   <span id="f000457">but he was not particularly hungry.</span>
   <span id="f000458">The dull ache in his stomach had been growing duller and fainter.</span>
   <span id="f000459">It seemed almost that his stomach was dozing.</span>
   <span id="f000460">He ate the fish raw,</span>
   <span id="f000461">masticating with painstaking care,</span>
   <span id="f000462">for the eating was an act of pure reason.</span>
   <span id="f000463">While he had no desire to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000464">he knew that he must eat to live.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">In the evening he caught three more minnows,</span>
   <span id="f000466">eating two and saving the third for breakfast.</span>
   <span id="f000467">The sun had dried stray shreds of moss,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and he was able to warm himself with hot water.</span>
   <span id="f000469">He had not covered more than ten miles that day;</span>
   <span id="f000470">and the next day,</span>
   <span id="f000471">travelling whenever his heart permitted him,</span>
   <span id="f000472">he covered no more than five miles.</span>
   <span id="f000473">But his stomach did not give him the slightest uneasiness.</span>
   <span id="f000474">It had gone to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000475">He was in a strange country,</span>
   <span id="f000476">too,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and the caribou were growing more plentiful,</span>
   <span id="f000478">also the wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000479">Often their yelps drifted across the desolation,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and once he saw three of them slinking away before his path.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">Another night;</span>
   <span id="f000482">and in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000483">being more rational,</span>
   <span id="f000484">he untied the leather string that fastened the squat moose-hide sack.</span>
   <span id="f000485">From its open mouth poured a yellow stream of coarse gold-dust and nuggets.</span>
   <span id="f000486">He roughly divided the gold in halves,</span>
   <span id="f000487">caching one half on a prominent ledge,</span>
   <span id="f000488">wrapped in a piece of blanket,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and returning the other half to the sack.</span>
   <span id="f000490">He also began to use strips of the one remaining blanket for his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000491">He still clung to his gun,</span>
   <span id="f000492">for there were cartridges in that cache by the river Dease.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000493">This was a day of fog,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and this day hunger awoke in him again.</span>
   <span id="f000495">He was very weak and was afflicted with a giddiness which at times blinded him.</span>
   <span id="f000496">It was no uncommon thing now for him to stumble and fall;</span>
   <span id="f000497">and stumbling once,</span>
   <span id="f000498">he fell squarely into a ptarmigan nest.</span>
   <span id="f000499">There were four newly hatched chicks,</span>
   <span id="f000500">a day old – little specks of pulsating life no more than a mouthful;</span>
   <span id="f000501">and he ate them ravenously,</span>
   <span id="f000502">thrusting them alive into his mouth and crunching them like egg-shells between his teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000503">The mother ptarmigan beat about him with great outcry.</span>
   <span id="f000504">He used his gun as a club with which to knock her over,</span>
   <span id="f000505">but she dodged out of reach.</span>
   <span id="f000506">He threw stones at her and with one chance shot broke a wing.</span>
   <span id="f000507">Then she fluttered away,</span>
   <span id="f000508">running,</span>
   <span id="f000509">trailing the broken wing,</span>
   <span id="f000510">with him in pursuit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">The little chicks had no more than whetted his appetite.</span>
   <span id="f000512">He hopped and bobbed clumsily along on his injured ankle,</span>
   <span id="f000513">throwing stones and screaming hoarsely at times;</span>
   <span id="f000514">at other times hopping and bobbing silently along,</span>
   <span id="f000515">picking himself up grimly and patiently when he fell,</span>
   <span id="f000516">or rubbing his eyes with his hand when the giddiness threatened to overpower him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">The chase led him across swampy ground in the bottom of the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000518">and he came upon footprints in the soggy moss.</span>
   <span id="f000519">They were not his own – he could see that.</span>
   <span id="f000520">They must be Bill’s.</span>
   <span id="f000521">But he could not stop,</span>
   <span id="f000522">for the mother ptarmigan was running on.</span>
   <span id="f000523">He would catch her first,</span>
   <span id="f000524">then he would return and investigate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000525">He exhausted the mother ptarmigan;</span>
   <span id="f000526">but he exhausted himself.</span>
   <span id="f000527">She lay panting on her side.</span>
   <span id="f000528">He lay panting on his side,</span>
   <span id="f000529">a dozen feet away,</span>
   <span id="f000530">unable to crawl to her.</span>
   <span id="f000531">And as he recovered she recovered,</span>
   <span id="f000532">fluttering out of reach as his hungry hand went out to her.</span>
   <span id="f000533">The chase was resumed.</span>
   <span id="f000534">Night settled down and she escaped.</span>
   <span id="f000535">He stumbled from weakness and pitched head foremost on his face,</span>
   <span id="f000536">cutting his cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000537">his pack upon his back.</span>
   <span id="f000538">He did not move for a long while;</span>
   <span id="f000539">then he rolled over on his side,</span>
   <span id="f000540">wound his watch,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and lay there until morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">Another day of fog.</span>
   <span id="f000543">Half of his last blanket had gone into foot-wrappings.</span>
   <span id="f000544">He failed to pick up Bill’s trail.</span>
   <span id="f000545">It did not matter.</span>
   <span id="f000546">His hunger was driving him too compellingly – only – only he wondered if Bill,</span>
   <span id="f000547">too,</span>
   <span id="f000548">were lost.</span>
   <span id="f000549">By midday the irk of his pack became too oppressive.</span>
   <span id="f000550">Again he divided the gold,</span>
   <span id="f000551">this time merely spilling half of it on the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000552">In the afternoon he threw the rest of it away,</span>
   <span id="f000553">there remaining to him only the half-blanket,</span>
   <span id="f000554">the tin bucket,</span>
   <span id="f000555">and the rifle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">An hallucination began to trouble him.</span>
   <span id="f000557">He felt confident that one cartridge remained to him.</span>
   <span id="f000558">It was in the chamber of the rifle and he had overlooked it.</span>
   <span id="f000559">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000560">he knew all the time that the chamber was empty.</span>
   <span id="f000561">But the hallucination persisted.</span>
   <span id="f000562">He fought it off for hours,</span>
   <span id="f000563">then threw his rifle open and was confronted with emptiness.</span>
   <span id="f000564">The disappointment was as bitter as though he had really expected to find the cartridge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">He plodded on for half an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000566">when the hallucination arose again.</span>
   <span id="f000567">Again he fought it,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and still it persisted,</span>
   <span id="f000569">till for very relief he opened his rifle to unconvince himself.</span>
   <span id="f000570">At times his mind wandered farther afield,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and he plodded on,</span>
   <span id="f000572">a mere automaton,</span>
   <span id="f000573">strange conceits and whimsicalities gnawing at his brain like worms.</span>
   <span id="f000574">But these excursions out of the real were of brief duration,</span>
   <span id="f000575">for ever the pangs of the hunger-bite called him back.</span>
   <span id="f000576">He was jerked back abruptly once from such an excursion by a sight that caused him nearly to faint.</span>
   <span id="f000577">He reeled and swayed,</span>
   <span id="f000578">doddering like a drunken man to keep from falling.</span>
   <span id="f000579">Before him stood a horse.</span>
   <span id="f000580">A horse!</span>
   <span id="f000581">He could not believe his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000582">A thick mist was in them,</span>
   <span id="f000583">intershot with sparkling points of light.</span>
   <span id="f000584">He rubbed his eyes savagely to clear his vision,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and beheld,</span>
   <span id="f000586">not a horse,</span>
   <span id="f000587">but a great brown bear.</span>
   <span id="f000588">The animal was studying him with bellicose curiosity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">The man had brought his gun halfway to his shoulder before he realized.</span>
   <span id="f000590">He lowered it and drew his hunting-knife from its beaded sheath at his hip.</span>
   <span id="f000591">Before him was meat and life.</span>
   <span id="f000592">He ran his thumb along the edge of his knife.</span>
   <span id="f000593">It was sharp.</span>
   <span id="f000594">The point was sharp.</span>
   <span id="f000595">He would fling himself upon the bear and kill it.</span>
   <span id="f000596">But his heart began its warning thump,</span>
   <span id="f000597">thump,</span>
   <span id="f000598">thump.</span>
   <span id="f000599">Then followed the wild upward leap and tattoo of flutters,</span>
   <span id="f000600">the pressing as of an iron band about his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000601">the creeping of the dizziness into his brain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000602">His desperate courage was evicted by a great surge of fear.</span>
   <span id="f000603">In his weakness,</span>
   <span id="f000604">what if the animal attacked him?</span>
   <span id="f000605">He drew himself up to his most imposing stature,</span>
   <span id="f000606">gripping the knife and staring hard at the bear.</span>
   <span id="f000607">The bear advanced clumsily a couple of steps,</span>
   <span id="f000608">reared up,</span>
   <span id="f000609">and gave vent to a tentative growl.</span>
   <span id="f000610">If the man ran,</span>
   <span id="f000611">he would run after him;</span>
   <span id="f000612">but the man did not run.</span>
   <span id="f000613">He was animated now with the courage of fear.</span>
   <span id="f000614">He,</span>
   <span id="f000615">too,</span>
   <span id="f000616">growled,</span>
   <span id="f000617">savagely,</span>
   <span id="f000618">terribly,</span>
   <span id="f000619">voicing the fear that is to life germane and that lies twisted about life’s deepest roots.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">The bear edged away to one side,</span>
   <span id="f000621">growling menacingly,</span>
   <span id="f000622">himself appalled by this mysterious creature that appeared upright and unafraid.</span>
   <span id="f000623">But the man did not move.</span>
   <span id="f000624">He stood like a statue till the danger was past,</span>
   <span id="f000625">when he yielded to a fit of trembling and sank down into the wet moss.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">He pulled himself together and went on,</span>
   <span id="f000627">afraid now in a new way.</span>
   <span id="f000628">It was not the fear that he should die passively from lack of food,</span>
   <span id="f000629">but that he should be destroyed violently before starvation had exhausted the last particle of the endeavor in him that made toward surviving.</span>
   <span id="f000630">There were the wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000631">Back and forth across the desolation drifted their howls,</span>
   <span id="f000632">weaving the very air into a fabric of menace that was so tangible that he found himself,</span>
   <span id="f000633">arms in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000634">pressing it back from him as it might be the walls of a wind-blown tent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">Now and again the wolves,</span>
   <span id="f000636">in packs of two and three,</span>
   <span id="f000637">crossed his path.</span>
   <span id="f000638">But they sheered clear of him.</span>
   <span id="f000639">They were not in sufficient numbers,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and besides they were hunting the caribou,</span>
   <span id="f000641">which did not battle,</span>
   <span id="f000642">while this strange creature that walked erect might scratch and bite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">In the late afternoon he came upon scattered bones where the wolves had made a kill.</span>
   <span id="f000644">The debris had been a caribou calf an hour before,</span>
   <span id="f000645">squawking and running and very much alive.</span>
   <span id="f000646">He contemplated the bones,</span>
   <span id="f000647">clean-picked and polished,</span>
   <span id="f000648">pink with the cell-life in them which had not yet died.</span>
   <span id="f000649">Could it possibly be that he might be that ere the day was done!</span>
   <span id="f000650">Such was life,</span>
   <span id="f000651">eh?</span>
   <span id="f000652">A vain and fleeting thing.</span>
   <span id="f000653">It was only life that pained.</span>
   <span id="f000654">There was no hurt in death.</span>
   <span id="f000655">To die was to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000656">It meant cessation,</span>
   <span id="f000657">rest.</span>
   <span id="f000658">Then why was he not content to die?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">But he did not moralize long.</span>
   <span id="f000660">He was squatting in the moss,</span>
   <span id="f000661">a bone in his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000662">sucking at the shreds of life that still dyed it faintly pink.</span>
   <span id="f000663">The sweet meaty taste,</span>
   <span id="f000664">thin and elusive almost as a memory,</span>
   <span id="f000665">maddened him.</span>
   <span id="f000666">He closed his jaws on the bones and crunched.</span>
   <span id="f000667">Sometimes it was the bone that broke,</span>
   <span id="f000668">sometimes his teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000669">Then he crushed the bones between rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000670">pounded them to a pulp,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and swallowed them.</span>
   <span id="f000672">He pounded his fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000673">too,</span>
   <span id="f000674">in his haste,</span>
   <span id="f000675">and yet found a moment in which to feel surprise at the fact that his fingers did not hurt much when caught under the descending rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">Came frightful days of snow and rain.</span>
   <span id="f000677">He did not know when he made camp,</span>
   <span id="f000678">when he broke camp.</span>
   <span id="f000679">He travelled in the night as much as in the day.</span>
   <span id="f000680">He rested wherever he fell,</span>
   <span id="f000681">crawled on whenever the dying life in him flickered up and burned less dimly.</span>
   <span id="f000682">He,</span>
   <span id="f000683">as a man,</span>
   <span id="f000684">no longer strove.</span>
   <span id="f000685">It was the life in him,</span>
   <span id="f000686">unwilling to die,</span>
   <span id="f000687">that drove him on.</span>
   <span id="f000688">He did not suffer.</span>
   <span id="f000689">His nerves had become blunted,</span>
   <span id="f000690">numb,</span>
   <span id="f000691">while his mind was filled with weird visions and delicious dreams.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">But ever he sucked and chewed on the crushed bones of the caribou calf,</span>
   <span id="f000693">the least remnants of which he had gathered up and carried with him.</span>
   <span id="f000694">He crossed no more hills or divides,</span>
   <span id="f000695">but automatically followed a large stream which flowed through a wide and shallow valley.</span>
   <span id="f000696">He did not see this stream nor this valley.</span>
   <span id="f000697">He saw nothing save visions.</span>
   <span id="f000698">Soul and body walked or crawled side by side,</span>
   <span id="f000699">yet apart,</span>
   <span id="f000700">so slender was the thread that bound them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">He awoke in his right mind,</span>
   <span id="f000702">lying on his back on a rocky ledge.</span>
   <span id="f000703">The sun was shining bright and warm.</span>
   <span id="f000704">Afar off he heard the squawking of caribou calves.</span>
   <span id="f000705">He was aware of vague memories of rain and wind and snow,</span>
   <span id="f000706">but whether he had been beaten by the storm for two days or two weeks he did not know.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">For some time he lay without movement,</span>
   <span id="f000708">the genial sunshine pouring upon him and saturating his miserable body with its warmth.</span>
   <span id="f000709">A fine day,</span>
   <span id="f000710">he thought.</span>
   <span id="f000711">Perhaps he could manage to locate himself.</span>
   <span id="f000712">By a painful effort he rolled over on his side.</span>
   <span id="f000713">Below him flowed a wide and sluggish river.</span>
   <span id="f000714">Its unfamiliarity puzzled him.</span>
   <span id="f000715">Slowly he followed it with his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000716">winding in wide sweeps among the bleak,</span>
   <span id="f000717">bare hills,</span>
   <span id="f000718">bleaker and barer and lower-lying than any hills he had yet encountered.</span>
   <span id="f000719">Slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000720">deliberately,</span>
   <span id="f000721">without excitement or more than the most casual interest,</span>
   <span id="f000722">he followed the course of the strange stream toward the sky-line and saw it emptying into a bright and shining sea.</span>
   <span id="f000723">He was still unexcited.</span>
   <span id="f000724">Most unusual,</span>
   <span id="f000725">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000726">a vision or a mirage – more likely a vision,</span>
   <span id="f000727">a trick of his disordered mind.</span>
   <span id="f000728">He was confirmed in this by sight of a ship lying at anchor in the midst of the shining sea.</span>
   <span id="f000729">He closed his eyes for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000730">then opened them.</span>
   <span id="f000731">Strange how the vision persisted!</span>
   <span id="f000732">Yet not strange.</span>
   <span id="f000733">He knew there were no seas or ships in the heart of the barren lands,</span>
   <span id="f000734">just as he had known there was no cartridge in the empty rifle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">He heard a snuffle behind him – a half-choking gasp or cough.</span>
   <span id="f000736">Very slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000737">because of his exceeding weakness and stiffness,</span>
   <span id="f000738">he rolled over on his other side.</span>
   <span id="f000739">He could see nothing near at hand,</span>
   <span id="f000740">but he waited patiently.</span>
   <span id="f000741">Again came the snuffle and cough,</span>
   <span id="f000742">and outlined between two jagged rocks not a score of feet away he made out the gray head of a wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000743">The sharp ears were not pricked so sharply as he had seen them on other wolves;</span>
   <span id="f000744">the eyes were bleared and bloodshot,</span>
   <span id="f000745">the head seemed to droop limply and forlornly.</span>
   <span id="f000746">The animal blinked continually in the sunshine.</span>
   <span id="f000747">It seemed sick.</span>
   <span id="f000748">As he looked it snuffled and coughed again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">This,</span>
   <span id="f000750">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000751">was real,</span>
   <span id="f000752">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000753">and turned on the other side so that he might see the reality of the world which had been veiled from him before by the vision.</span>
   <span id="f000754">But the sea still shone in the distance and the ship was plainly discernible.</span>
   <span id="f000755">Was it reality,</span>
   <span id="f000756">after all?</span>
   <span id="f000757">He closed his eyes for a long while and thought,</span>
   <span id="f000758">and then it came to him.</span>
   <span id="f000759">He had been making north by east,</span>
   <span id="f000760">away from the Dease Divide and into the Coppermine Valley.</span>
   <span id="f000761">This wide and sluggish river was the Coppermine.</span>
   <span id="f000762">That shining sea was the Arctic Ocean.</span>
   <span id="f000763">That ship was a whaler,</span>
   <span id="f000764">strayed east,</span>
   <span id="f000765">far east,</span>
   <span id="f000766">from the mouth of the Mackenzie,</span>
   <span id="f000767">and it was lying at anchor in Coronation Gulf.</span>
   <span id="f000768">He remembered the Hudson Bay Company chart he had seen long ago,</span>
   <span id="f000769">and it was all clear and reasonable to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000770">He sat up and turned his attention to immediate affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000771">He had worn through the blanket-wrappings,</span>
   <span id="f000772">and his feet were shapeless lumps of raw meat.</span>
   <span id="f000773">His last blanket was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000774">Rifle and knife were both missing.</span>
   <span id="f000775">He had lost his hat somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000776">with the bunch of matches in the band,</span>
   <span id="f000777">but the matches against his chest were safe and dry inside the tobacco pouch and oil paper.</span>
   <span id="f000778">He looked at his watch.</span>
   <span id="f000779">It marked eleven o’clock and was still running.</span>
   <span id="f000780">Evidently he had kept it wound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000781">He was calm and collected.</span>
   <span id="f000782">Though extremely weak,</span>
   <span id="f000783">he had no sensation of pain.</span>
   <span id="f000784">He was not hungry.</span>
   <span id="f000785">The thought of food was not even pleasant to him,</span>
   <span id="f000786">and whatever he did was done by his reason alone.</span>
   <span id="f000787">He ripped off his pants’ legs to the knees and bound them about his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000788">Somehow he had succeeded in retaining the tin bucket.</span>
   <span id="f000789">He would have some hot water before he began what he foresaw was to be a terrible journey to the ship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000790">His movements were slow.</span>
   <span id="f000791">He shook as with a palsy.</span>
   <span id="f000792">When he started to collect dry moss,</span>
   <span id="f000793">he found he could not rise to his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000794">He tried again and again,</span>
   <span id="f000795">then contented himself with crawling about on hands and knees.</span>
   <span id="f000796">Once he crawled near to the sick wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000797">The animal dragged itself reluctantly out of his way,</span>
   <span id="f000798">licking its chops with a tongue which seemed hardly to have the strength to curl.</span>
   <span id="f000799">The man noticed that the tongue was not the customary healthy red.</span>
   <span id="f000800">It was a yellowish brown and seemed coated with a rough and half-dry mucus.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000801">After he had drunk a quart of hot water the man found he was able to stand,</span>
   <span id="f000802">and even to walk as well as a dying man might be supposed to walk.</span>
   <span id="f000803">Every minute or so he was compelled to rest.</span>
   <span id="f000804">His steps were feeble and uncertain,</span>
   <span id="f000805">just as the wolf’s that trailed him were feeble and uncertain;</span>
   <span id="f000806">and that night,</span>
   <span id="f000807">when the shining sea was blotted out by blackness,</span>
   <span id="f000808">he knew he was nearer to it by no more than four miles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">Throughout the night he heard the cough of the sick wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000810">and now and then the squawking of the caribou calves.</span>
   <span id="f000811">There was life all around him,</span>
   <span id="f000812">but it was strong life,</span>
   <span id="f000813">very much alive and well,</span>
   <span id="f000814">and he knew the sick wolf clung to the sick man’s trail in the hope that the man would die first.</span>
   <span id="f000815">In the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000816">on opening his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000817">he beheld it regarding him with a wistful and hungry stare.</span>
   <span id="f000818">It stood crouched,</span>
   <span id="f000819">with tail between its legs,</span>
   <span id="f000820">like a miserable and woe-begone dog.</span>
   <span id="f000821">It shivered in the chill morning wind,</span>
   <span id="f000822">and grinned dispiritedly when the man spoke to it in a voice that achieved no more than a hoarse whisper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000823">The sun rose brightly,</span>
   <span id="f000824">and all morning the man tottered and fell toward the ship on the shining sea.</span>
   <span id="f000825">The weather was perfect.</span>
   <span id="f000826">It was the brief Indian Summer of the high latitudes.</span>
   <span id="f000827">It might last a week.</span>
   <span id="f000828">To-morrow or next day it might he gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">In the afternoon the man came upon a trail.</span>
   <span id="f000830">It was of another man,</span>
   <span id="f000831">who did not walk,</span>
   <span id="f000832">but who dragged himself on all fours.</span>
   <span id="f000833">The man thought it might be Bill,</span>
   <span id="f000834">but he thought in a dull,</span>
   <span id="f000835">uninterested way.</span>
   <span id="f000836">He had no curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000837">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000838">sensation and emotion had left him.</span>
   <span id="f000839">He was no longer susceptible to pain.</span>
   <span id="f000840">Stomach and nerves had gone to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000841">Yet the life that was in him drove him on.</span>
   <span id="f000842">He was very weary,</span>
   <span id="f000843">but it refused to die.</span>
   <span id="f000844">It was because it refused to die that he still ate muskeg berries and minnows,</span>
   <span id="f000845">drank his hot water,</span>
   <span id="f000846">and kept a wary eye on the sick wolf.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000847">He followed the trail of the other man who dragged himself along,</span>
   <span id="f000848">and soon came to the end of it – a few fresh-picked bones where the soggy moss was marked by the foot-pads of many wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000849">He saw a squat moose-hide sack,</span>
   <span id="f000850">mate to his own,</span>
   <span id="f000851">which had been torn by sharp teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000852">He picked it up,</span>
   <span id="f000853">though its weight was almost too much for his feeble fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000854">Bill had carried it to the last.</span>
   <span id="f000855">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000856">ha!</span>
   <span id="f000857">He would have the laugh on Bill.</span>
   <span id="f000858">He would survive and carry it to the ship in the shining sea.</span>
   <span id="f000859">His mirth was hoarse and ghastly,</span>
   <span id="f000860">like a raven’s croak,</span>
   <span id="f000861">and the sick wolf joined him,</span>
   <span id="f000862">howling lugubriously.</span>
   <span id="f000863">The man ceased suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f000864">How could he have the laugh on Bill if that were Bill;</span>
   <span id="f000865">if those bones,</span>
   <span id="f000866">so pinky-white and clean,</span>
   <span id="f000867">were Bill?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000868">He turned away.</span>
   <span id="f000869">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000870">Bill had deserted him;</span>
   <span id="f000871">but he would not take the gold,</span>
   <span id="f000872">nor would he suck Bill’s bones.</span>
   <span id="f000873">Bill would have,</span>
   <span id="f000874">though,</span>
   <span id="f000875">had it been the other way around,</span>
   <span id="f000876">he mused as he staggered on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">He came to a pool of water.</span>
   <span id="f000878">Stooping over in quest of minnows,</span>
   <span id="f000879">he jerked his head back as though he had been stung.</span>
   <span id="f000880">He had caught sight of his reflected face.</span>
   <span id="f000881">So horrible was it that sensibility awoke long enough to be shocked.</span>
   <span id="f000882">There were three minnows in the pool,</span>
   <span id="f000883">which was too large to drain;</span>
   <span id="f000884">and after several ineffectual attempts to catch them in the tin bucket he forbore.</span>
   <span id="f000885">He was afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000886">because of his great weakness,</span>
   <span id="f000887">that he might fall in and drown.</span>
   <span id="f000888">It was for this reason that he did not trust himself to the river astride one of the many drift-logs which lined its sand-spits.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000889">That day he decreased the distance between him and the ship by three miles;</span>
   <span id="f000890">the next day by two – for he was crawling now as Bill had crawled;</span>
   <span id="f000891">and the end of the fifth day found the ship still seven miles away and him unable to make even a mile a day.</span>
   <span id="f000892">Still the Indian Summer held on,</span>
   <span id="f000893">and he continued to crawl and faint,</span>
   <span id="f000894">turn and turn about;</span>
   <span id="f000895">and ever the sick wolf coughed and wheezed at his heels.</span>
   <span id="f000896">His knees had become raw meat like his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000897">and though he padded them with the shirt from his back it was a red track he left behind him on the moss and stones.</span>
   <span id="f000898">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000899">glancing back,</span>
   <span id="f000900">he saw the wolf licking hungrily his bleeding trail,</span>
   <span id="f000901">and he saw sharply what his own end might be – unless – unless he could get the wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000902">Then began as grim a tragedy of existence as was ever played – a sick man that crawled,</span>
   <span id="f000903">a sick wolf that limped,</span>
   <span id="f000904">two creatures dragging their dying carcasses across the desolation and hunting each other’s lives.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">Had it been a well wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000906">it would not have mattered so much to the man;</span>
   <span id="f000907">but the thought of going to feed the maw of that loathsome and all but dead thing was repugnant to him.</span>
   <span id="f000908">He was finicky.</span>
   <span id="f000909">His mind had begun to wander again,</span>
   <span id="f000910">and to be perplexed by hallucinations,</span>
   <span id="f000911">while his lucid intervals grew rarer and shorter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000912">He was awakened once from a faint by a wheeze close in his ear.</span>
   <span id="f000913">The wolf leaped lamely back,</span>
   <span id="f000914">losing its footing and falling in its weakness.</span>
   <span id="f000915">It was ludicrous,</span>
   <span id="f000916">but he was not amused.</span>
   <span id="f000917">Nor was he even afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000918">He was too far gone for that.</span>
   <span id="f000919">But his mind was for the moment clear,</span>
   <span id="f000920">and he lay and considered.</span>
   <span id="f000921">The ship was no more than four miles away.</span>
   <span id="f000922">He could see it quite distinctly when he rubbed the mists out of his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000923">and he could see the white sail of a small boat cutting the water of the shining sea.</span>
   <span id="f000924">But he could never crawl those four miles.</span>
   <span id="f000925">He knew that,</span>
   <span id="f000926">and was very calm in the knowledge.</span>
   <span id="f000927">He knew that he could not crawl half a mile.</span>
   <span id="f000928">And yet he wanted to live.</span>
   <span id="f000929">It was unreasonable that he should die after all he had undergone.</span>
   <span id="f000930">Fate asked too much of him.</span>
   <span id="f000931">And,</span>
   <span id="f000932">dying,</span>
   <span id="f000933">he declined to die.</span>
   <span id="f000934">It was stark madness,</span>
   <span id="f000935">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000936">but in the very grip of Death he defied Death and refused to die.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">He closed his eyes and composed himself with infinite precaution.</span>
   <span id="f000938">He steeled himself to keep above the suffocating languor that lapped like a rising tide through all the wells of his being.</span>
   <span id="f000939">It was very like a sea,</span>
   <span id="f000940">this deadly languor,</span>
   <span id="f000941">that rose and rose and drowned his consciousness bit by bit.</span>
   <span id="f000942">Sometimes he was all but submerged,</span>
   <span id="f000943">swimming through oblivion with a faltering stroke;</span>
   <span id="f000944">and again,</span>
   <span id="f000945">by some strange alchemy of soul,</span>
   <span id="f000946">he would find another shred of will and strike out more strongly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000947">Without movement he lay on his back,</span>
   <span id="f000948">and he could hear,</span>
   <span id="f000949">slowly drawing near and nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000950">the wheezing intake and output of the sick wolf’s breath.</span>
   <span id="f000951">It drew closer,</span>
   <span id="f000952">ever closer,</span>
   <span id="f000953">through an infinitude of time,</span>
   <span id="f000954">and he did not move.</span>
   <span id="f000955">It was at his ear.</span>
   <span id="f000956">The harsh dry tongue grated like sandpaper against his cheek.</span>
   <span id="f000957">His hands shot out – or at least he willed them to shoot out.</span>
   <span id="f000958">The fingers were curved like talons,</span>
   <span id="f000959">but they closed on empty air.</span>
   <span id="f000960">Swiftness and certitude require strength,</span>
   <span id="f000961">and the man had not this strength.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000962">The patience of the wolf was terrible.</span>
   <span id="f000963">The man’s patience was no less terrible.</span>
   <span id="f000964">For half a day he lay motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000965">fighting off unconsciousness and waiting for the thing that was to feed upon him and upon which he wished to feed.</span>
   <span id="f000966">Sometimes the languid sea rose over him and he dreamed long dreams;</span>
   <span id="f000967">but ever through it all,</span>
   <span id="f000968">waking and dreaming,</span>
   <span id="f000969">he waited for the wheezing breath and the harsh caress of the tongue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000970">He did not hear the breath,</span>
   <span id="f000971">and he slipped slowly from some dream to the feel of the tongue along his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000972">He waited.</span>
   <span id="f000973">The fangs pressed softly;</span>
   <span id="f000974">the pressure increased;</span>
   <span id="f000975">the wolf was exerting its last strength in an effort to sink teeth in the food for which it had waited so long.</span>
   <span id="f000976">But the man had waited long,</span>
   <span id="f000977">and the lacerated hand closed on the jaw.</span>
   <span id="f000978">Slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000979">while the wolf struggled feebly and the hand clutched feebly,</span>
   <span id="f000980">the other hand crept across to a grip.</span>
   <span id="f000981">Five minutes later the whole weight of the man’s body was on top of the wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000982">The hands had not sufficient strength to choke the wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000983">but the face of the man was pressed close to the throat of the wolf and the mouth of the man was full of hair.</span>
   <span id="f000984">At the end of half an hour the man was aware of a warm trickle in his throat.</span>
   <span id="f000985">It was not pleasant.</span>
   <span id="f000986">It was like molten lead being forced into his stomach,</span>
   <span id="f000987">and it was forced by his will alone.</span>
   <span id="f000988">Later the man rolled over on his back and slept.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000989">There were some members of a scientific expedition on the whale-ship <em>Bedford</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000990">From the deck they remarked a strange object on the shore.</span>
   <span id="f000991">It was moving down the beach toward the water.</span>
   <span id="f000992">They were unable to classify it,</span>
   <span id="f000993">and,</span>
   <span id="f000994">being scientific men,</span>
   <span id="f000995">they climbed into the whale-boat alongside and went ashore to see.</span>
   <span id="f000996">And they saw something that was alive but which could hardly be called a man.</span>
   <span id="f000997">It was blind,</span>
   <span id="f000998">unconscious.</span>
   <span id="f000999">It squirmed along the ground like some monstrous worm.</span>
   <span id="f001000">Most of its efforts were ineffectual,</span>
   <span id="f001001">but it was persistent,</span>
   <span id="f001002">and it writhed and twisted and went ahead perhaps a score of feet an hour.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f001003">Three weeks afterward the man lay in a bunk on the whale-ship <em>Bedford</em>,</span>
   <span id="f001004">and with tears streaming down his wasted cheeks told who he was and what he had undergone.</span>
   <span id="f001005">He also babbled incoherently of his mother,</span>
   <span id="f001006">of sunny Southern California,</span>
   <span id="f001007">and a home among the orange groves and flowers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001008">The days were not many after that when he sat at table with the scientific men and ship’s officers.</span>
   <span id="f001009">He gloated over the spectacle of so much food,</span>
   <span id="f001010">watching it anxiously as it went into the mouths of others.</span>
   <span id="f001011">With the disappearance of each mouthful an expression of deep regret came into his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f001012">He was quite sane,</span>
   <span id="f001013">yet he hated those men at mealtime.</span>
   <span id="f001014">He was haunted by a fear that the food would not last.</span>
   <span id="f001015">He inquired of the cook,</span>
   <span id="f001016">the cabin-boy,</span>
   <span id="f001017">the captain,</span>
   <span id="f001018">concerning the food stores.</span>
   <span id="f001019">They reassured him countless times;</span>
   <span id="f001020">but he could not believe them,</span>
   <span id="f001021">and pried cunningly about the lazarette to see with his own eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001022">It was noticed that the man was getting fat.</span>
   <span id="f001023">He grew stouter with each day.</span>
   <span id="f001024">The scientific men shook their heads and theorized.</span>
   <span id="f001025">They limited the man at his meals,</span>
   <span id="f001026">but still his girth increased and he swelled prodigiously under his shirt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001027">The sailors grinned.</span>
   <span id="f001028">They knew.</span>
   <span id="f001029">And when the scientific men set a watch on the man,</span>
   <span id="f001030">they knew too.</span>
   <span id="f001031">They saw him slouch for’ard after breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f001032">and,</span>
   <span id="f001033">like a mendicant,</span>
   <span id="f001034">with outstretched palm,</span>
   <span id="f001035">accost a sailor.</span>
   <span id="f001036">The sailor grinned and passed him a fragment of sea biscuit.</span>
   <span id="f001037">He clutched it avariciously,</span>
   <span id="f001038">looked at it as a miser looks at gold,</span>
   <span id="f001039">and thrust it into his shirt bosom.</span>
   <span id="f001040">Similar were the donations from other grinning sailors.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001041">The scientific men were discreet.</span>
   <span id="f001042">They let him alone.</span>
   <span id="f001043">But they privily examined his bunk.</span>
   <span id="f001044">It was lined with hardtack;</span>
   <span id="f001045">the mattress was stuffed with hardtack;</span>
   <span id="f001046">every nook and cranny was filled with hardtack.</span>
   <span id="f001047">Yet he was sane.</span>
   <span id="f001048">He was taking precautions against another possible famine – that was all.</span>
   <span id="f001049">He would recover from it,</span>
   <span id="f001050">the scientific men said;</span>
   <span id="f001051">and he did,</span>
   <span id="f001052">ere the <em>Bedford’s</em> anchor rumbled down in San Francisco Bay.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

