<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Mowgli's Brothers</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">Now Rann the Kite brings home the night<br /></span>
   <span id="f000003">That Mang the Bat sets free – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000004">The herds are shut in byre and hut<br /></span>
   <span id="f000005">For loosed till dawn are we.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006">This is the hour of pride and power,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000007">Talon and tush and claw.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000008">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000009">hear the call!</span>
   <span id="f000010">– Good hunting all<br /></span>
   <span id="f000011">That keep the Jungle Law!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000012">Night-Song in the Jungle</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000013">It was seven o’clock of a very warm evening in the Seeonee hills when Father Wolf woke up from his day’s rest,</span>
   <span id="f000014">scratched himself,</span>
   <span id="f000015">yawned,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and spread out his paws one after the other to get rid of the sleepy feeling in their tips.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Mother Wolf lay with her big gray nose dropped across her four tumbling,</span>
   <span id="f000018">squealing cubs,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and the moon shone into the mouth of the cave where they all lived.</span>
   <span id="f000020">“Augrh!” said Father Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000021">“It is time to hunt again.” He was going to spring down hill when a little shadow with a bushy tail crossed the threshold and whined:</span>
   <span id="f000022">“Good luck go with you,</span>
   <span id="f000023">O Chief of the Wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000024">And good luck and strong white teeth go with noble children that they may never forget the hungry in this world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">It was the jackal – Tabaqui,</span>
   <span id="f000026">the Dish-licker – and the wolves of India despise Tabaqui because he runs about making mischief,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and telling tales,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and eating rags and pieces of leather from the village rubbish-heaps.</span>
   <span id="f000029">But they are afraid of him too,</span>
   <span id="f000030">because Tabaqui,</span>
   <span id="f000031">more than anyone else in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000032">is apt to go mad,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and then he forgets that he was ever afraid of anyone,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and runs through the forest biting everything in his way.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Even the tiger runs and hides when little Tabaqui goes mad,</span>
   <span id="f000036">for madness is the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature.</span>
   <span id="f000037">We call it hydrophobia,</span>
   <span id="f000038">but they call it dewanee – the madness – and run.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“Enter,</span>
   <span id="f000040">then,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and look,” said Father Wolf stiffly,</span>
   <span id="f000042">“but there is no food here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“For a wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000044">no,” said Tabaqui,</span>
   <span id="f000045">“but for so mean a person as myself a dry bone is a good feast.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Who are we,</span>
   <span id="f000047">the Gidur-log [the jackal people],</span>
   <span id="f000048">to pick and choose?” He scuttled to the back of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000049">where he found the bone of a buck with some meat on it,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and sat cracking the end merrily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“All thanks for this good meal,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000052">licking his lips.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“How beautiful are the noble children!</span>
   <span id="f000054">How large are their eyes!</span>
   <span id="f000055">And so young too!</span>
   <span id="f000056">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000057">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000058">I might have remembered that the children of kings are men from the beginning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000060">Tabaqui knew as well as anyone else that there is nothing so unlucky as to compliment children to their faces.</span>
   <span id="f000061">It pleased him to see Mother and Father Wolf look uncomfortable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">Tabaqui sat still,</span>
   <span id="f000063">rejoicing in the mischief that he had made,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and then he said spitefully:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000066">the Big One,</span>
   <span id="f000067">has shifted his hunting grounds.</span>
   <span id="f000068">He will hunt among these hills for the next moon,</span>
   <span id="f000069">so he has told me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">Shere Khan was the tiger who lived near the Waingunga River,</span>
   <span id="f000071">twenty miles away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">“He has no right!” Father Wolf began angrily – “By the Law of the Jungle he has no right to change his quarters without due warning.</span>
   <span id="f000073">He will frighten every head of game within ten miles,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and I – I have to kill for two,</span>
   <span id="f000075">these days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“His mother did not call him Lungri [the Lame One] for nothing,” said Mother Wolf quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000077">“He has been lame in one foot from his birth.</span>
   <span id="f000078">That is why he has only killed cattle.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Now the villagers of the Waingunga are angry with him,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and he has come here to make our villagers angry.</span>
   <span id="f000081">They will scour the jungle for him when he is far away,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and we and our children must run when the grass is set alight.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000084">we are very grateful to Shere Khan!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“Shall I tell him of your gratitude?” said Tabaqui.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“Out!” snapped Father Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000087">“Out and hunt with thy master.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Thou hast done harm enough for one night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“I go,” said Tabaqui quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000090">“Ye can hear Shere Khan below in the thickets.</span>
   <span id="f000091">I might have saved myself the message.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">Father Wolf listened,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and below in the valley that ran down to a little river he heard the dry,</span>
   <span id="f000094">angry,</span>
   <span id="f000095">snarly,</span>
   <span id="f000096">singsong whine of a tiger who has caught nothing and does not care if all the jungle knows it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“The fool!” said Father Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000098">“To begin a night’s work with that noise!</span>
   <span id="f000099">Does he think that our buck are like his fat Waingunga bullocks?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“H’sh.</span>
   <span id="f000101">It is neither bullock nor buck he hunts to-night,” said Mother Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000102">“It is Man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">The whine had changed to a sort of humming purr that seemed to come from every quarter of the compass.</span>
   <span id="f000104">It was the noise that bewilders woodcutters and gypsies sleeping in the open,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and makes them run sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Man!” said Father Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000107">showing all his white teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000108">“Faugh!</span>
   <span id="f000109">Are there not enough beetles and frogs in the tanks that he must eat Man,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and on our ground too!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">The Law of the Jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000112">which never orders anything without a reason,</span>
   <span id="f000113">forbids every beast to eat Man except when he is killing to show his children how to kill,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and then he must hunt outside the hunting grounds of his pack or tribe.</span>
   <span id="f000115">The real reason for this is that man-killing means,</span>
   <span id="f000116">sooner or later,</span>
   <span id="f000117">the arrival of white men on elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000118">with guns,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and hundreds of brown men with gongs and rockets and torches.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Then everybody in the jungle suffers.</span>
   <span id="f000121">The reason the beasts give among themselves is that Man is the weakest and most defenseless of all living things,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and it is unsportsmanlike to touch him.</span>
   <span id="f000123">They say too – and it is true – that man-eaters become mangy,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and lose their teeth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">The purr grew louder,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and ended in the full-throated “Aaarh!” of the tiger’s charge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">Then there was a howl – an untigerish howl – from Shere Khan.</span>
   <span id="f000128">“He has missed,” said Mother Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000129">“What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">Father Wolf ran out a few paces and heard Shere Khan muttering and mumbling savagely as he tumbled about in the scrub.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“The fool has had no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter’s campfire,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and has burned his feet,” said Father Wolf with a grunt.</span>
   <span id="f000133">“Tabaqui is with him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">“Something is coming uphill,” said Mother Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000135">twitching one ear.</span>
   <span id="f000136">“Get ready.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">The bushes rustled a little in the thicket,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and Father Wolf dropped with his haunches under him,</span>
   <span id="f000139">ready for his leap.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000141">if you had been watching,</span>
   <span id="f000142">you would have seen the most wonderful thing in the world – the wolf checked in mid-spring.</span>
   <span id="f000143">He made his bound before he saw what it was he was jumping at,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and then he tried to stop himself.</span>
   <span id="f000145">The result was that he shot up straight into the air for four or five feet,</span>
   <span id="f000146">landing almost where he left ground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“Man!” he snapped.</span>
   <span id="f000148">“A man’s cub.</span>
   <span id="f000149">Look!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">Directly in front of him,</span>
   <span id="f000151">holding on by a low branch,</span>
   <span id="f000152">stood a naked brown baby who could just walk – as soft and as dimpled a little atom as ever came to a wolf’s cave at night.</span>
   <span id="f000153">He looked up into Father Wolf’s face,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“Is that a man’s cub?” said Mother Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000156">“I have never seen one.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Bring it here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">A Wolf accustomed to moving his own cubs can,</span>
   <span id="f000159">if necessary,</span>
   <span id="f000160">mouth an egg without breaking it,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and though Father Wolf’s jaws closed right on the child’s back not a tooth even scratched the skin as he laid it down among the cubs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“How little!</span>
   <span id="f000163">How naked,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and – how bold!” said Mother Wolf softly.</span>
   <span id="f000165">The baby was pushing his way between the cubs to get close to the warm hide.</span>
   <span id="f000166">“Ahai!</span>
   <span id="f000167">He is taking his meal with the others.</span>
   <span id="f000168">And so this is a man’s cub.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000170">was there ever a wolf that could boast of a man’s cub among her children?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“I have heard now and again of such a thing,</span>
   <span id="f000172">but never in our Pack or in my time,” said Father Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000173">“He is altogether without hair,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and I could kill him with a touch of my foot.</span>
   <span id="f000175">But see,</span>
   <span id="f000176">he looks up and is not afraid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">The moonlight was blocked out of the mouth of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000178">for Shere Khan’s great square head and shoulders were thrust into the entrance.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Tabaqui,</span>
   <span id="f000180">behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000181">was squeaking:</span>
   <span id="f000182">“My lord,</span>
   <span id="f000183">my lord,</span>
   <span id="f000184">it went in here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“Shere Khan does us great honor,” said Father Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000186">but his eyes were very angry.</span>
   <span id="f000187">“What does Shere Khan need?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“My quarry.</span>
   <span id="f000189">A man’s cub went this way,” said Shere Khan.</span>
   <span id="f000190">“Its parents have run off.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Give it to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">Shere Khan had jumped at a woodcutter’s campfire,</span>
   <span id="f000193">as Father Wolf had said,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and was furious from the pain of his burned feet.</span>
   <span id="f000195">But Father Wolf knew that the mouth of the cave was too narrow for a tiger to come in by.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Even where he was,</span>
   <span id="f000197">Shere Khan’s shoulders and forepaws were cramped for want of room,</span>
   <span id="f000198">as a man’s would be if he tried to fight in a barrel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“The Wolves are a free people,” said Father Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000200">“They take orders from the Head of the Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and not from any striped cattle-killer.</span>
   <span id="f000202">The man’s cub is ours – to kill if we choose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">“Ye choose and ye do not choose!</span>
   <span id="f000204">What talk is this of choosing?</span>
   <span id="f000205">By the bull that I killed,</span>
   <span id="f000206">am I to stand nosing into your dog’s den for my fair dues?</span>
   <span id="f000207">It is I,</span>
   <span id="f000208">Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000209">who speak!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">The tiger’s roar filled the cave with thunder.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Mother Wolf shook herself clear of the cubs and sprang forward,</span>
   <span id="f000212">her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000213">like two green moons in the darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000214">facing the blazing eyes of Shere Khan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“And it is I,</span>
   <span id="f000216">Raksha [The Demon],</span>
   <span id="f000217">who answers.</span>
   <span id="f000218">The man’s cub is mine,</span>
   <span id="f000219">Lungri – mine to me!</span>
   <span id="f000220">He shall not be killed.</span>
   <span id="f000221">He shall live to run with the Pack and to hunt with the Pack;</span>
   <span id="f000222">and in the end,</span>
   <span id="f000223">look you,</span>
   <span id="f000224">hunter of little naked cubs – frog-eater – fish-killer – he shall hunt thee!</span>
   <span id="f000225">Now get hence,</span>
   <span id="f000226">or by the Sambhur that I killed</span>
   <span id="f000227">(I eat no starved cattle),</span>
   <span id="f000228">back thou goest to thy mother,</span>
   <span id="f000229">burned beast of the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000230">lamer than ever thou camest into the world!</span>
   <span id="f000231">Go!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">Father Wolf looked on amazed.</span>
   <span id="f000233">He had almost forgotten the days when he won Mother Wolf in fair fight from five other wolves,</span>
   <span id="f000234">when she ran in the Pack and was not called The Demon for compliment’s sake.</span>
   <span id="f000235">Shere Khan might have faced Father Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000236">but he could not stand up against Mother Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000237">for he knew that where he was she had all the advantage of the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and would fight to the death.</span>
   <span id="f000239">So he backed out of the cave mouth growling,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and when he was clear he shouted:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Each dog barks in his own yard!</span>
   <span id="f000242">We will see what the Pack will say to this fostering of man-cubs.</span>
   <span id="f000243">The cub is mine,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and to my teeth he will come in the end,</span>
   <span id="f000245">O bush-tailed thieves!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">Mother Wolf threw herself down panting among the cubs,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and Father Wolf said to her gravely:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“Shere Khan speaks this much truth.</span>
   <span id="f000249">The cub must be shown to the Pack.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Wilt thou still keep him,</span>
   <span id="f000251">Mother?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Keep him!” she gasped.</span>
   <span id="f000253">“He came naked,</span>
   <span id="f000254">by night,</span>
   <span id="f000255">alone and very hungry;</span>
   <span id="f000256">yet he was not afraid!</span>
   <span id="f000257">Look,</span>
   <span id="f000258">he has pushed one of my babes to one side already.</span>
   <span id="f000259">And that lame butcher would have killed him and would have run off to the Waingunga while the villagers here hunted through all our lairs in revenge!</span>
   <span id="f000260">Keep him?</span>
   <span id="f000261">Assuredly I will keep him.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Lie still,</span>
   <span id="f000263">little frog.</span>
   <span id="f000264">O thou Mowgli – for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee – the time will come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“But what will our Pack say?” said Father Wolf.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">The Law of the Jungle lays down very clearly that any wolf may,</span>
   <span id="f000267">when he marries,</span>
   <span id="f000268">withdraw from the Pack he belongs to.</span>
   <span id="f000269">But as soon as his cubs are old enough to stand on their feet he must bring them to the Pack Council,</span>
   <span id="f000270">which is generally held once a month at full moon,</span>
   <span id="f000271">in order that the other wolves may identify them.</span>
   <span id="f000272">After that inspection the cubs are free to run where they please,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and until they have killed their first buck no excuse is accepted if a grown wolf of the Pack kills one of them.</span>
   <span id="f000274">The punishment is death where the murderer can be found;</span>
   <span id="f000275">and if you think for a minute you will see that this must be so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">Father Wolf waited till his cubs could run a little,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and then on the night of the Pack Meeting took them and Mowgli and Mother Wolf to the Council Rock – a hilltop covered with stones and boulders where a hundred wolves could hide.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Akela,</span>
   <span id="f000279">the great gray Lone Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000280">who led all the Pack by strength and cunning,</span>
   <span id="f000281">lay out at full length on his rock,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and below him sat forty or more wolves of every size and color,</span>
   <span id="f000283">from badger-colored veterans who could handle a buck alone to young black three-year-olds who thought they could.</span>
   <span id="f000284">The Lone Wolf had led them for a year now.</span>
   <span id="f000285">He had fallen twice into a wolf trap in his youth,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and once he had been beaten and left for dead;</span>
   <span id="f000287">so he knew the manners and customs of men.</span>
   <span id="f000288">There was very little talking at the Rock.</span>
   <span id="f000289">The cubs tumbled over each other in the center of the circle where their mothers and fathers sat,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly up to a cub,</span>
   <span id="f000291">look at him carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and return to his place on noiseless feet.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Sometimes a mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure that he had not been overlooked.</span>
   <span id="f000294">Akela from his rock would cry:</span>
   <span id="f000295">“Ye know the Law – ye know the Law.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Look well,</span>
   <span id="f000297">O Wolves!” And the anxious mothers would take up the call:</span>
   <span id="f000298">“Look – look well,</span>
   <span id="f000299">O Wolves!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">At last – and Mother Wolf’s neck bristles lifted as the time came – Father Wolf pushed “Mowgli the Frog,” as they called him,</span>
   <span id="f000301">into the center,</span>
   <span id="f000302">where he sat laughing and playing with some pebbles that glistened in the moonlight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">Akela never raised his head from his paws,</span>
   <span id="f000304">but went on with the monotonous cry:</span>
   <span id="f000305">“Look well!” A muffled roar came up from behind the rocks – the voice of Shere Khan crying:</span>
   <span id="f000306">“The cub is mine.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Give him to me.</span>
   <span id="f000308">What have the Free People to do with a man’s cub?” Akela never even twitched his ears.</span>
   <span id="f000309">All he said was:</span>
   <span id="f000310">“Look well,</span>
   <span id="f000311">O Wolves!</span>
   <span id="f000312">What have the Free People to do with the orders of any save the Free People?</span>
   <span id="f000313">Look well!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">There was a chorus of deep growls,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and a young wolf in his fourth year flung back Shere Khan’s question to Akela:</span>
   <span id="f000316">“What have the Free People to do with a man’s cub?” Now,</span>
   <span id="f000317">the Law of the Jungle lays down that if there is any dispute as to the right of a cub to be accepted by the Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000318">he must be spoken for by at least two members of the Pack who are not his father and mother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“Who speaks for this cub?” said Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000320">“Among the Free People who speaks?” There was no answer and Mother Wolf got ready for what she knew would be her last fight,</span>
   <span id="f000321">if things came to fighting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">Then the only other creature who is allowed at the Pack Council – Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000323">the sleepy brown bear who teaches the wolf cubs the Law of the Jungle:</span>
   <span id="f000324">old Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000325">who can come and go where he pleases because he eats only nuts and roots and honey – rose upon his hind quarters and grunted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“The man’s cub – the man’s cub?” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000327">“I speak for the man’s cub.</span>
   <span id="f000328">There is no harm in a man’s cub.</span>
   <span id="f000329">I have no gift of words,</span>
   <span id="f000330">but I speak the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Let him run with the Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and be entered with the others.</span>
   <span id="f000333">I myself will teach him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“We need yet another,” said Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000335">“Baloo has spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and he is our teacher for the young cubs.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Who speaks besides Baloo?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">A black shadow dropped down into the circle.</span>
   <span id="f000339">It was Bagheera the Black Panther,</span>
   <span id="f000340">inky black all over,</span>
   <span id="f000341">but with the panther markings showing up in certain lights like the pattern of watered silk.</span>
   <span id="f000342">Everybody knew Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and nobody cared to cross his path;</span>
   <span id="f000344">for he was as cunning as Tabaqui,</span>
   <span id="f000345">as bold as the wild buffalo,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and as reckless as the wounded elephant.</span>
   <span id="f000347">But he had a voice as soft as wild honey dripping from a tree,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and a skin softer than down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“O Akela,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and ye the Free People,” he purred,</span>
   <span id="f000351">“I have no right in your assembly,</span>
   <span id="f000352">but the Law of the Jungle says that if there is a doubt which is not a killing matter in regard to a new cub,</span>
   <span id="f000353">the life of that cub may be bought at a price.</span>
   <span id="f000354">And the Law does not say who may or may not pay that price.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Am I right?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“Good!</span>
   <span id="f000357">Good!” said the young wolves,</span>
   <span id="f000358">who are always hungry.</span>
   <span id="f000359">“Listen to Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000360">The cub can be bought for a price.</span>
   <span id="f000361">It is the Law.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">“Knowing that I have no right to speak here,</span>
   <span id="f000363">I ask your leave.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“Speak then,” cried twenty voices.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“To kill a naked cub is shame.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000367">he may make better sport for you when he is grown.</span>
   <span id="f000368">Baloo has spoken in his behalf.</span>
   <span id="f000369">Now to Baloo’s word I will add one bull,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and a fat one,</span>
   <span id="f000371">newly killed,</span>
   <span id="f000372">not half a mile from here,</span>
   <span id="f000373">if ye will accept the man’s cub according to the Law.</span>
   <span id="f000374">Is it difficult?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">There was a clamor of scores of voices,</span>
   <span id="f000376">saying:</span>
   <span id="f000377">“What matter?</span>
   <span id="f000378">He will die in the winter rains.</span>
   <span id="f000379">He will scorch in the sun.</span>
   <span id="f000380">What harm can a naked frog do us?</span>
   <span id="f000381">Let him run with the Pack.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Where is the bull,</span>
   <span id="f000383">Bagheera?</span>
   <span id="f000384">Let him be accepted.” And then came Akela’s deep bay,</span>
   <span id="f000385">crying:</span>
   <span id="f000386">“Look well – look well,</span>
   <span id="f000387">O Wolves!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">Mowgli was still deeply interested in the pebbles,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and he did not notice when the wolves came and looked at him one by one.</span>
   <span id="f000390">At last they all went down the hill for the dead bull,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and only Akela,</span>
   <span id="f000392">Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000393">Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and Mowgli’s own wolves were left.</span>
   <span id="f000395">Shere Khan roared still in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000396">for he was very angry that Mowgli had not been handed over to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000398">roar well,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000399">under his whiskers,</span>
   <span id="f000400">“for the time will come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune,</span>
   <span id="f000401">or I know nothing of man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“It was well done,” said Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000403">“Men and their cubs are very wise.</span>
   <span id="f000404">He may be a help in time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Truly,</span>
   <span id="f000406">a help in time of need;</span>
   <span id="f000407">for none can hope to lead the Pack forever,” said Bagheera.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">Akela said nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000409">He was thinking of the time that comes to every leader of every pack when his strength goes from him and he gets feebler and feebler,</span>
   <span id="f000410">till at last he is killed by the wolves and a new leader comes up – to be killed in his turn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“Take him away,” he said to Father Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000412">“and train him as befits one of the Free People.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

