<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Mowgli's Brothers II<br />Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the price of a bull and on Baloo’s good word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000003">Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years,</span>
   <span id="f000004">and only guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli led among the wolves,</span>
   <span id="f000005">because if it were written out it would fill ever so many books.</span>
   <span id="f000006">He grew up with the cubs,</span>
   <span id="f000007">though they,</span>
   <span id="f000008">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000009">were grown wolves almost before he was a child.</span>
   <span id="f000010">And Father Wolf taught him his business,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and the meaning of things in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000012">till every rustle in the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000013">every breath of the warm night air,</span>
   <span id="f000014">every note of the owls above his head,</span>
   <span id="f000015">every scratch of a bat’s claws as it roosted for a while in a tree,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and every splash of every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as much to him as the work of his office means to a business man.</span>
   <span id="f000017">When he was not learning he sat out in the sun and slept,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and ate and went to sleep again.</span>
   <span id="f000019">When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest pools;</span>
   <span id="f000020">and when he wanted honey</span>
   <span id="f000021">(Baloo told him that honey and nuts were just as pleasant to eat as raw meat)</span>
   <span id="f000022">he climbed up for it,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and that Bagheera showed him how to do.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Bagheera would lie out on a branch and call,</span>
   <span id="f000025">“Come along,</span>
   <span id="f000026">Little Brother,” and at first Mowgli would cling like the sloth,</span>
   <span id="f000027">but afterward he would fling himself through the branches almost as boldly as the gray ape.</span>
   <span id="f000028">He took his place at the Council Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000029">too,</span>
   <span id="f000030">when the Pack met,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000032">the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and so he used to stare for fun.</span>
   <span id="f000034">At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads of his friends,</span>
   <span id="f000035">for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their coats.</span>
   <span id="f000036">He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts,</span>
   <span id="f000038">but he had a mistrust of men because Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and told him that it was a trap.</span>
   <span id="f000040">He loved better than anything else to go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000041">to sleep all through the drowsy day,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and at night see how Bagheera did his killing.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and so did Mowgli – with one exception.</span>
   <span id="f000045">As soon as he was old enough to understand things,</span>
   <span id="f000046">Bagheera told him that he must never touch cattle because he had been bought into the Pack at the price of a bull’s life.</span>
   <span id="f000047">“All the jungle is thine,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000048">“and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill;</span>
   <span id="f000049">but for the sake of the bull that bought thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old.</span>
   <span id="f000050">That is the Law of the Jungle.” Mowgli obeyed faithfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know that he is learning any lessons,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and who has nothing in the world to think of except things to eat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature to be trusted,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and that some day he must kill Shere Khan.</span>
   <span id="f000055">But though a young wolf would have remembered that advice every hour,</span>
   <span id="f000056">Mowgli forgot it because he was only a boy – though he would have called himself a wolf if he had been able to speak in any human tongue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000058">for as Akela grew older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great friends with the younger wolves of the Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000059">who followed him for scraps,</span>
   <span id="f000060">a thing Akela would never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to the proper bounds.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Then Shere Khan would flatter them and wonder that such fine young hunters were content to be led by a dying wolf and a man’s cub.</span>
   <span id="f000062">“They tell me,” Shere Khan would say,</span>
   <span id="f000063">“that at Council ye dare not look him between the eyes.” And the young wolves would growl and bristle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000065">who had eyes and ears everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000066">knew something of this,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and once or twice he told Mowgli in so many words that Shere Khan would kill him some day.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Mowgli would laugh and answer:</span>
   <span id="f000069">“I have the Pack and I have thee;</span>
   <span id="f000070">and Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000071">though he is so lazy,</span>
   <span id="f000072">might strike a blow or two for my sake.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Why should I be afraid?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">It was one very warm day that a new notion came to Bagheera – born of something that he had heard.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Perhaps Ikki the Porcupine had told him;</span>
   <span id="f000076">but he said to Mowgli when they were deep in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000077">as the boy lay with his head on Bagheera’s beautiful black skin,</span>
   <span id="f000078">“Little Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000079">how often have I told thee that Shere Khan is thy enemy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“As many times as there are nuts on that palm,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000081">who,</span>
   <span id="f000082">naturally,</span>
   <span id="f000083">could not count.</span>
   <span id="f000084">“What of it?</span>
   <span id="f000085">I am sleepy,</span>
   <span id="f000086">Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and Shere Khan is all long tail and loud talk – like Mao,</span>
   <span id="f000088">the Peacock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“But this is no time for sleeping.</span>
   <span id="f000090">Baloo knows it;</span>
   <span id="f000091">I know it;</span>
   <span id="f000092">the Pack know it;</span>
   <span id="f000093">and even the foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000094">foolish deer know.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Tabaqui has told thee too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000097">ho!” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000098">“Tabaqui came to me not long ago with some rude talk that I was a naked man’s cub and not fit to dig pig-nuts.</span>
   <span id="f000099">But I caught Tabaqui by the tail and swung him twice against a palm-tree to teach him better manners.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“That was foolishness,</span>
   <span id="f000101">for though Tabaqui is a mischief-maker,</span>
   <span id="f000102">he would have told thee of something that concerned thee closely.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Open those eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000104">Little Brother.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Shere Khan dare not kill thee in the jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000106">But remember,</span>
   <span id="f000107">Akela is very old,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and soon the day comes when he cannot kill his buck,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and then he will be leader no more.</span>
   <span id="f000110">Many of the wolves that looked thee over when thou wast brought to the Council first are old too,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and the young wolves believe,</span>
   <span id="f000112">as Shere Khan has taught them,</span>
   <span id="f000113">that a man-cub has no place with the Pack.</span>
   <span id="f000114">In a little time thou wilt be a man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers?” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000116">“I was born in the jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000117">I have obeyed the Law of the Jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have not pulled a thorn.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Surely they are my brothers!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">Bagheera stretched himself at full length and half shut his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000121">“Little Brother,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000122">“feel under my jaw.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">Mowgli put up his strong brown hand,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and just under Bagheera’s silky chin,</span>
   <span id="f000125">where the giant rolling muscles were all hid by the glossy hair,</span>
   <span id="f000126">he came upon a little bald spot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“There is no one in the jungle that knows that I,</span>
   <span id="f000128">Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000129">carry that mark – the mark of the collar;</span>
   <span id="f000130">and yet,</span>
   <span id="f000131">Little Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000132">I was born among men,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and it was among men that my mother died – in the cages of the king’s palace at Oodeypore.</span>
   <span id="f000134">It was because of this that I paid the price for thee at the Council when thou wast a little naked cub.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000136">I too was born among men.</span>
   <span id="f000137">I had never seen the jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000138">They fed me behind bars from an iron pan till one night I felt that I was Bagheera – the Panther – and no man’s plaything,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and I broke the silly lock with one blow of my paw and came away.</span>
   <span id="f000140">And because I had learned the ways of men,</span>
   <span id="f000141">I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Is it not so?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“Yes,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000144">“all the jungle fear Bagheera – all except Mowgli.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000146">thou art a man’s cub,” said the Black Panther very tenderly.</span>
   <span id="f000147">“And even as I returned to my jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000148">so thou must go back to men at last – to the men who are thy brothers – if thou art not killed in the Council.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“But why – but why should any wish to kill me?” said Mowgli.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“Look at me,” said Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000151">And Mowgli looked at him steadily between the eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000152">The big panther turned his head away in half a minute.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“That is why,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000154">shifting his paw on the leaves.</span>
   <span id="f000155">“Not even I can look thee between the eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and I was born among men,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and I love thee,</span>
   <span id="f000158">Little Brother.</span>
   <span id="f000159">The others they hate thee because their eyes cannot meet thine;</span>
   <span id="f000160">because thou art wise;</span>
   <span id="f000161">because thou hast pulled out thorns from their feet – because thou art a man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“I did not know these things,” said Mowgli sullenly,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and he frowned under his heavy black eyebrows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">“What is the Law of the Jungle?</span>
   <span id="f000165">Strike first and then give tongue.</span>
   <span id="f000166">By thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man.</span>
   <span id="f000167">But be wise.</span>
   <span id="f000168">It is in my heart that when Akela misses his next kill – and at each hunt it costs him more to pin the buck – the Pack will turn against him and against thee.</span>
   <span id="f000169">They will hold a jungle Council at the Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and then – and then – I have it!” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000171">leaping up.</span>
   <span id="f000172">“Go thou down quickly to the men’s huts in the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and take some of the Red Flower which they grow there,</span>
   <span id="f000174">so that when the time comes thou mayest have even a stronger friend than I or Baloo or those of the Pack that love thee.</span>
   <span id="f000175">Get the Red Flower.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">By Red Flower Bagheera meant fire,</span>
   <span id="f000177">only no creature in the jungle will call fire by its proper name.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Every beast lives in deadly fear of it,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and invents a hundred ways of describing it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“The Red Flower?” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000181">“That grows outside their huts in the twilight.</span>
   <span id="f000182">I will get some.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">“There speaks the man’s cub,” said Bagheera proudly.</span>
   <span id="f000184">“Remember that it grows in little pots.</span>
   <span id="f000185">Get one swiftly,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and keep it by thee for time of need.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“Good!” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000188">“I go.</span>
   <span id="f000189">But art thou sure,</span>
   <span id="f000190">O my Bagheera” – he slipped his arm around the splendid neck and looked deep into the big eyes – “art thou sure that all this is Shere Khan’s doing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“By the Broken Lock that freed me,</span>
   <span id="f000192">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f000193">Little Brother.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000195">by the Bull that bought me,</span>
   <span id="f000196">I will pay Shere Khan full tale for this,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and it may be a little over,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and he bounded away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“That is a man.</span>
   <span id="f000200">That is all a man,” said Bagheera to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000201">lying down again.</span>
   <span id="f000202">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000203">Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000204">never was a blacker hunting than that frog-hunt of thine ten years ago!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">Mowgli was far and far through the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000206">running hard,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and his heart was hot in him.</span>
   <span id="f000208">He came to the cave as the evening mist rose,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and drew breath,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and looked down the valley.</span>
   <span id="f000211">The cubs were out,</span>
   <span id="f000212">but Mother Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000213">at the back of the cave,</span>
   <span id="f000214">knew by his breathing that something was troubling her frog.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“What is it,</span>
   <span id="f000216">Son?” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“Some bat’s chatter of Shere Khan,” he called back.</span>
   <span id="f000218">“I hunt among the plowed fields tonight,” and he plunged downward through the bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000219">to the stream at the bottom of the valley.</span>
   <span id="f000220">There he checked,</span>
   <span id="f000221">for he heard the yell of the Pack hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000222">heard the bellow of a hunted Sambhur,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and the snort as the buck turned at bay.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Then there were wicked,</span>
   <span id="f000225">bitter howls from the young wolves:</span>
   <span id="f000226">“Akela!</span>
   <span id="f000227">Akela!</span>
   <span id="f000228">Let the Lone Wolf show his strength.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Room for the leader of the Pack!</span>
   <span id="f000230">Spring,</span>
   <span id="f000231">Akela!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">The Lone Wolf must have sprung and missed his hold,</span>
   <span id="f000233">for Mowgli heard the snap of his teeth and then a yelp as the Sambhur knocked him over with his forefoot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">He did not wait for anything more,</span>
   <span id="f000235">but dashed on;</span>
   <span id="f000236">and the yells grew fainter behind him as he ran into the croplands where the villagers lived.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“Bagheera spoke truth,” he panted,</span>
   <span id="f000238">as he nestled down in some cattle fodder by the window of a hut.</span>
   <span id="f000239">“To-morrow is one day both for Akela and for me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">Then he pressed his face close to the window and watched the fire on the hearth.</span>
   <span id="f000241">He saw the husbandman’s wife get up and feed it in the night with black lumps.</span>
   <span id="f000242">And when the morning came and the mists were all white and cold,</span>
   <span id="f000243">he saw the man’s child pick up a wicker pot plastered inside with earth,</span>
   <span id="f000244">fill it with lumps of red-hot charcoal,</span>
   <span id="f000245">put it under his blanket,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and go out to tend the cows in the byre.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“Is that all?” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000248">“If a cub can do it,</span>
   <span id="f000249">there is nothing to fear.” So he strode round the corner and met the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000250">took the pot from his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and disappeared into the mist while the boy howled with fear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“They are very like me,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000253">blowing into the pot as he had seen the woman do.</span>
   <span id="f000254">“This thing will die if I do not give it things to eat”;</span>
   <span id="f000255">and he dropped twigs and dried bark on the red stuff.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Halfway up the hill he met Bagheera with the morning dew shining like moonstones on his coat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">“Akela has missed,” said the Panther.</span>
   <span id="f000258">“They would have killed him last night,</span>
   <span id="f000259">but they needed thee also.</span>
   <span id="f000260">They were looking for thee on the hill.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“I was among the plowed lands.</span>
   <span id="f000262">I am ready.</span>
   <span id="f000263">See!” Mowgli held up the fire-pot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“Good!</span>
   <span id="f000265">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000266">I have seen men thrust a dry branch into that stuff,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and presently the Red Flower blossomed at the end of it.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Art thou not afraid?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Why should I fear?</span>
   <span id="f000271">I remember now – if it is not a dream – how,</span>
   <span id="f000272">before I was a Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000273">I lay beside the Red Flower,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and it was warm and pleasant.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">All that day Mowgli sat in the cave tending his fire pot and dipping dry branches into it to see how they looked.</span>
   <span id="f000276">He found a branch that satisfied him,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and in the evening when Tabaqui came to the cave and told him rudely enough that he was wanted at the Council Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000278">he laughed till Tabaqui ran away.</span>
   <span id="f000279">Then Mowgli went to the Council,</span>
   <span id="f000280">still laughing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">Akela the Lone Wolf lay by the side of his rock as a sign that the leadership of the Pack was open,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and Shere Khan with his following of scrap-fed wolves walked to and fro openly being flattered.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Bagheera lay close to Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and the fire pot was between Mowgli’s knees.</span>
   <span id="f000285">When they were all gathered together,</span>
   <span id="f000286">Shere Khan began to speak – a thing he would never have dared to do when Akela was in his prime.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“He has no right,” whispered Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000288">“Say so.</span>
   <span id="f000289">He is a dog’s son.</span>
   <span id="f000290">He will be frightened.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">Mowgli sprang to his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000292">“Free People,” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000293">“does Shere Khan lead the Pack?</span>
   <span id="f000294">What has a tiger to do with our leadership?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“Seeing that the leadership is yet open,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and being asked to speak – ” Shere Khan began.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“By whom?” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000298">“Are we all jackals,</span>
   <span id="f000299">to fawn on this cattle butcher?</span>
   <span id="f000300">The leadership of the Pack is with the Pack alone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">There were yells of “Silence,</span>
   <span id="f000302">thou man’s cub!” “Let him speak.</span>
   <span id="f000303">He has kept our Law”;</span>
   <span id="f000304">and at last the seniors of the Pack thundered:</span>
   <span id="f000305">“Let the Dead Wolf speak.” When a leader of the Pack has missed his kill,</span>
   <span id="f000306">he is called the Dead Wolf as long as he lives,</span>
   <span id="f000307">which is not long.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">Akela raised his old head wearily:</span>
   <span id="f000309">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">“Free People,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and ye too,</span>
   <span id="f000312">jackals of Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000313">for twelve seasons I have led ye to and from the kill,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and in all that time not one has been trapped or maimed.</span>
   <span id="f000315">Now I have missed my kill.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Ye know how that plot was made.</span>
   <span id="f000317">Ye know how ye brought me up to an untried buck to make my weakness known.</span>
   <span id="f000318">It was cleverly done.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Your right is to kill me here on the Council Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000320">now.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000322">I ask,</span>
   <span id="f000323">who comes to make an end of the Lone Wolf?</span>
   <span id="f000324">For it is my right,</span>
   <span id="f000325">by the Law of the Jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000326">that ye come one by one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">There was a long hush,</span>
   <span id="f000328">for no single wolf cared to fight Akela to the death.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Then Shere Khan roared:</span>
   <span id="f000330">“Bah!</span>
   <span id="f000331">What have we to do with this toothless fool?</span>
   <span id="f000332">He is doomed to die!</span>
   <span id="f000333">It is the man-cub who has lived too long.</span>
   <span id="f000334">Free People,</span>
   <span id="f000335">he was my meat from the first.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Give him to me.</span>
   <span id="f000337">I am weary of this man-wolf folly.</span>
   <span id="f000338">He has troubled the jungle for ten seasons.</span>
   <span id="f000339">Give me the man-cub,</span>
   <span id="f000340">or I will hunt here always,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and not give you one bone.</span>
   <span id="f000342">He is a man,</span>
   <span id="f000343">a man’s child,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and from the marrow of my bones I hate him!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">Then more than half the Pack yelled:</span>
   <span id="f000346">“A man!</span>
   <span id="f000347">A man!</span>
   <span id="f000348">What has a man to do with us?</span>
   <span id="f000349">Let him go to his own place.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“And turn all the people of the villages against us?” clamored Shere Khan.</span>
   <span id="f000351">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000352">give him to me.</span>
   <span id="f000353">He is a man,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and none of us can look him between the eyes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">Akela lifted his head again and said,</span>
   <span id="f000356">“He has eaten our food.</span>
   <span id="f000357">He has slept with us.</span>
   <span id="f000358">He has driven game for us.</span>
   <span id="f000359">He has broken no word of the Law of the Jungle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“Also,</span>
   <span id="f000361">I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted.</span>
   <span id="f000362">The worth of a bull is little,</span>
   <span id="f000363">but Bagheera’s honor is something that he will perhaps fight for,” said Bagheera in his gentlest voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“A bull paid ten years ago!” the Pack snarled.</span>
   <span id="f000365">“What do we care for bones ten years old?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“Or for a pledge?” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000367">his white teeth bared under his lip.</span>
   <span id="f000368">“Well are ye called the Free People!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“No man’s cub can run with the people of the jungle,” howled Shere Khan.</span>
   <span id="f000370">“Give him to me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“He is our brother in all but blood,” Akela went on,</span>
   <span id="f000372">“and ye would kill him here!</span>
   <span id="f000373">In truth,</span>
   <span id="f000374">I have lived too long.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Some of ye are eaters of cattle,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and of others I have heard that,</span>
   <span id="f000377">under Shere Khan’s teaching,</span>
   <span id="f000378">ye go by dark night and snatch children from the villager’s doorstep.</span>
   <span id="f000379">Therefore I know ye to be cowards,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and it is to cowards I speak.</span>
   <span id="f000381">It is certain that I must die,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and my life is of no worth,</span>
   <span id="f000383">or I would offer that in the man-cub’s place.</span>
   <span id="f000384">But for the sake of the Honor of the Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000385">– a little matter that by being without a leader ye have forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000386">– I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own place,</span>
   <span id="f000387">I will not,</span>
   <span id="f000388">when my time comes to die,</span>
   <span id="f000389">bare one tooth against ye.</span>
   <span id="f000390">I will die without fighting.</span>
   <span id="f000391">That will at least save the Pack three lives.</span>
   <span id="f000392">More I cannot do;</span>
   <span id="f000393">but if ye will,</span>
   <span id="f000394">I can save ye the shame that comes of killing a brother against whom there is no fault – a brother spoken for and bought into the Pack according to the Law of the Jungle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“He is a man – a man – a man!” snarled the Pack.</span>
   <span id="f000396">And most of the wolves began to gather round Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000397">whose tail was beginning to switch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">“Now the business is in thy hands,” said Bagheera to Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000399">“We can do no more except fight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">Mowgli stood upright – the fire pot in his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Then he stretched out his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and yawned in the face of the Council;</span>
   <span id="f000403">but he was furious with rage and sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000404">for,</span>
   <span id="f000405">wolflike,</span>
   <span id="f000406">the wolves had never told him how they hated him.</span>
   <span id="f000407">“Listen you!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000408">“There is no need for this dog’s jabber.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Ye have told me so often tonight that I am a man</span>
   <span id="f000410">(and indeed I would have been a wolf with you to my life’s end)</span>
   <span id="f000411">that I feel your words are true.</span>
   <span id="f000412">So I do not call ye my brothers any more,</span>
   <span id="f000413">but sag [dogs],</span>
   <span id="f000414">as a man should.</span>
   <span id="f000415">What ye will do,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and what ye will not do,</span>
   <span id="f000417">is not yours to say.</span>
   <span id="f000418">That matter is with me;</span>
   <span id="f000419">and that we may see the matter more plainly,</span>
   <span id="f000420">I,</span>
   <span id="f000421">the man,</span>
   <span id="f000422">have brought here a little of the Red Flower which ye,</span>
   <span id="f000423">dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000424">fear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">He flung the fire pot on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and some of the red coals lit a tuft of dried moss that flared up,</span>
   <span id="f000427">as all the Council drew back in terror before the leaping flames.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">Mowgli thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twigs lit and crackled,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and whirled it above his head among the cowering wolves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">“Thou art the master,” said Bagheera in an undertone.</span>
   <span id="f000431">“Save Akela from the death.</span>
   <span id="f000432">He was ever thy friend.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">Akela,</span>
   <span id="f000434">the grim old wolf who had never asked for mercy in his life,</span>
   <span id="f000435">gave one piteous look at Mowgli as the boy stood all naked,</span>
   <span id="f000436">his long black hair tossing over his shoulders in the light of the blazing branch that made the shadows jump and quiver.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“Good!” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000438">staring round slowly.</span>
   <span id="f000439">“I see that ye are dogs.</span>
   <span id="f000440">I go from you to my own people – if they be my own people.</span>
   <span id="f000441">The jungle is shut to me,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and I must forget your talk and your companionship.</span>
   <span id="f000443">But I will be more merciful than ye are.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Because I was all but your brother in blood,</span>
   <span id="f000445">I promise that when I am a man among men I will not betray ye to men as ye have betrayed me.” He kicked the fire with his foot,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and the sparks flew up.</span>
   <span id="f000447">“There shall be no war between any of us in the Pack.</span>
   <span id="f000448">But here is a debt to pay before I go.” He strode forward to where Shere Khan sat blinking stupidly at the flames,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and caught him by the tuft on his chin.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Bagheera followed in case of accidents.</span>
   <span id="f000451">“Up,</span>
   <span id="f000452">dog!” Mowgli cried.</span>
   <span id="f000453">“Up,</span>
   <span id="f000454">when a man speaks,</span>
   <span id="f000455">or I will set that coat ablaze!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">Shere Khan’s ears lay flat back on his head,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and he shut his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000458">for the blazing branch was very near.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“This cattle-killer said he would kill me in the Council because he had not killed me when I was a cub.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Thus and thus,</span>
   <span id="f000461">then,</span>
   <span id="f000462">do we beat dogs when we are men.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Stir a whisker,</span>
   <span id="f000464">Lungri,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and I ram the Red Flower down thy gullet!” He beat Shere Khan over the head with the branch,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and the tiger whimpered and whined in an agony of fear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“Pah!</span>
   <span id="f000468">Singed jungle cat – go now!</span>
   <span id="f000469">But remember when next I come to the Council Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000470">as a man should come,</span>
   <span id="f000471">it will be with Shere Khan’s hide on my head.</span>
   <span id="f000472">For the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000473">Akela goes free to live as he pleases.</span>
   <span id="f000474">Ye will not kill him,</span>
   <span id="f000475">because that is not my will.</span>
   <span id="f000476">Nor do I think that ye will sit here any longer,</span>
   <span id="f000477">lolling out your tongues as though ye were somebodies,</span>
   <span id="f000478">instead of dogs whom I drive out – thus!</span>
   <span id="f000479">Go!” The fire was burning furiously at the end of the branch,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and Mowgli struck right and left round the circle,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and the wolves ran howling with the sparks burning their fur.</span>
   <span id="f000482">At last there were only Akela,</span>
   <span id="f000483">Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and perhaps ten wolves that had taken Mowgli’s part.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Then something began to hurt Mowgli inside him,</span>
   <span id="f000486">as he had never been hurt in his life before,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and he caught his breath and sobbed,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and the tears ran down his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">“What is it?</span>
   <span id="f000490">What is it?” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000491">“I do not wish to leave the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and I do not know what this is.</span>
   <span id="f000493">Am I dying,</span>
   <span id="f000494">Bagheera?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000496">Little Brother.</span>
   <span id="f000497">That is only tears such as men use,” said Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000498">“Now I know thou art a man,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and a man’s cub no longer.</span>
   <span id="f000500">The jungle is shut indeed to thee henceforward.</span>
   <span id="f000501">Let them fall,</span>
   <span id="f000502">Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000503">They are only tears.” So Mowgli sat and cried as though his heart would break;</span>
   <span id="f000504">and he had never cried in all his life before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">“Now,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000506">“I will go to men.</span>
   <span id="f000507">But first I must say farewell to my mother.” And he went to the cave where she lived with Father Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and he cried on her coat,</span>
   <span id="f000509">while the four cubs howled miserably.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000510">“Ye will not forget me?” said Mowgli.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“Never while we can follow a trail,” said the cubs.</span>
   <span id="f000512">“Come to the foot of the hill when thou art a man,</span>
   <span id="f000513">and we will talk to thee;</span>
   <span id="f000514">and we will come into the croplands to play with thee by night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">“Come soon!” said Father Wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000516">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000517">wise little frog,</span>
   <span id="f000518">come again soon;</span>
   <span id="f000519">for we be old,</span>
   <span id="f000520">thy mother and I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">“Come soon,” said Mother Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000522">“little naked son of mine.</span>
   <span id="f000523">For,</span>
   <span id="f000524">listen,</span>
   <span id="f000525">child of man,</span>
   <span id="f000526">I loved thee more than ever I loved my cubs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">“I will surely come,” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000528">“And when I come it will be to lay out Shere Khan’s hide upon the Council Rock.</span>
   <span id="f000529">Do not forget me!</span>
   <span id="f000530">Tell them in the jungle never to forget me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">The dawn was beginning to break when Mowgli went down the hillside alone,</span>
   <span id="f000532">to meet those mysterious things that are called men.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000533">Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000534">As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled<br /></span>
   <span id="f000535">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000536">twice and again!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000537">And a doe leaped up,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and a doe leaped up<br /></span>
   <span id="f000539">From the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000540">This I,</span>
   <span id="f000541">scouting alone,</span>
   <span id="f000542">beheld,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000543">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000544">twice and again!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled<br /></span>
   <span id="f000546">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000547">twice and again!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000548">And a wolf stole back,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and a wolf stole back<br /></span>
   <span id="f000550">To carry the word to the waiting pack,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000551">And we sought and we found and we bayed on his track<br /></span>
   <span id="f000552">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000553">twice and again!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">As the dawn was breaking the Wolf Pack yelled<br /></span>
   <span id="f000555">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000556">twice and again!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000557">Feet in the jungle that leave no mark!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">Eyes that can see in the dark – the dark!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000559">Tongue – give tongue to it!</span>
   <span id="f000560">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000561">O hark!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000562">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000563">twice and again!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

