<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Kaa's Hunting</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Kaa’s Hunting</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000003">His spots are the joy of the Leopard:</span>
   <span id="f000004">his horns are the<br /></span>
   <span id="f000005">Buffalo’s pride.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006">Be clean,</span>
   <span id="f000007">for the strength of the hunter is known by the<br /></span>
   <span id="f000008">gloss of his hide.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000009">If ye find that the Bullock can toss you,</span>
   <span id="f000010">or the heavy-browed<br /></span>
   <span id="f000011">Sambhur can gore;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000012">Ye need not stop work to inform us:</span>
   <span id="f000013">we knew it ten seasons<br /></span>
   <span id="f000014">before.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000015">Oppress not the cubs of the stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000016">but hail them as Sister<br /></span>
   <span id="f000017">and Brother,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000018">For though they are little and fubsy,</span>
   <span id="f000019">it may be the Bear is<br /></span>
   <span id="f000020">their mother.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000021">“There is none like to me!” says the Cub in the pride of his<br /></span>
   <span id="f000022">earliest kill;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000023">But the jungle is large and the Cub he is small.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Let him<br /></span>
   <span id="f000025">think and be still.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">Maxims of Baloo</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000027">All that is told here happened some time before Mowgli was turned out of the Seeonee Wolf Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000028">or revenged himself on Shere Khan the tiger.</span>
   <span id="f000029">It was in the days when Baloo was teaching him the Law of the Jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000030">The big,</span>
   <span id="f000031">serious,</span>
   <span id="f000032">old brown bear was delighted to have so quick a pupil,</span>
   <span id="f000033">for the young wolves will only learn as much of the Law of the Jungle as applies to their own pack and tribe,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and run away as soon as they can repeat the Hunting Verse – “Feet that make no noise;</span>
   <span id="f000035">eyes that can see in the dark;</span>
   <span id="f000036">ears that can hear the winds in their lairs,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and sharp white teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000038">all these things are the marks of our brothers except Tabaqui the Jackal and the Hyaena whom we hate.” But Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000039">as a man-cub,</span>
   <span id="f000040">had to learn a great deal more than this.</span>
   <span id="f000041">Sometimes Bagheera the Black Panther would come lounging through the jungle to see how his pet was getting on,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and would purr with his head against a tree while Mowgli recited the day’s lesson to Baloo.</span>
   <span id="f000043">The boy could climb almost as well as he could swim,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and swim almost as well as he could run.</span>
   <span id="f000045">So Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000046">the Teacher of the Law,</span>
   <span id="f000047">taught him the Wood and Water Laws:</span>
   <span id="f000048">how to tell a rotten branch from a sound one;</span>
   <span id="f000049">how to speak politely to the wild bees when he came upon a hive of them fifty feet above ground;</span>
   <span id="f000050">what to say to Mang the Bat when he disturbed him in the branches at midday;</span>
   <span id="f000051">and how to warn the water-snakes in the pools before he splashed down among them.</span>
   <span id="f000052">None of the Jungle People like being disturbed,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and all are very ready to fly at an intruder.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000055">too,</span>
   <span id="f000056">Mowgli was taught the Strangers’ Hunting Call,</span>
   <span id="f000057">which must be repeated aloud till it is answered,</span>
   <span id="f000058">whenever one of the Jungle-People hunts outside his own grounds.</span>
   <span id="f000059">It means,</span>
   <span id="f000060">translated,</span>
   <span id="f000061">“Give me leave to hunt here because I am hungry.” And the answer is,</span>
   <span id="f000062">“Hunt then for food,</span>
   <span id="f000063">but not for pleasure.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">All this will show you how much Mowgli had to learn by heart,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and he grew very tired of saying the same thing over a hundred times.</span>
   <span id="f000066">But,</span>
   <span id="f000067">as Baloo said to Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000068">one day when Mowgli had been cuffed and run off in a temper,</span>
   <span id="f000069">“A man’s cub is a man’s cub,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and he must learn all the Law of the Jungle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“But think how small he is,” said the Black Panther,</span>
   <span id="f000072">who would have spoiled Mowgli if he had had his own way.</span>
   <span id="f000073">“How can his little head carry all thy long talk?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“Is there anything in the jungle too little to be killed?</span>
   <span id="f000075">No.</span>
   <span id="f000076">That is why I teach him these things,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and that is why I hit him,</span>
   <span id="f000078">very softly,</span>
   <span id="f000079">when he forgets.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“Softly!</span>
   <span id="f000081">What dost thou know of softness,</span>
   <span id="f000082">old Iron-feet?” Bagheera grunted.</span>
   <span id="f000083">“His face is all bruised today by thy – softness.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Ugh.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“Better he should be bruised from head to foot by me who love him than that he should come to harm through ignorance,” Baloo answered very earnestly.</span>
   <span id="f000086">“I am now teaching him the Master Words of the Jungle that shall protect him with the birds and the Snake People,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and all that hunt on four feet,</span>
   <span id="f000088">except his own pack.</span>
   <span id="f000089">He can now claim protection,</span>
   <span id="f000090">if he will only remember the words,</span>
   <span id="f000091">from all in the jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Is not that worth a little beating?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000094">look to it then that thou dost not kill the man-cub.</span>
   <span id="f000095">He is no tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claws upon.</span>
   <span id="f000096">But what are those Master Words?</span>
   <span id="f000097">I am more likely to give help than to ask it” – Bagheera stretched out one paw and admired the steel-blue,</span>
   <span id="f000098">ripping-chisel talons at the end of it – “still I should like to know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“I will call Mowgli and he shall say them – if he will.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000101">Little Brother!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“My head is ringing like a bee tree,” said a sullen little voice over their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and Mowgli slid down a tree trunk very angry and indignant,</span>
   <span id="f000104">adding as he reached the ground:</span>
   <span id="f000105">“I come for Bagheera and not for thee,</span>
   <span id="f000106">fat old Baloo!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“That is all one to me,” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000108">though he was hurt and grieved.</span>
   <span id="f000109">“Tell Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000110">then,</span>
   <span id="f000111">the Master Words of the Jungle that I have taught thee this day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“Master Words for which people?” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000113">delighted to show off.</span>
   <span id="f000114">“The jungle has many tongues.</span>
   <span id="f000115">I know them all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“A little thou knowest,</span>
   <span id="f000117">but not much.</span>
   <span id="f000118">See,</span>
   <span id="f000119">O Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000120">they never thank their teacher.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Not one small wolfling has ever come back to thank old Baloo for his teachings.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Say the word for the Hunting-People,</span>
   <span id="f000123">then – great scholar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“We be of one blood,</span>
   <span id="f000125">ye and I,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000126">giving the words the Bear accent which all the Hunting People use.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“Good.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Now for the birds.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">Mowgli repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000130">with the Kite’s whistle at the end of the sentence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“Now for the Snake-People,” said Bagheera.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">The answer was a perfectly indescribable hiss,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and Mowgli kicked up his feet behind,</span>
   <span id="f000134">clapped his hands together to applaud himself,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and jumped on to Bagheera’s back,</span>
   <span id="f000136">where he sat sideways,</span>
   <span id="f000137">drumming with his heels on the glossy skin and making the worst faces he could think of at Baloo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“There – there!</span>
   <span id="f000139">That was worth a little bruise,” said the brown bear tenderly.</span>
   <span id="f000140">“Some day thou wilt remember me.” Then he turned aside to tell Bagheera how he had begged the Master Words from Hathi the Wild Elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000141">who knows all about these things,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and how Hathi had taken Mowgli down to a pool to get the Snake Word from a water-snake,</span>
   <span id="f000143">because Baloo could not pronounce it,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and how Mowgli was now reasonably safe against all accidents in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000145">because neither snake,</span>
   <span id="f000146">bird,</span>
   <span id="f000147">nor beast would hurt him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“No one then is to be feared,” Baloo wound up,</span>
   <span id="f000149">patting his big furry stomach with pride.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“Except his own tribe,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000151">under his breath;</span>
   <span id="f000152">and then aloud to Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000153">“Have a care for my ribs,</span>
   <span id="f000154">Little Brother!</span>
   <span id="f000155">What is all this dancing up and down?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">Mowgli had been trying to make himself heard by pulling at Bagheera’s shoulder fur and kicking hard.</span>
   <span id="f000157">When the two listened to him he was shouting at the top of his voice,</span>
   <span id="f000158">“And so I shall have a tribe of my own,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and lead them through the branches all day long.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“What is this new folly,</span>
   <span id="f000161">little dreamer of dreams?” said Bagheera.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and throw branches and dirt at old Baloo,” Mowgli went on.</span>
   <span id="f000164">“They have promised me this.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Ah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Whoof!” Baloo’s big paw scooped Mowgli off Bagheera’s back,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and as the boy lay between the big fore-paws he could see the Bear was angry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“Mowgli,” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000169">“thou hast been talking with the Bandar-log – the Monkey People.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">Mowgli looked at Bagheera to see if the Panther was angry too,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and Bagheera’s eyes were as hard as jade stones.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“Thou hast been with the Monkey People – the gray apes – the people without a law – the eaters of everything.</span>
   <span id="f000173">That is great shame.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“When Baloo hurt my head,” said Mowgli</span>
   <span id="f000175">(he was still on his back),</span>
   <span id="f000176">“I went away,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and the gray apes came down from the trees and had pity on me.</span>
   <span id="f000178">No one else cared.” He snuffled a little.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“The pity of the Monkey People!” Baloo snorted.</span>
   <span id="f000180">“The stillness of the mountain stream!</span>
   <span id="f000181">The cool of the summer sun!</span>
   <span id="f000182">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000183">man-cub?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“And then,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000186">they gave me nuts and pleasant things to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and they – they carried me in their arms up to the top of the trees and said I was their blood brother except that I had no tail,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and should be their leader some day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“They have no leader,” said Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000190">“They lie.</span>
   <span id="f000191">They have always lied.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“They were very kind and bade me come again.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Why have I never been taken among the Monkey People?</span>
   <span id="f000194">They stand on their feet as I do.</span>
   <span id="f000195">They do not hit me with their hard paws.</span>
   <span id="f000196">They play all day.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Let me get up!</span>
   <span id="f000198">Bad Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000199">let me up!</span>
   <span id="f000200">I will play with them again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Listen,</span>
   <span id="f000202">man-cub,” said the Bear,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and his voice rumbled like thunder on a hot night.</span>
   <span id="f000204">“I have taught thee all the Law of the Jungle for all the peoples of the jungle – except the Monkey-Folk who live in the trees.</span>
   <span id="f000205">They have no law.</span>
   <span id="f000206">They are outcasts.</span>
   <span id="f000207">They have no speech of their own,</span>
   <span id="f000208">but use the stolen words which they overhear when they listen,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and peep,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and wait up above in the branches.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Their way is not our way.</span>
   <span id="f000212">They are without leaders.</span>
   <span id="f000213">They have no remembrance.</span>
   <span id="f000214">They boast and chatter and pretend that they are a great people about to do great affairs in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000215">but the falling of a nut turns their minds to laughter and all is forgotten.</span>
   <span id="f000216">We of the jungle have no dealings with them.</span>
   <span id="f000217">We do not drink where the monkeys drink;</span>
   <span id="f000218">we do not go where the monkeys go;</span>
   <span id="f000219">we do not hunt where they hunt;</span>
   <span id="f000220">we do not die where they die.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Hast thou ever heard me speak of the Bandar-log till today?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“No,” said Mowgli in a whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000223">for the forest was very still now Baloo had finished.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“The Jungle-People put them out of their mouths and out of their minds.</span>
   <span id="f000225">They are very many,</span>
   <span id="f000226">evil,</span>
   <span id="f000227">dirty,</span>
   <span id="f000228">shameless,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and they desire,</span>
   <span id="f000230">if they have any fixed desire,</span>
   <span id="f000231">to be noticed by the Jungle People.</span>
   <span id="f000232">But we do not notice them even when they throw nuts and filth on our heads.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">He had hardly spoken when a shower of nuts and twigs spattered down through the branches;</span>
   <span id="f000234">and they could hear coughings and howlings and angry jumpings high up in the air among the thin branches.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“The Monkey-People are forbidden,” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000236">“forbidden to the Jungle-People.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Remember.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“Forbidden,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000239">“but I still think Baloo should have warned thee against them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">“I – I?</span>
   <span id="f000241">How was I to guess he would play with such dirt.</span>
   <span id="f000242">The Monkey People!</span>
   <span id="f000243">Faugh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted away,</span>
   <span id="f000245">taking Mowgli with them.</span>
   <span id="f000246">What Baloo had said about the monkeys was perfectly true.</span>
   <span id="f000247">They belonged to the tree-tops,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and as beasts very seldom look up,</span>
   <span id="f000249">there was no occasion for the monkeys and the Jungle-People to cross each other’s path.</span>
   <span id="f000250">But whenever they found a sick wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000251">or a wounded tiger,</span>
   <span id="f000252">or bear,</span>
   <span id="f000253">the monkeys would torment him,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and would throw sticks and nuts at any beast for fun and in the hope of being noticed.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Then they would howl and shriek senseless songs,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and invite the Jungle-People to climb up their trees and fight them,</span>
   <span id="f000257">or would start furious battles over nothing among themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and leave the dead monkeys where the Jungle-People could see them.</span>
   <span id="f000259">They were always just going to have a leader,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and laws and customs of their own,</span>
   <span id="f000261">but they never did,</span>
   <span id="f000262">because their memories would not hold over from day to day,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and so they compromised things by making up a saying,</span>
   <span id="f000264">“What the Bandar-log think now the jungle will think later,” and that comforted them a great deal.</span>
   <span id="f000265">None of the beasts could reach them,</span>
   <span id="f000266">but on the other hand none of the beasts would notice them,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and that was why they were so pleased when Mowgli came to play with them,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and they heard how angry Baloo was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">They never meant to do any more – the Bandar-log never mean anything at all;</span>
   <span id="f000270">but one of them invented what seemed to him a brilliant idea,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and he told all the others that Mowgli would be a useful person to keep in the tribe,</span>
   <span id="f000272">because he could weave sticks together for protection from the wind;</span>
   <span id="f000273">so,</span>
   <span id="f000274">if they caught him,</span>
   <span id="f000275">they could make him teach them.</span>
   <span id="f000276">Of course Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000277">as a woodcutter’s child,</span>
   <span id="f000278">inherited all sorts of instincts,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and used to make little huts of fallen branches without thinking how he came to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000280">The Monkey-People,</span>
   <span id="f000281">watching in the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000282">considered his play most wonderful.</span>
   <span id="f000283">This time,</span>
   <span id="f000284">they said,</span>
   <span id="f000285">they were really going to have a leader and become the wisest people in the jungle – so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Therefore they followed Baloo and Bagheera and Mowgli through the jungle very quietly till it was time for the midday nap,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000288">who was very much ashamed of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000289">slept between the Panther and the Bear,</span>
   <span id="f000290">resolving to have no more to do with the Monkey People.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">The next thing he remembered was feeling hands on his legs and arms – hard,</span>
   <span id="f000292">strong,</span>
   <span id="f000293">little hands – and then a swash of branches in his face,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and then he was staring down through the swaying boughs as Baloo woke the jungle with his deep cries and Bagheera bounded up the trunk with every tooth bared.</span>
   <span id="f000295">The Bandar-log howled with triumph and scuffled away to the upper branches where Bagheera dared not follow,</span>
   <span id="f000296">shouting:</span>
   <span id="f000297">“He has noticed us!</span>
   <span id="f000298">Bagheera has noticed us.</span>
   <span id="f000299">All the Jungle-People admire us for our skill and our cunning.” Then they began their flight;</span>
   <span id="f000300">and the flight of the Monkey-People through tree-land is one of the things nobody can describe.</span>
   <span id="f000301">They have their regular roads and crossroads,</span>
   <span id="f000302">up hills and down hills,</span>
   <span id="f000303">all laid out from fifty to seventy or a hundred feet above ground,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and by these they can travel even at night if necessary.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Two of the strongest monkeys caught Mowgli under the arms and swung off with him through the treetops,</span>
   <span id="f000306">twenty feet at a bound.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Had they been alone they could have gone twice as fast,</span>
   <span id="f000308">but the boy’s weight held them back.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Sick and giddy as Mowgli was he could not help enjoying the wild rush,</span>
   <span id="f000310">though the glimpses of earth far down below frightened him,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and the terrible check and jerk at the end of the swing over nothing but empty air brought his heart between his teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000312">His escort would rush him up a tree till he felt the thinnest topmost branches crackle and bend under them,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and then with a cough and a whoop would fling themselves into the air outward and downward,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and bring up,</span>
   <span id="f000315">hanging by their hands or their feet to the lower limbs of the next tree.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Sometimes he could see for miles and miles across the still green jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000317">as a man on the top of a mast can see for miles across the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and then the branches and leaves would lash him across the face,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and he and his two guards would be almost down to earth again.</span>
   <span id="f000320">So,</span>
   <span id="f000321">bounding and crashing and whooping and yelling,</span>
   <span id="f000322">the whole tribe of Bandar-log swept along the tree-roads with Mowgli their prisoner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">For a time he was afraid of being dropped.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Then he grew angry but knew better than to struggle,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and then he began to think.</span>
   <span id="f000326">The first thing was to send back word to Baloo and Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000327">for,</span>
   <span id="f000328">at the pace the monkeys were going,</span>
   <span id="f000329">he knew his friends would be left far behind.</span>
   <span id="f000330">It was useless to look down,</span>
   <span id="f000331">for he could only see the topsides of the branches,</span>
   <span id="f000332">so he stared upward and saw,</span>
   <span id="f000333">far away in the blue,</span>
   <span id="f000334">Rann the Kite balancing and wheeling as he kept watch over the jungle waiting for things to die.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Rann saw that the monkeys were carrying something,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and dropped a few hundred yards to find out whether their load was good to eat.</span>
   <span id="f000337">He whistled with surprise when he saw Mowgli being dragged up to a treetop and heard him give the Kite call for – “We be of one blood,</span>
   <span id="f000338">thou and I.” The waves of the branches closed over the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000339">but Rann balanced away to the next tree in time to see the little brown face come up again.</span>
   <span id="f000340">“Mark my trail!” Mowgli shouted.</span>
   <span id="f000341">“Tell Baloo of the Seeonee Pack and Bagheera of the Council Rock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">“In whose name,</span>
   <span id="f000343">Brother?” Rann had never seen Mowgli before,</span>
   <span id="f000344">though of course he had heard of him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000346">the Frog.</span>
   <span id="f000347">Man-cub they call me!</span>
   <span id="f000348">Mark my trail!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">The last words were shrieked as he was being swung through the air,</span>
   <span id="f000350">but Rann nodded and rose up till he looked no bigger than a speck of dust,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and there he hung,</span>
   <span id="f000352">watching with his telescope eyes the swaying of the treetops as Mowgli’s escort whirled along.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">“They never go far,” he said with a chuckle.</span>
   <span id="f000354">“They never do what they set out to do.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Always pecking at new things are the Bandar-log.</span>
   <span id="f000356">This time,</span>
   <span id="f000357">if I have any eye-sight,</span>
   <span id="f000358">they have pecked down trouble for themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000359">for Baloo is no fledgling and Bagheera can,</span>
   <span id="f000360">as I know,</span>
   <span id="f000361">kill more than goats.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">So he rocked on his wings,</span>
   <span id="f000363">his feet gathered up under him,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and waited.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">Meantime,</span>
   <span id="f000366">Baloo and Bagheera were furious with rage and grief.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Bagheera climbed as he had never climbed before,</span>
   <span id="f000368">but the thin branches broke beneath his weight,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and he slipped down,</span>
   <span id="f000370">his claws full of bark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“Why didst thou not warn the man-cub?” he roared to poor Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000372">who had set off at a clumsy trot in the hope of overtaking the monkeys.</span>
   <span id="f000373">“What was the use of half slaying him with blows if thou didst not warn him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“Haste!</span>
   <span id="f000375">O haste!</span>
   <span id="f000376">We – we may catch them yet!” Baloo panted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“At that speed!</span>
   <span id="f000378">It would not tire a wounded cow.</span>
   <span id="f000379">Teacher of the Law – cub-beater – a mile of that rolling to and fro would burst thee open.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Sit still and think!</span>
   <span id="f000381">Make a plan.</span>
   <span id="f000382">This is no time for chasing.</span>
   <span id="f000383">They may drop him if we follow too close.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“Arrula!</span>
   <span id="f000385">Whoo!</span>
   <span id="f000386">They may have dropped him already,</span>
   <span id="f000387">being tired of carrying him.</span>
   <span id="f000388">Who can trust the Bandar-log?</span>
   <span id="f000389">Put dead bats on my head!</span>
   <span id="f000390">Give me black bones to eat!</span>
   <span id="f000391">Roll me into the hives of the wild bees that I may be stung to death,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and bury me with the Hyaena,</span>
   <span id="f000393">for I am most miserable of bears!</span>
   <span id="f000394">Arulala!</span>
   <span id="f000395">Wahooa!</span>
   <span id="f000396">O Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000397">Mowgli!</span>
   <span id="f000398">Why did I not warn thee against the Monkey-Folk instead of breaking thy head?</span>
   <span id="f000399">Now perhaps I may have knocked the day’s lesson out of his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and he will be alone in the jungle without the Master Words.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">Baloo clasped his paws over his ears and rolled to and fro moaning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“At least he gave me all the Words correctly a little time ago,” said Bagheera impatiently.</span>
   <span id="f000403">“Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000404">thou hast neither memory nor respect.</span>
   <span id="f000405">What would the jungle think if I,</span>
   <span id="f000406">the Black Panther,</span>
   <span id="f000407">curled myself up like Ikki the Porcupine,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and howled?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">“What do I care what the jungle thinks?</span>
   <span id="f000410">He may be dead by now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“Unless and until they drop him from the branches in sport,</span>
   <span id="f000412">or kill him out of idleness,</span>
   <span id="f000413">I have no fear for the man-cub.</span>
   <span id="f000414">He is wise and well taught,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and above all he has the eyes that make the Jungle-People afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000416">But</span>
   <span id="f000417">(and it is a great evil)</span>
   <span id="f000418">he is in the power of the Bandar-log,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and they,</span>
   <span id="f000420">because they live in trees,</span>
   <span id="f000421">have no fear of any of our people.” Bagheera licked one forepaw thoughtfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">“Fool that I am!</span>
   <span id="f000423">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000424">fat,</span>
   <span id="f000425">brown,</span>
   <span id="f000426">root-digging fool that I am,” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000427">uncoiling himself with a jerk,</span>
   <span id="f000428">“it is true what Hathi the Wild Elephant says:</span>
   <span id="f000429">`To each his own fear’;</span>
   <span id="f000430">and they,</span>
   <span id="f000431">the Bandar-log,</span>
   <span id="f000432">fear Kaa the Rock Snake.</span>
   <span id="f000433">He can climb as well as they can.</span>
   <span id="f000434">He steals the young monkeys in the night.</span>
   <span id="f000435">The whisper of his name makes their wicked tails cold.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Let us go to Kaa.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“What will he do for us?</span>
   <span id="f000438">He is not of our tribe,</span>
   <span id="f000439">being footless – and with most evil eyes,” said Bagheera.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">“He is very old and very cunning.</span>
   <span id="f000441">Above all,</span>
   <span id="f000442">he is always hungry,” said Baloo hopefully.</span>
   <span id="f000443">“Promise him many goats.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“He sleeps for a full month after he has once eaten.</span>
   <span id="f000445">He may be asleep now,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and even were he awake what if he would rather kill his own goats?” Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000447">who did not know much about Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000448">was naturally suspicious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“Then in that case,</span>
   <span id="f000450">thou and I together,</span>
   <span id="f000451">old hunter,</span>
   <span id="f000452">might make him see reason.” Here Baloo rubbed his faded brown shoulder against the Panther,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and they went off to look for Kaa the Rock Python.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">They found him stretched out on a warm ledge in the afternoon sun,</span>
   <span id="f000455">admiring his beautiful new coat,</span>
   <span id="f000456">for he had been in retirement for the last ten days changing his skin,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and now he was very splendid – darting his big blunt-nosed head along the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and twisting the thirty feet of his body into fantastic knots and curves,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and licking his lips as he thought of his dinner to come.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">“He has not eaten,” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000461">with a grunt of relief,</span>
   <span id="f000462">as soon as he saw the beautifully mottled brown and yellow jacket.</span>
   <span id="f000463">“Be careful,</span>
   <span id="f000464">Bagheera!</span>
   <span id="f000465">He is always a little blind after he has changed his skin,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and very quick to strike.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">Kaa was not a poison snake – in fact he rather despised the poison snakes as cowards – but his strength lay in his hug,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and when he had once lapped his huge coils round anybody there was no more to be said.</span>
   <span id="f000469">“Good hunting!” cried Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000470">sitting up on his haunches.</span>
   <span id="f000471">Like all snakes of his breed Kaa was rather deaf,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and did not hear the call at first.</span>
   <span id="f000473">Then he curled up ready for any accident,</span>
   <span id="f000474">his head lowered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“Good hunting for us all,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000476">“Oho,</span>
   <span id="f000477">Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000478">what dost thou do here?</span>
   <span id="f000479">Good hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000480">Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000481">One of us at least needs food.</span>
   <span id="f000482">Is there any news of game afoot?</span>
   <span id="f000483">A doe now,</span>
   <span id="f000484">or even a young buck?</span>
   <span id="f000485">I am as empty as a dried well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000486">“We are hunting,” said Baloo carelessly.</span>
   <span id="f000487">He knew that you must not hurry Kaa.</span>
   <span id="f000488">He is too big.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">“Give me permission to come with you,” said Kaa.</span>
   <span id="f000490">“A blow more or less is nothing to thee,</span>
   <span id="f000491">Bagheera or Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000492">but I – I have to wait and wait for days in a wood-path and climb half a night on the mere chance of a young ape.</span>
   <span id="f000493">Psshaw!</span>
   <span id="f000494">The branches are not what they were when I was young.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Rotten twigs and dry boughs are they all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“Maybe thy great weight has something to do with the matter,” said Baloo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">“I am a fair length – a fair length,” said Kaa with a little pride.</span>
   <span id="f000498">“But for all that,</span>
   <span id="f000499">it is the fault of this new-grown timber.</span>
   <span id="f000500">I came very near to falling on my last hunt – very near indeed – and the noise of my slipping,</span>
   <span id="f000501">for my tail was not tight wrapped around the tree,</span>
   <span id="f000502">waked the Bandar-log,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and they called me most evil names.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">“Footless,</span>
   <span id="f000505">yellow earth-worm,” said Bagheera under his whiskers,</span>
   <span id="f000506">as though he were trying to remember something.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">“Sssss!</span>
   <span id="f000508">Have they ever called me that?” said Kaa.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">“Something of that kind it was that they shouted to us last moon,</span>
   <span id="f000510">but we never noticed them.</span>
   <span id="f000511">They will say anything – even that thou hast lost all thy teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and wilt not face anything bigger than a kid,</span>
   <span id="f000513">because</span>
   <span id="f000514">(they are indeed shameless,</span>
   <span id="f000515">these Bandar-log)</span>
   <span id="f000516">– because thou art afraid of the he-goat’s horns,” Bagheera went on sweetly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">Now a snake,</span>
   <span id="f000518">especially a wary old python like Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000519">very seldom shows that he is angry,</span>
   <span id="f000520">but Baloo and Bagheera could see the big swallowing muscles on either side of Kaa’s throat ripple and bulge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">“The Bandar-log have shifted their grounds,” he said quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000522">“When I came up into the sun today I heard them whooping among the tree-tops.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“It – it is the Bandar-log that we follow now,” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000524">but the words stuck in his throat,</span>
   <span id="f000525">for that was the first time in his memory that one of the Jungle-People had owned to being interested in the doings of the monkeys.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“Beyond doubt then it is no small thing that takes two such hunters – leaders in their own jungle I am certain – on the trail of the Bandar-log,” Kaa replied courteously,</span>
   <span id="f000527">as he swelled with curiosity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">“Indeed,” Baloo began,</span>
   <span id="f000529">“I am no more than the old and sometimes very foolish Teacher of the Law to the Seeonee wolf-cubs,</span>
   <span id="f000530">and Bagheera here – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">“Is Bagheera,” said the Black Panther,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and his jaws shut with a snap,</span>
   <span id="f000533">for he did not believe in being humble.</span>
   <span id="f000534">“The trouble is this,</span>
   <span id="f000535">Kaa.</span>
   <span id="f000536">Those nut-stealers and pickers of palm leaves have stolen away our man-cub of whom thou hast perhaps heard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">“I heard some news from Ikki</span>
   <span id="f000538">(his quills make him presumptuous)</span>
   <span id="f000539">of a man-thing that was entered into a wolf pack,</span>
   <span id="f000540">but I did not believe.</span>
   <span id="f000541">Ikki is full of stories half heard and very badly told.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“But it is true.</span>
   <span id="f000543">He is such a man-cub as never was,” said Baloo.</span>
   <span id="f000544">“The best and wisest and boldest of man-cubs – my own pupil,</span>
   <span id="f000545">who shall make the name of Baloo famous through all the jungles;</span>
   <span id="f000546">and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000547">I – we – love him,</span>
   <span id="f000548">Kaa.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“Ts!</span>
   <span id="f000550">Ts!” said Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000551">weaving his head to and fro.</span>
   <span id="f000552">“I also have known what love is.</span>
   <span id="f000553">There are tales I could tell that – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">“That need a clear night when we are all well fed to praise properly,” said Bagheera quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000555">“Our man-cub is in the hands of the Bandar-log now,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and we know that of all the Jungle-People they fear Kaa alone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">“They fear me alone.</span>
   <span id="f000558">They have good reason,” said Kaa.</span>
   <span id="f000559">“Chattering,</span>
   <span id="f000560">foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000561">vain – vain,</span>
   <span id="f000562">foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and chattering,</span>
   <span id="f000564">are the monkeys.</span>
   <span id="f000565">But a man-thing in their hands is in no good luck.</span>
   <span id="f000566">They grow tired of the nuts they pick,</span>
   <span id="f000567">and throw them down.</span>
   <span id="f000568">They carry a branch half a day,</span>
   <span id="f000569">meaning to do great things with it,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and then they snap it in two.</span>
   <span id="f000571">That man-thing is not to be envied.</span>
   <span id="f000572">They called me also – `yellow fish’ was it not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000573">“Worm – worm – earth-worm,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000574">“as well as other things which I cannot now say for shame.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">“We must remind them to speak well of their master.</span>
   <span id="f000576">Aaa-ssp!</span>
   <span id="f000577">We must help their wandering memories.</span>
   <span id="f000578">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000579">whither went they with the cub?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“The jungle alone knows.</span>
   <span id="f000581">Toward the sunset,</span>
   <span id="f000582">I believe,” said Baloo.</span>
   <span id="f000583">“We had thought that thou wouldst know,</span>
   <span id="f000584">Kaa.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">“I?</span>
   <span id="f000586">How?</span>
   <span id="f000587">I take them when they come in my way,</span>
   <span id="f000588">but I do not hunt the Bandar-log,</span>
   <span id="f000589">or frogs – or green scum on a water-hole,</span>
   <span id="f000590">for that matter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">“Up,</span>
   <span id="f000592">Up!</span>
   <span id="f000593">Up,</span>
   <span id="f000594">Up!</span>
   <span id="f000595">Hillo!</span>
   <span id="f000596">Illo!</span>
   <span id="f000597">Illo,</span>
   <span id="f000598">look up,</span>
   <span id="f000599">Baloo of the Seeonee Wolf Pack!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">Baloo looked up to see where the voice came from,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and there was Rann the Kite,</span>
   <span id="f000602">sweeping down with the sun shining on the upturned flanges of his wings.</span>
   <span id="f000603">It was near Rann’s bedtime,</span>
   <span id="f000604">but he had ranged all over the jungle looking for the Bear and had missed him in the thick foliage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">“What is it?” said Baloo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">“I have seen Mowgli among the Bandar-log.</span>
   <span id="f000607">He bade me tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000608">I watched.</span>
   <span id="f000609">The Bandar-log have taken him beyond the river to the monkey city – to the Cold Lairs.</span>
   <span id="f000610">They may stay there for a night,</span>
   <span id="f000611">or ten nights,</span>
   <span id="f000612">or an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000613">I have told the bats to watch through the dark time.</span>
   <span id="f000614">That is my message.</span>
   <span id="f000615">Good hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000616">all you below!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">“Full gorge and a deep sleep to you,</span>
   <span id="f000618">Rann,” cried Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000619">“I will remember thee in my next kill,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and put aside the head for thee alone,</span>
   <span id="f000621">O best of kites!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">“It is nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000623">It is nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000624">The boy held the Master Word.</span>
   <span id="f000625">I could have done no less,” and Rann circled up again to his roost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">“He has not forgotten to use his tongue,” said Baloo with a chuckle of pride.</span>
   <span id="f000627">“To think of one so young remembering the Master Word for the birds too while he was being pulled across trees!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000628">“It was most firmly driven into him,” said Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000629">“But I am proud of him,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and now we must go to the Cold Lairs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">They all knew where that place was,</span>
   <span id="f000632">but few of the Jungle People ever went there,</span>
   <span id="f000633">because what they called the Cold Lairs was an old deserted city,</span>
   <span id="f000634">lost and buried in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and beasts seldom use a place that men have once used.</span>
   <span id="f000636">The wild boar will,</span>
   <span id="f000637">but the hunting tribes do not.</span>
   <span id="f000638">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000639">the monkeys lived there as much as they could be said to live anywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and no self-respecting animal would come within eyeshot of it except in times of drought,</span>
   <span id="f000641">when the half-ruined tanks and reservoirs held a little water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000642">“It is half a night’s journey – at full speed,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000643">and Baloo looked very serious.</span>
   <span id="f000644">“I will go as fast as I can,” he said anxiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">“We dare not wait for thee.</span>
   <span id="f000646">Follow,</span>
   <span id="f000647">Baloo.</span>
   <span id="f000648">We must go on the quick-foot – Kaa and I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“Feet or no feet,</span>
   <span id="f000650">I can keep abreast of all thy four,” said Kaa shortly.</span>
   <span id="f000651">Baloo made one effort to hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000652">but had to sit down panting,</span>
   <span id="f000653">and so they left him to come on later,</span>
   <span id="f000654">while Bagheera hurried forward,</span>
   <span id="f000655">at the quick panther-canter.</span>
   <span id="f000656">Kaa said nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000657">but,</span>
   <span id="f000658">strive as Bagheera might,</span>
   <span id="f000659">the huge Rock-python held level with him.</span>
   <span id="f000660">When they came to a hill stream,</span>
   <span id="f000661">Bagheera gained,</span>
   <span id="f000662">because he bounded across while Kaa swam,</span>
   <span id="f000663">his head and two feet of his neck clearing the water,</span>
   <span id="f000664">but on level ground Kaa made up the distance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">“By the Broken Lock that freed me,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000666">when twilight had fallen,</span>
   <span id="f000667">“thou art no slow goer!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">“I am hungry,” said Kaa.</span>
   <span id="f000669">“Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000670">they called me speckled frog.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">“Worm – earth-worm,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and yellow to boot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“All one.</span>
   <span id="f000674">Let us go on,” and Kaa seemed to pour himself along the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000675">finding the shortest road with his steady eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and keeping to it.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

