<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Kaa's Hunting II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">In the Cold Lairs the Monkey-People were not thinking of Mowgli’s friends at all.</span>
   <span id="f000003">They had brought the boy to the Lost City,</span>
   <span id="f000004">and were very much pleased with themselves for the time.</span>
   <span id="f000005">Mowgli had never seen an Indian city before,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and though this was almost a heap of ruins it seemed very wonderful and splendid.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Some king had built it long ago on a little hill.</span>
   <span id="f000008">You could still trace the stone causeways that led up to the ruined gates where the last splinters of wood hung to the worn,</span>
   <span id="f000009">rusted hinges.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Trees had grown into and out of the walls;</span>
   <span id="f000011">the battlements were tumbled down and decayed,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and wild creepers hung out of the windows of the towers on the walls in bushy hanging clumps.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">A great roofless palace crowned the hill,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and the marble of the courtyards and the fountains was split,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and stained with red and green,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and the very cobblestones in the courtyard where the king’s elephants used to live had been thrust up and apart by grasses and young trees.</span>
   <span id="f000017">From the palace you could see the rows and rows of roofless houses that made up the city looking like empty honeycombs filled with blackness;</span>
   <span id="f000018">the shapeless block of stone that had been an idol in the square where four roads met;</span>
   <span id="f000019">the pits and dimples at street corners where the public wells once stood,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and the shattered domes of temples with wild figs sprouting on their sides.</span>
   <span id="f000021">The monkeys called the place their city,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and pretended to despise the Jungle-People because they lived in the forest.</span>
   <span id="f000023">And yet they never knew what the buildings were made for nor how to use them.</span>
   <span id="f000024">They would sit in circles on the hall of the king’s council chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and scratch for fleas and pretend to be men;</span>
   <span id="f000026">or they would run in and out of the roofless houses and collect pieces of plaster and old bricks in a corner,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and forget where they had hidden them,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and fight and cry in scuffling crowds,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and then break off to play up and down the terraces of the king’s garden,</span>
   <span id="f000030">where they would shake the rose trees and the oranges in sport to see the fruit and flowers fall.</span>
   <span id="f000031">They explored all the passages and dark tunnels in the palace and the hundreds of little dark rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000032">but they never remembered what they had seen and what they had not;</span>
   <span id="f000033">and so drifted about in ones and twos or crowds telling each other that they were doing as men did.</span>
   <span id="f000034">They drank at the tanks and made the water all muddy,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and then they fought over it,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and then they would all rush together in mobs and shout:</span>
   <span id="f000037">“There is no one in the jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle as the Bandar-log.” Then all would begin again till they grew tired of the city and went back to the tree-tops,</span>
   <span id="f000038">hoping the Jungle-People would notice them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000040">who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000041">did not like or understand this kind of life.</span>
   <span id="f000042">The monkeys dragged him into the Cold Lairs late in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and instead of going to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000044">as Mowgli would have done after a long journey,</span>
   <span id="f000045">they joined hands and danced about and sang their foolish songs.</span>
   <span id="f000046">One of the monkeys made a speech and told his companions that Mowgli’s capture marked a new thing in the history of the Bandar-log,</span>
   <span id="f000047">for Mowgli was going to show them how to weave sticks and canes together as a protection against rain and cold.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Mowgli picked up some creepers and began to work them in and out,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and the monkeys tried to imitate;</span>
   <span id="f000050">but in a very few minutes they lost interest and began to pull their friends’ tails or jump up and down on all fours,</span>
   <span id="f000051">coughing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“I wish to eat,” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“I am a stranger in this part of the jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Bring me food,</span>
   <span id="f000055">or give me leave to hunt here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and wild pawpaws.</span>
   <span id="f000057">But they fell to fighting on the road,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and it was too much trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Mowgli was sore and angry as well as hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and he roamed through the empty city giving the Strangers’ Hunting Call from time to time,</span>
   <span id="f000061">but no one answered him,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and Mowgli felt that he had reached a very bad place indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000063">“All that Baloo has said about the Bandar-log is true,” he thought to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000064">“They have no Law,</span>
   <span id="f000065">no Hunting Call,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and no leaders – nothing but foolish words and little picking thievish hands.</span>
   <span id="f000067">So if I am starved or killed here,</span>
   <span id="f000068">it will be all my own fault.</span>
   <span id="f000069">But I must try to return to my own jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000070">Baloo will surely beat me,</span>
   <span id="f000071">but that is better than chasing silly rose leaves with the Bandar-log.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">No sooner had he walked to the city wall than the monkeys pulled him back,</span>
   <span id="f000073">telling him that he did not know how happy he was,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and pinching him to make him grateful.</span>
   <span id="f000075">He set his teeth and said nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000076">but went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace above the red sandstone reservoirs that were half-full of rain water.</span>
   <span id="f000077">There was a ruined summer-house of white marble in the center of the terrace,</span>
   <span id="f000078">built for queens dead a hundred years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000079">The domed roof had half fallen in and blocked up the underground passage from the palace by which the queens used to enter.</span>
   <span id="f000080">But the walls were made of screens of marble tracery – beautiful milk-white fretwork,</span>
   <span id="f000081">set with agates and cornelians and jasper and lapis lazuli,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and as the moon came up behind the hill it shone through the open work,</span>
   <span id="f000083">casting shadows on the ground like black velvet embroidery.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Sore,</span>
   <span id="f000085">sleepy,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and hungry as he was,</span>
   <span id="f000087">Mowgli could not help laughing when the Bandar-log began,</span>
   <span id="f000088">twenty at a time,</span>
   <span id="f000089">to tell him how great and wise and strong and gentle they were,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and how foolish he was to wish to leave them.</span>
   <span id="f000091">“We are great.</span>
   <span id="f000092">We are free.</span>
   <span id="f000093">We are wonderful.</span>
   <span id="f000094">We are the most wonderful people in all the jungle!</span>
   <span id="f000095">We all say so,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and so it must be true,” they shouted.</span>
   <span id="f000097">“Now as you are a new listener and can carry our words back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice us in future,</span>
   <span id="f000098">we will tell you all about our most excellent selves.” Mowgli made no objection,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and the monkeys gathered by hundreds and hundreds on the terrace to listen to their own speakers singing the praises of the Bandar-log,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and whenever a speaker stopped for want of breath they would all shout together:</span>
   <span id="f000101">“This is true;</span>
   <span id="f000102">we all say so.” Mowgli nodded and blinked,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and said “Yes” when they asked him a question,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and his head spun with the noise.</span>
   <span id="f000105">“Tabaqui the Jackal must have bitten all these people,” he said to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000106">“and now they have madness.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Certainly this is dewanee,</span>
   <span id="f000108">the madness.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Do they never go to sleep?</span>
   <span id="f000110">Now there is a cloud coming to cover that moon.</span>
   <span id="f000111">If it were only a big enough cloud I might try to run away in the darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000112">But I am tired.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">That same cloud was being watched by two good friends in the ruined ditch below the city wall,</span>
   <span id="f000114">for Bagheera and Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000115">knowing well how dangerous the Monkey-People were in large numbers,</span>
   <span id="f000116">did not wish to run any risks.</span>
   <span id="f000117">The monkeys never fight unless they are a hundred to one,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and few in the jungle care for those odds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“I will go to the west wall,” Kaa whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000120">“and come down swiftly with the slope of the ground in my favor.</span>
   <span id="f000121">They will not throw themselves upon my back in their hundreds,</span>
   <span id="f000122">but – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“I know it,” said Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000124">“Would that Baloo were here,</span>
   <span id="f000125">but we must do what we can.</span>
   <span id="f000126">When that cloud covers the moon I shall go to the terrace.</span>
   <span id="f000127">They hold some sort of council there over the boy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Good hunting,” said Kaa grimly,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and glided away to the west wall.</span>
   <span id="f000130">That happened to be the least ruined of any,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and the big snake was delayed awhile before he could find a way up the stones.</span>
   <span id="f000132">The cloud hid the moon,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and as Mowgli wondered what would come next he heard Bagheera’s light feet on the terrace.</span>
   <span id="f000134">The Black Panther had raced up the slope almost without a sound and was striking – he knew better than to waste time in biting – right and left among the monkeys,</span>
   <span id="f000135">who were seated round Mowgli in circles fifty and sixty deep.</span>
   <span id="f000136">There was a howl of fright and rage,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and then as Bagheera tripped on the rolling kicking bodies beneath him,</span>
   <span id="f000138">a monkey shouted:</span>
   <span id="f000139">“There is only one here!</span>
   <span id="f000140">Kill him!</span>
   <span id="f000141">Kill.” A scuffling mass of monkeys,</span>
   <span id="f000142">biting,</span>
   <span id="f000143">scratching,</span>
   <span id="f000144">tearing,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and pulling,</span>
   <span id="f000146">closed over Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000147">while five or six laid hold of Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000148">dragged him up the wall of the summerhouse and pushed him through the hole of the broken dome.</span>
   <span id="f000149">A man-trained boy would have been badly bruised,</span>
   <span id="f000150">for the fall was a good fifteen feet,</span>
   <span id="f000151">but Mowgli fell as Baloo had taught him to fall,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and landed on his feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“Stay there,” shouted the monkeys,</span>
   <span id="f000154">“till we have killed thy friends,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and later we will play with thee – if the Poison-People leave thee alive.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“We be of one blood,</span>
   <span id="f000157">ye and I,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000158">quickly giving the Snake’s Call.</span>
   <span id="f000159">He could hear rustling and hissing in the rubbish all round him and gave the Call a second time,</span>
   <span id="f000160">to make sure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“Even ssso!</span>
   <span id="f000162">Down hoods all!” said half a dozen low voices</span>
   <span id="f000163">(every ruin in India becomes sooner or later a dwelling place of snakes,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and the old summerhouse was alive with cobras).</span>
   <span id="f000165">“Stand still,</span>
   <span id="f000166">Little Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000167">for thy feet may do us harm.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">Mowgli stood as quietly as he could,</span>
   <span id="f000169">peering through the open work and listening to the furious din of the fight round the Black Panther – the yells and chatterings and scufflings,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and Bagheera’s deep,</span>
   <span id="f000171">hoarse cough as he backed and bucked and twisted and plunged under the heaps of his enemies.</span>
   <span id="f000172">For the first time since he was born,</span>
   <span id="f000173">Bagheera was fighting for his life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“Baloo must be at hand;</span>
   <span id="f000175">Bagheera would not have come alone,” Mowgli thought.</span>
   <span id="f000176">And then he called aloud:</span>
   <span id="f000177">“To the tank,</span>
   <span id="f000178">Bagheera.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Roll to the water tanks.</span>
   <span id="f000180">Roll and plunge!</span>
   <span id="f000181">Get to the water!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">Bagheera heard,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and the cry that told him Mowgli was safe gave him new courage.</span>
   <span id="f000184">He worked his way desperately,</span>
   <span id="f000185">inch by inch,</span>
   <span id="f000186">straight for the reservoirs,</span>
   <span id="f000187">halting in silence.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Then from the ruined wall nearest the jungle rose up the rumbling war-shout of Baloo.</span>
   <span id="f000189">The old Bear had done his best,</span>
   <span id="f000190">but he could not come before.</span>
   <span id="f000191">“Bagheera,” he shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000192">“I am here.</span>
   <span id="f000193">I climb!</span>
   <span id="f000194">I haste!</span>
   <span id="f000195">Ahuwora!</span>
   <span id="f000196">The stones slip under my feet!</span>
   <span id="f000197">Wait my coming,</span>
   <span id="f000198">O most infamous Bandar-log!” He panted up the terrace only to disappear to the head in a wave of monkeys,</span>
   <span id="f000199">but he threw himself squarely on his haunches,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and,</span>
   <span id="f000201">spreading out his forepaws,</span>
   <span id="f000202">hugged as many as he could hold,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and then began to hit with a regular bat-bat-bat,</span>
   <span id="f000204">like the flipping strokes of a paddle wheel.</span>
   <span id="f000205">A crash and a splash told Mowgli that Bagheera had fought his way to the tank where the monkeys could not follow.</span>
   <span id="f000206">The Panther lay gasping for breath,</span>
   <span id="f000207">his head just out of the water,</span>
   <span id="f000208">while the monkeys stood three deep on the red steps,</span>
   <span id="f000209">dancing up and down with rage,</span>
   <span id="f000210">ready to spring upon him from all sides if he came out to help Baloo.</span>
   <span id="f000211">It was then that Bagheera lifted up his dripping chin,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and in despair gave the Snake’s Call for protection – “We be of one blood,</span>
   <span id="f000213">ye and I” – for he believed that Kaa had turned tail at the last minute.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Even Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000215">half smothered under the monkeys on the edge of the terrace,</span>
   <span id="f000216">could not help chuckling as he heard the Black Panther asking for help.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">Kaa had only just worked his way over the west wall,</span>
   <span id="f000218">landing with a wrench that dislodged a coping stone into the ditch.</span>
   <span id="f000219">He had no intention of losing any advantage of the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and coiled and uncoiled himself once or twice,</span>
   <span id="f000221">to be sure that every foot of his long body was in working order.</span>
   <span id="f000222">All that while the fight with Baloo went on,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and the monkeys yelled in the tank round Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and Mang the Bat,</span>
   <span id="f000225">flying to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000226">carried the news of the great battle over the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000227">till even Hathi the Wild Elephant trumpeted,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and,</span>
   <span id="f000229">far away,</span>
   <span id="f000230">scattered bands of the Monkey-Folk woke and came leaping along the tree-roads to help their comrades in the Cold Lairs,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and the noise of the fight roused all the day birds for miles round.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Then Kaa came straight,</span>
   <span id="f000233">quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and anxious to kill.</span>
   <span id="f000235">The fighting strength of a python is in the driving blow of his head backed by all the strength and weight of his body.</span>
   <span id="f000236">If you can imagine a lance,</span>
   <span id="f000237">or a battering ram,</span>
   <span id="f000238">or a hammer weighing nearly half a ton driven by a cool,</span>
   <span id="f000239">quiet mind living in the handle of it,</span>
   <span id="f000240">you can roughly imagine what Kaa was like when he fought.</span>
   <span id="f000241">A python four or five feet long can knock a man down if he hits him fairly in the chest,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and Kaa was thirty feet long,</span>
   <span id="f000243">as you know.</span>
   <span id="f000244">His first stroke was delivered into the heart of the crowd round Baloo.</span>
   <span id="f000245">It was sent home with shut mouth in silence,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and there was no need of a second.</span>
   <span id="f000247">The monkeys scattered with cries of – “Kaa!</span>
   <span id="f000248">It is Kaa!</span>
   <span id="f000249">Run!</span>
   <span id="f000250">Run!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">Generations of monkeys had been scared into good behavior by the stories their elders told them of Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000252">the night thief,</span>
   <span id="f000253">who could slip along the branches as quietly as moss grows,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and steal away the strongest monkey that ever lived;</span>
   <span id="f000255">of old Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000256">who could make himself look so like a dead branch or a rotten stump that the wisest were deceived,</span>
   <span id="f000257">till the branch caught them.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Kaa was everything that the monkeys feared in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000259">for none of them knew the limits of his power,</span>
   <span id="f000260">none of them could look him in the face,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and none had ever come alive out of his hug.</span>
   <span id="f000262">And so they ran,</span>
   <span id="f000263">stammering with terror,</span>
   <span id="f000264">to the walls and the roofs of the houses,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and Baloo drew a deep breath of relief.</span>
   <span id="f000266">His fur was much thicker than Bagheera’s,</span>
   <span id="f000267">but he had suffered sorely in the fight.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Then Kaa opened his mouth for the first time and spoke one long hissing word,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and the far-away monkeys,</span>
   <span id="f000270">hurrying to the defense of the Cold Lairs,</span>
   <span id="f000271">stayed where they were,</span>
   <span id="f000272">cowering,</span>
   <span id="f000273">till the loaded branches bent and crackled under them.</span>
   <span id="f000274">The monkeys on the walls and the empty houses stopped their cries,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and in the stillness that fell upon the city Mowgli heard Bagheera shaking his wet sides as he came up from the tank.</span>
   <span id="f000276">Then the clamor broke out again.</span>
   <span id="f000277">The monkeys leaped higher up the walls.</span>
   <span id="f000278">They clung around the necks of the big stone idols and shrieked as they skipped along the battlements,</span>
   <span id="f000279">while Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000280">dancing in the summerhouse,</span>
   <span id="f000281">put his eye to the screenwork and hooted owl-fashion between his front teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000282">to show his derision and contempt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">“Get the man-cub out of that trap;</span>
   <span id="f000284">I can do no more,” Bagheera gasped.</span>
   <span id="f000285">“Let us take the man-cub and go.</span>
   <span id="f000286">They may attack again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“They will not move till I order them.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Stay you sssso!” Kaa hissed,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and the city was silent once more.</span>
   <span id="f000290">“I could not come before,</span>
   <span id="f000291">Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000292">but I think I heard thee call” – this was to Bagheera.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“I – I may have cried out in the battle,” Bagheera answered.</span>
   <span id="f000294">"Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000295">art thou hurt?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“I am not sure that they did not pull me into a hundred little bearlings,” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000297">gravely shaking one leg after the other.</span>
   <span id="f000298">“Wow!</span>
   <span id="f000299">I am sore.</span>
   <span id="f000300">Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000301">we owe thee,</span>
   <span id="f000302">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000303">our lives – Bagheera and I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“No matter.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Where is the manling?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“Here,</span>
   <span id="f000307">in a trap.</span>
   <span id="f000308">I cannot climb out,” cried Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000309">The curve of the broken dome was above his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">“Take him away.</span>
   <span id="f000311">He dances like Mao the Peacock.</span>
   <span id="f000312">He will crush our young,” said the cobras inside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“Hah!” said Kaa with a chuckle,</span>
   <span id="f000314">“he has friends everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000315">this manling.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Stand back,</span>
   <span id="f000317">manling.</span>
   <span id="f000318">And hide you,</span>
   <span id="f000319">O Poison People.</span>
   <span id="f000320">I break down the wall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">Kaa looked carefully till he found a discolored crack in the marble tracery showing a weak spot,</span>
   <span id="f000322">made two or three light taps with his head to get the distance,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and then lifting up six feet of his body clear of the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000324">sent home half a dozen full-power smashing blows,</span>
   <span id="f000325">nose-first.</span>
   <span id="f000326">The screen-work broke and fell away in a cloud of dust and rubbish,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and Mowgli leaped through the opening and flung himself between Baloo and Bagheera – an arm around each big neck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“Art thou hurt?” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000329">hugging him softly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“I am sore,</span>
   <span id="f000331">hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and not a little bruised.</span>
   <span id="f000333">But,</span>
   <span id="f000334">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000335">they have handled ye grievously,</span>
   <span id="f000336">my Brothers!</span>
   <span id="f000337">Ye bleed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">“Others also,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000339">licking his lips and looking at the monkey-dead on the terrace and round the tank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">“It is nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000341">it is nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000342">if thou art safe,</span>
   <span id="f000343">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000344">my pride of all little frogs!” whimpered Baloo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“Of that we shall judge later,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000346">in a dry voice that Mowgli did not at all like.</span>
   <span id="f000347">“But here is Kaa to whom we owe the battle and thou owest thy life.</span>
   <span id="f000348">Thank him according to our customs,</span>
   <span id="f000349">Mowgli.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">Mowgli turned and saw the great Python’s head swaying a foot above his own.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“So this is the manling,” said Kaa.</span>
   <span id="f000352">“Very soft is his skin,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and he is not unlike the Bandar-log.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Have a care,</span>
   <span id="f000355">manling,</span>
   <span id="f000356">that I do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly changed my coat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“We be one blood,</span>
   <span id="f000358">thou and I,” Mowgli answered.</span>
   <span id="f000359">“I take my life from thee tonight.</span>
   <span id="f000360">My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000361">O Kaa.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">“All thanks,</span>
   <span id="f000363">Little Brother,” said Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000364">though his eyes twinkled.</span>
   <span id="f000365">“And what may so bold a hunter kill?</span>
   <span id="f000366">I ask that I may follow when next he goes abroad.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">“I kill nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000368">– I am too little,</span>
   <span id="f000369">– but I drive goats toward such as can use them.</span>
   <span id="f000370">When thou art empty come to me and see if I speak the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000371">I have some skill in these [he held out his hands],</span>
   <span id="f000372">and if ever thou art in a trap,</span>
   <span id="f000373">I may pay the debt which I owe to thee,</span>
   <span id="f000374">to Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and to Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000376">here.</span>
   <span id="f000377">Good hunting to ye all,</span>
   <span id="f000378">my masters.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“Well said,” growled Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000380">for Mowgli had returned thanks very prettily.</span>
   <span id="f000381">The Python dropped his head lightly for a minute on Mowgli’s shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000382">“A brave heart and a courteous tongue,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000383">“They shall carry thee far through the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000384">manling.</span>
   <span id="f000385">But now go hence quickly with thy friends.</span>
   <span id="f000386">Go and sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000387">for the moon sets,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and what follows it is not well that thou shouldst see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">The moon was sinking behind the hills and the lines of trembling monkeys huddled together on the walls and battlements looked like ragged shaky fringes of things.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Baloo went down to the tank for a drink and Bagheera began to put his fur in order,</span>
   <span id="f000391">as Kaa glided out into the center of the terrace and brought his jaws together with a ringing snap that drew all the monkeys’ eyes upon him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“The moon sets,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000393">“Is there yet light enough to see?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">From the walls came a moan like the wind in the tree-tops – “We see,</span>
   <span id="f000395">O Kaa.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“Good.</span>
   <span id="f000397">Begins now the dance – the Dance of the Hunger of Kaa.</span>
   <span id="f000398">Sit still and watch.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">He turned twice or thrice in a big circle,</span>
   <span id="f000400">weaving his head from right to left.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Then he began making loops and figures of eight with his body,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and soft,</span>
   <span id="f000403">oozy triangles that melted into squares and five-sided figures,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and coiled mounds,</span>
   <span id="f000405">never resting,</span>
   <span id="f000406">never hurrying,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and never stopping his low humming song.</span>
   <span id="f000408">It grew darker and darker,</span>
   <span id="f000409">till at last the dragging,</span>
   <span id="f000410">shifting coils disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000411">but they could hear the rustle of the scales.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">Baloo and Bagheera stood still as stone,</span>
   <span id="f000413">growling in their throats,</span>
   <span id="f000414">their neck hair bristling,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and Mowgli watched and wondered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">“Bandar-log,” said the voice of Kaa at last,</span>
   <span id="f000417">“can ye stir foot or hand without my order?</span>
   <span id="f000418">Speak!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“Without thy order we cannot stir foot or hand,</span>
   <span id="f000420">O Kaa!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">“Good!</span>
   <span id="f000422">Come all one pace nearer to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">The lines of the monkeys swayed forward helplessly,</span>
   <span id="f000424">and Baloo and Bagheera took one stiff step forward with them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“Nearer!” hissed Kaa,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and they all moved again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">Mowgli laid his hands on Baloo and Bagheera to get them away,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and the two great beasts started as though they had been waked from a dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">“Keep thy hand on my shoulder,” Bagheera whispered.</span>
   <span id="f000430">“Keep it there,</span>
   <span id="f000431">or I must go back – must go back to Kaa.</span>
   <span id="f000432">Aah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“It is only old Kaa making circles on the dust,” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000434">“Let us go.” And the three slipped off through a gap in the walls to the jungle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">“Whoof!” said Baloo,</span>
   <span id="f000436">when he stood under the still trees again.</span>
   <span id="f000437">“Never more will I make an ally of Kaa,” and he shook himself all over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">“He knows more than we,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000439">trembling.</span>
   <span id="f000440">“In a little time,</span>
   <span id="f000441">had I stayed,</span>
   <span id="f000442">I should have walked down his throat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“Many will walk by that road before the moon rises again,” said Baloo.</span>
   <span id="f000444">“He will have good hunting – after his own fashion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“But what was the meaning of it all?” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000446">who did not know anything of a python’s powers of fascination.</span>
   <span id="f000447">“I saw no more than a big snake making foolish circles till the dark came.</span>
   <span id="f000448">And his nose was all sore.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000450">Ho!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“Mowgli,” said Bagheera angrily,</span>
   <span id="f000452">“his nose was sore on thy account,</span>
   <span id="f000453">as my ears and sides and paws,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and Baloo’s neck and shoulders are bitten on thy account.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Neither Baloo nor Bagheera will be able to hunt with pleasure for many days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“It is nothing,” said Baloo;</span>
   <span id="f000457">“we have the man-cub again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">“True,</span>
   <span id="f000459">but he has cost us heavily in time which might have been spent in good hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000460">in wounds,</span>
   <span id="f000461">in hair – I am half plucked along my back – and last of all,</span>
   <span id="f000462">in honor.</span>
   <span id="f000463">For,</span>
   <span id="f000464">remember,</span>
   <span id="f000465">Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000466">I,</span>
   <span id="f000467">who am the Black Panther,</span>
   <span id="f000468">was forced to call upon Kaa for protection,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and Baloo and I were both made stupid as little birds by the Hunger Dance.</span>
   <span id="f000470">All this,</span>
   <span id="f000471">man-cub,</span>
   <span id="f000472">came of thy playing with the Bandar-log.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“True,</span>
   <span id="f000474">it is true,” said Mowgli sorrowfully.</span>
   <span id="f000475">“I am an evil man-cub,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and my stomach is sad in me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">“Mf!</span>
   <span id="f000478">What says the Law of the Jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000479">Baloo?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">Baloo did not wish to bring Mowgli into any more trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000481">but he could not tamper with the Law,</span>
   <span id="f000482">so he mumbled:</span>
   <span id="f000483">“Sorrow never stays punishment.</span>
   <span id="f000484">But remember,</span>
   <span id="f000485">Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000486">he is very little.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“I will remember.</span>
   <span id="f000488">But he has done mischief,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and blows must be dealt now.</span>
   <span id="f000490">Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000491">hast thou anything to say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">“Nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000493">I did wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Baloo and thou are wounded.</span>
   <span id="f000495">It is just.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">Bagheera gave him half a dozen love-taps from a panther’s point of view</span>
   <span id="f000497">(they would hardly have waked one of his own cubs),</span>
   <span id="f000498">but for a seven-year-old boy they amounted to as severe a beating as you could wish to avoid.</span>
   <span id="f000499">When it was all over Mowgli sneezed,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and picked himself up without a word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">“Now,” said Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000502">“jump on my back,</span>
   <span id="f000503">Little Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000504">and we will go home.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">One of the beauties of Jungle Law is that punishment settles all scores.</span>
   <span id="f000506">There is no nagging afterward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">Mowgli laid his head down on Bagheera’s back and slept so deeply that he never waked when he was put down in the home-cave.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000508">Road-Song of the Bandar-Log</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000509">Here we go in a flung festoon,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000510">Half-way up to the jealous moon!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000511">Don’t you envy our pranceful bands?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000512">Don’t you wish you had extra hands?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000513">Wouldn’t you like if your tails were – so – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000514">Curved in the shape of a Cupid’s bow?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000515">Now you’re angry,</span>
   <span id="f000516">but – never mind,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000517">Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000518">thy tail hangs down behind!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">Here we sit in a branchy row,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000520">Thinking of beautiful things we know;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000521">Dreaming of deeds that we mean to do,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000522">All complete,</span>
   <span id="f000523">in a minute or two – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000524">Something noble and wise and good,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000525">Done by merely wishing we could.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000526">We’ve forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000527">but – never mind,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000528">Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000529">thy tail hangs down behind!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">All the talk we ever have heard<br /></span>
   <span id="f000531">Uttered by bat or beast or bird – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000532">Hide or fin or scale or feather – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000533">Jabber it quickly and all together!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000534">Excellent!</span>
   <span id="f000535">Wonderful!</span>
   <span id="f000536">Once again!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">Now we are talking just like men!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000538">Let’s pretend we are …</span>
   <span id="f000539">never mind,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000540">Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000541">thy tail hangs down behind!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000542">This is the way of the Monkey-kind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">Then join our leaping lines that scumfish through the pines,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000544">That rocket by where,</span>
   <span id="f000545">light and high,</span>
   <span id="f000546">the wild grape swings.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000547">By the rubbish in our wake,</span>
   <span id="f000548">and the noble noise we make,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000549">Be sure,</span>
   <span id="f000550">be sure,</span>
   <span id="f000551">we’re going to do some splendid things!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

