<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">"Tiger! Tiger!"</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">What of the hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000003">hunter bold?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000004">Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000005">the watch was long and cold.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006">What of the quarry ye went to kill?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000007">Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000008">he crops in the jungle still.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000009">Where is the power that made your pride?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000010">Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000011">it ebbs from my flank and side.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000012">Where is the haste that ye hurry by?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000013">Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000014">I go to my lair – to die.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000015">Now we must go back to the first tale.</span>
   <span id="f000016">When Mowgli left the wolf’s cave after the fight with the Pack at the Council Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000017">he went down to the plowed lands where the villagers lived,</span>
   <span id="f000018">but he would not stop there because it was too near to the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and he knew that he had made at least one bad enemy at the Council.</span>
   <span id="f000020">So he hurried on,</span>
   <span id="f000021">keeping to the rough road that ran down the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and followed it at a steady jog-trot for nearly twenty miles,</span>
   <span id="f000023">till he came to a country that he did not know.</span>
   <span id="f000024">The valley opened out into a great plain dotted over with rocks and cut up by ravines.</span>
   <span id="f000025">At one end stood a little village,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and at the other the thick jungle came down in a sweep to the grazing-grounds,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and stopped there as though it had been cut off with a hoe.</span>
   <span id="f000028">All over the plain,</span>
   <span id="f000029">cattle and buffaloes were grazing,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and when the little boys in charge of the herds saw Mowgli they shouted and ran away,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and the yellow pariah dogs that hang about every Indian village barked.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Mowgli walked on,</span>
   <span id="f000033">for he was feeling hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and when he came to the village gate he saw the big thorn-bush that was drawn up before the gate at twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000035">pushed to one side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“Umph!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000037">for he had come across more than one such barricade in his night rambles after things to eat.</span>
   <span id="f000038">“So men are afraid of the People of the Jungle here also.” He sat down by the gate,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and when a man came out he stood up,</span>
   <span id="f000040">opened his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and pointed down it to show that he wanted food.</span>
   <span id="f000042">The man stared,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and ran back up the one street of the village shouting for the priest,</span>
   <span id="f000044">who was a big,</span>
   <span id="f000045">fat man dressed in white,</span>
   <span id="f000046">with a red and yellow mark on his forehead.</span>
   <span id="f000047">The priest came to the gate,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and with him at least a hundred people,</span>
   <span id="f000049">who stared and talked and shouted and pointed at Mowgli.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“They have no manners,</span>
   <span id="f000051">these Men Folk,” said Mowgli to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000052">“Only the gray ape would behave as they do.” So he threw back his long hair and frowned at the crowd.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“What is there to be afraid of?” said the priest.</span>
   <span id="f000054">“Look at the marks on his arms and legs.</span>
   <span id="f000055">They are the bites of wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000056">He is but a wolf-child run away from the jungle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000058">in playing together,</span>
   <span id="f000059">the cubs had often nipped Mowgli harder than they intended,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and there were white scars all over his arms and legs.</span>
   <span id="f000061">But he would have been the last person in the world to call these bites,</span>
   <span id="f000062">for he knew what real biting meant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“Arre!</span>
   <span id="f000064">Arre!” said two or three women together.</span>
   <span id="f000065">“To be bitten by wolves,</span>
   <span id="f000066">poor child!</span>
   <span id="f000067">He is a handsome boy.</span>
   <span id="f000068">He has eyes like red fire.</span>
   <span id="f000069">By my honor,</span>
   <span id="f000070">Messua,</span>
   <span id="f000071">he is not unlike thy boy that was taken by the tiger.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">“Let me look,” said a woman with heavy copper rings on her wrists and ankles,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and she peered at Mowgli under the palm of her hand.</span>
   <span id="f000074">“Indeed he is not.</span>
   <span id="f000075">He is thinner,</span>
   <span id="f000076">but he has the very look of my boy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">The priest was a clever man,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and he knew that Messua was wife to the richest villager in the place.</span>
   <span id="f000079">So he looked up at the sky for a minute and said solemnly:</span>
   <span id="f000080">“What the jungle has taken the jungle has restored.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Take the boy into thy house,</span>
   <span id="f000082">my sister,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and forget not to honor the priest who sees so far into the lives of men.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">“By the Bull that bought me,” said Mowgli to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000085">“but all this talking is like another looking-over by the Pack!</span>
   <span id="f000086">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000087">if I am a man,</span>
   <span id="f000088">a man I must become.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">The crowd parted as the woman beckoned Mowgli to her hut,</span>
   <span id="f000090">where there was a red lacquered bedstead,</span>
   <span id="f000091">a great earthen grain chest with funny raised patterns on it,</span>
   <span id="f000092">half a dozen copper cooking pots,</span>
   <span id="f000093">an image of a Hindu god in a little alcove,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and on the wall a real looking glass,</span>
   <span id="f000095">such as they sell at the country fairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">She gave him a long drink of milk and some bread,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and then she laid her hand on his head and looked into his eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000098">for she thought perhaps that he might be her real son come back from the jungle where the tiger had taken him.</span>
   <span id="f000099">So she said,</span>
   <span id="f000100">“Nathoo,</span>
   <span id="f000101">O Nathoo!” Mowgli did not show that he knew the name.</span>
   <span id="f000102">“Dost thou not remember the day when I gave thee thy new shoes?” She touched his foot,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and it was almost as hard as horn.</span>
   <span id="f000104">“No,” she said sorrowfully,</span>
   <span id="f000105">“those feet have never worn shoes,</span>
   <span id="f000106">but thou art very like my Nathoo,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and thou shalt be my son.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">Mowgli was uneasy,</span>
   <span id="f000109">because he had never been under a roof before.</span>
   <span id="f000110">But as he looked at the thatch,</span>
   <span id="f000111">he saw that he could tear it out any time if he wanted to get away,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and that the window had no fastenings.</span>
   <span id="f000113">“What is the good of a man,” he said to himself at last,</span>
   <span id="f000114">“if he does not understand man’s talk?</span>
   <span id="f000115">Now I am as silly and dumb as a man would be with us in the jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000116">I must speak their talk.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">It was not for fun that he had learned while he was with the wolves to imitate the challenge of bucks in the jungle and the grunt of the little wild pig.</span>
   <span id="f000118">So,</span>
   <span id="f000119">as soon as Messua pronounced a word Mowgli would imitate it almost perfectly,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and before dark he had learned the names of many things in the hut.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">There was a difficulty at bedtime,</span>
   <span id="f000122">because Mowgli would not sleep under anything that looked so like a panther trap as that hut,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and when they shut the door he went through the window.</span>
   <span id="f000124">“Give him his will,” said Messua’s husband.</span>
   <span id="f000125">“Remember he can never till now have slept on a bed.</span>
   <span id="f000126">If he is indeed sent in the place of our son he will not run away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">So Mowgli stretched himself in some long,</span>
   <span id="f000128">clean grass at the edge of the field,</span>
   <span id="f000129">but before he had closed his eyes a soft gray nose poked him under the chin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“Phew!” said Gray Brother</span>
   <span id="f000131">(he was the eldest of Mother Wolf’s cubs).</span>
   <span id="f000132">“This is a poor reward for following thee twenty miles.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Thou smellest of wood smoke and cattle – altogether like a man already.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Wake,</span>
   <span id="f000135">Little Brother;</span>
   <span id="f000136">I bring news.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“Are all well in the jungle?” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000138">hugging him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“All except the wolves that were burned with the Red Flower.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000141">listen.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Shere Khan has gone away to hunt far off till his coat grows again,</span>
   <span id="f000143">for he is badly singed.</span>
   <span id="f000144">When he returns he swears that he will lay thy bones in the Waingunga.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">“There are two words to that.</span>
   <span id="f000146">I also have made a little promise.</span>
   <span id="f000147">But news is always good.</span>
   <span id="f000148">I am tired to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000149">– very tired with new things,</span>
   <span id="f000150">Gray Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000151">– but bring me the news always.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“Thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf?</span>
   <span id="f000153">Men will not make thee forget?” said Gray Brother anxiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“Never.</span>
   <span id="f000155">I will always remember that I love thee and all in our cave.</span>
   <span id="f000156">But also I will always remember that I have been cast out of the Pack.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“And that thou mayest be cast out of another pack.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Men are only men,</span>
   <span id="f000159">Little Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and their talk is like the talk of frogs in a pond.</span>
   <span id="f000161">When I come down here again,</span>
   <span id="f000162">I will wait for thee in the bamboos at the edge of the grazing-ground.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">For three months after that night Mowgli hardly ever left the village gate,</span>
   <span id="f000164">he was so busy learning the ways and customs of men.</span>
   <span id="f000165">First he had to wear a cloth round him,</span>
   <span id="f000166">which annoyed him horribly;</span>
   <span id="f000167">and then he had to learn about money,</span>
   <span id="f000168">which he did not in the least understand,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and about plowing,</span>
   <span id="f000170">of which he did not see the use.</span>
   <span id="f000171">Then the little children in the village made him very angry.</span>
   <span id="f000172">Luckily,</span>
   <span id="f000173">the Law of the Jungle had taught him to keep his temper,</span>
   <span id="f000174">for in the jungle life and food depend on keeping your temper;</span>
   <span id="f000175">but when they made fun of him because he would not play games or fly kites,</span>
   <span id="f000176">or because he mispronounced some word,</span>
   <span id="f000177">only the knowledge that it was unsportsmanlike to kill little naked cubs kept him from picking them up and breaking them in two.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">He did not know his own strength in the least.</span>
   <span id="f000179">In the jungle he knew he was weak compared with the beasts,</span>
   <span id="f000180">but in the village people said that he was as strong as a bull.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">And Mowgli had not the faintest idea of the difference that caste makes between man and man.</span>
   <span id="f000182">When the potter’s donkey slipped in the clay pit,</span>
   <span id="f000183">Mowgli hauled it out by the tail,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and helped to stack the pots for their journey to the market at Khanhiwara.</span>
   <span id="f000185">That was very shocking,</span>
   <span id="f000186">too,</span>
   <span id="f000187">for the potter is a low-caste man,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and his donkey is worse.</span>
   <span id="f000189">When the priest scolded him,</span>
   <span id="f000190">Mowgli threatened to put him on the donkey too,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and the priest told Messua’s husband that Mowgli had better be set to work as soon as possible;</span>
   <span id="f000192">and the village head-man told Mowgli that he would have to go out with the buffaloes next day,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and herd them while they grazed.</span>
   <span id="f000194">No one was more pleased than Mowgli;</span>
   <span id="f000195">and that night,</span>
   <span id="f000196">because he had been appointed a servant of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000197">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000198">he went off to a circle that met every evening on a masonry platform under a great fig-tree.</span>
   <span id="f000199">It was the village club,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and the head-man and the watchman and the barber,</span>
   <span id="f000201">who knew all the gossip of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and old Buldeo,</span>
   <span id="f000203">the village hunter,</span>
   <span id="f000204">who had a Tower musket,</span>
   <span id="f000205">met and smoked.</span>
   <span id="f000206">The monkeys sat and talked in the upper branches,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and there was a hole under the platform where a cobra lived,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and he had his little platter of milk every night because he was sacred;</span>
   <span id="f000209">and the old men sat around the tree and talked,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and pulled at the big huqas</span>
   <span id="f000211">(the water-pipes)</span>
   <span id="f000212">till far into the night.</span>
   <span id="f000213">They told wonderful tales of gods and men and ghosts;</span>
   <span id="f000214">and Buldeo told even more wonderful ones of the ways of beasts in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000215">till the eyes of the children sitting outside the circle bulged out of their heads.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Most of the tales were about animals,</span>
   <span id="f000217">for the jungle was always at their door.</span>
   <span id="f000218">The deer and the wild pig grubbed up their crops,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and now and again the tiger carried off a man at twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000220">within sight of the village gates.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000222">who naturally knew something about what they were talking of,</span>
   <span id="f000223">had to cover his face not to show that he was laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000224">while Buldeo,</span>
   <span id="f000225">the Tower musket across his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000226">climbed on from one wonderful story to another,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and Mowgli’s shoulders shook.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">Buldeo was explaining how the tiger that had carried away Messua’s son was a ghost-tiger,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and his body was inhabited by the ghost of a wicked,</span>
   <span id="f000230">old money-lender,</span>
   <span id="f000231">who had died some years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000232">“And I know that this is true,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000233">“because Purun Dass always limped from the blow that he got in a riot when his account books were burned,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and the tiger that I speak of he limps,</span>
   <span id="f000235">too,</span>
   <span id="f000236">for the tracks of his pads are unequal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“True,</span>
   <span id="f000238">true,</span>
   <span id="f000239">that must be the truth,” said the gray-beards,</span>
   <span id="f000240">nodding together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Are all these tales such cobwebs and moon talk?” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000242">“That tiger limps because he was born lame,</span>
   <span id="f000243">as everyone knows.</span>
   <span id="f000244">To talk of the soul of a money-lender in a beast that never had the courage of a jackal is child’s talk.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">Buldeo was speechless with surprise for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and the head-man stared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“Oho!</span>
   <span id="f000248">It is the jungle brat,</span>
   <span id="f000249">is it?” said Buldeo.</span>
   <span id="f000250">“If thou art so wise,</span>
   <span id="f000251">better bring his hide to Khanhiwara,</span>
   <span id="f000252">for the Government has set a hundred rupees on his life.</span>
   <span id="f000253">Better still,</span>
   <span id="f000254">talk not when thy elders speak.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">Mowgli rose to go.</span>
   <span id="f000256">“All the evening I have lain here listening,” he called back over his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000257">“and,</span>
   <span id="f000258">except once or twice,</span>
   <span id="f000259">Buldeo has not said one word of truth concerning the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000260">which is at his very doors.</span>
   <span id="f000261">How,</span>
   <span id="f000262">then,</span>
   <span id="f000263">shall I believe the tales of ghosts and gods and goblins which he says he has seen?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“It is full time that boy went to herding,” said the head-man,</span>
   <span id="f000265">while Buldeo puffed and snorted at Mowgli’s impertinence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">The custom of most Indian villages is for a few boys to take the cattle and buffaloes out to graze in the early morning,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and bring them back at night.</span>
   <span id="f000268">The very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow themselves to be banged and bullied and shouted at by children that hardly come up to their noses.</span>
   <span id="f000269">So long as the boys keep with the herds they are safe,</span>
   <span id="f000270">for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle.</span>
   <span id="f000271">But if they straggle to pick flowers or hunt lizards,</span>
   <span id="f000272">they are sometimes carried off.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Mowgli went through the village street in the dawn,</span>
   <span id="f000274">sitting on the back of Rama,</span>
   <span id="f000275">the great herd bull.</span>
   <span id="f000276">The slaty-blue buffaloes,</span>
   <span id="f000277">with their long,</span>
   <span id="f000278">backward-sweeping horns and savage eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000279">rose out their byres,</span>
   <span id="f000280">one by one,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and followed him,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and Mowgli made it very clear to the children with him that he was the master.</span>
   <span id="f000283">He beat the buffaloes with a long,</span>
   <span id="f000284">polished bamboo,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and told Kamya,</span>
   <span id="f000286">one of the boys,</span>
   <span id="f000287">to graze the cattle by themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000288">while he went on with the buffaloes,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and to be very careful not to stray away from the herd.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">An Indian grazing ground is all rocks and scrub and tussocks and little ravines,</span>
   <span id="f000291">among which the herds scatter and disappear.</span>
   <span id="f000292">The buffaloes generally keep to the pools and muddy places,</span>
   <span id="f000293">where they lie wallowing or basking in the warm mud for hours.</span>
   <span id="f000294">Mowgli drove them on to the edge of the plain where the Waingunga came out of the jungle;</span>
   <span id="f000295">then he dropped from Rama’s neck,</span>
   <span id="f000296">trotted off to a bamboo clump,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and found Gray Brother.</span>
   <span id="f000298">“Ah,” said Gray Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000299">“I have waited here very many days.</span>
   <span id="f000300">What is the meaning of this cattle-herding work?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“It is an order,” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000302">“I am a village herd for a while.</span>
   <span id="f000303">What news of Shere Khan?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“He has come back to this country,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and has waited here a long time for thee.</span>
   <span id="f000306">Now he has gone off again,</span>
   <span id="f000307">for the game is scarce.</span>
   <span id="f000308">But he means to kill thee.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“Very good,” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000310">“So long as he is away do thou or one of the four brothers sit on that rock,</span>
   <span id="f000311">so that I can see thee as I come out of the village.</span>
   <span id="f000312">When he comes back wait for me in the ravine by the dhak tree in the center of the plain.</span>
   <span id="f000313">We need not walk into Shere Khan’s mouth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">Then Mowgli picked out a shady place,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and lay down and slept while the buffaloes grazed round him.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Herding in India is one of the laziest things in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000317">The cattle move and crunch,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and lie down,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and move on again,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and they do not even low.</span>
   <span id="f000321">They only grunt,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and the buffaloes very seldom say anything,</span>
   <span id="f000323">but get down into the muddy pools one after another,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and work their way into the mud till only their noses and staring china-blue eyes show above the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and then they lie like logs.</span>
   <span id="f000326">The sun makes the rocks dance in the heat,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and the herd children hear one kite</span>
   <span id="f000328">(never any more)</span>
   <span id="f000329">whistling almost out of sight overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and they know that if they died,</span>
   <span id="f000331">or a cow died,</span>
   <span id="f000332">that kite would sweep down,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and the next kite miles away would see him drop and follow,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and the next,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and the next,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and almost before they were dead there would be a score of hungry kites come out of nowhere.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Then they sleep and wake and sleep again,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and weave little baskets of dried grass and put grasshoppers in them;</span>
   <span id="f000339">or catch two praying mantises and make them fight;</span>
   <span id="f000340">or string a necklace of red and black jungle nuts;</span>
   <span id="f000341">or watch a lizard basking on a rock,</span>
   <span id="f000342">or a snake hunting a frog near the wallows.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Then they sing long,</span>
   <span id="f000344">long songs with odd native quavers at the end of them,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and the day seems longer than most people’s whole lives,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and perhaps they make a mud castle with mud figures of men and horses and buffaloes,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and put reeds into the men’s hands,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and pretend that they are kings and the figures are their armies,</span>
   <span id="f000349">or that they are gods to be worshiped.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Then evening comes and the children call,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and the buffaloes lumber up out of the sticky mud with noises like gunshots going off one after the other,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and they all string across the gray plain back to the twinkling village lights.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">Day after day Mowgli would lead the buffaloes out to their wallows,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and day after day he would see Gray Brother’s back a mile and a half away across the plain</span>
   <span id="f000355">(so he knew that Shere Khan had not come back),</span>
   <span id="f000356">and day after day he would lie on the grass listening to the noises round him,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and dreaming of old days in the jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000358">If Shere Khan had made a false step with his lame paw up in the jungles by the Waingunga,</span>
   <span id="f000359">Mowgli would have heard him in those long,</span>
   <span id="f000360">still mornings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000361">At last a day came when he did not see Gray Brother at the signal place,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and he laughed and headed the buffaloes for the ravine by the dhk tree,</span>
   <span id="f000363">which was all covered with golden-red flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000364">There sat Gray Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000365">every bristle on his back lifted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“He has hidden for a month to throw thee off thy guard.</span>
   <span id="f000367">He crossed the ranges last night with Tabaqui,</span>
   <span id="f000368">hot-foot on thy trail,” said the Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000369">panting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">Mowgli frowned.</span>
   <span id="f000371">“I am not afraid of Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000372">but Tabaqui is very cunning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“Have no fear,” said Gray Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000374">licking his lips a little.</span>
   <span id="f000375">“I met Tabaqui in the dawn.</span>
   <span id="f000376">Now he is telling all his wisdom to the kites,</span>
   <span id="f000377">but he told me everything before I broke his back.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Shere Khan’s plan is to wait for thee at the village gate this evening – for thee and for no one else.</span>
   <span id="f000379">He is lying up now,</span>
   <span id="f000380">in the big dry ravine of the Waingunga.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">“Has he eaten today,</span>
   <span id="f000382">or does he hunt empty?” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000383">for the answer meant life and death to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“He killed at dawn,</span>
   <span id="f000385">– a pig,</span>
   <span id="f000386">– and he has drunk too.</span>
   <span id="f000387">Remember,</span>
   <span id="f000388">Shere Khan could never fast,</span>
   <span id="f000389">even for the sake of revenge.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000391">Fool,</span>
   <span id="f000392">fool!</span>
   <span id="f000393">What a cub’s cub it is!</span>
   <span id="f000394">Eaten and drunk too,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and he thinks that I shall wait till he has slept!</span>
   <span id="f000396">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000397">where does he lie up?</span>
   <span id="f000398">If there were but ten of us we might pull him down as he lies.</span>
   <span id="f000399">These buffaloes will not charge unless they wind him,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and I cannot speak their language.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Can we get behind his track so that they may smell it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“He swam far down the Waingunga to cut that off,” said Gray Brother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">“Tabaqui told him that,</span>
   <span id="f000404">I know.</span>
   <span id="f000405">He would never have thought of it alone.” Mowgli stood with his finger in his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000406">thinking.</span>
   <span id="f000407">“The big ravine of the Waingunga.</span>
   <span id="f000408">That opens out on the plain not half a mile from here.</span>
   <span id="f000409">I can take the herd round through the jungle to the head of the ravine and then sweep down – but he would slink out at the foot.</span>
   <span id="f000410">We must block that end.</span>
   <span id="f000411">Gray Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000412">canst thou cut the herd in two for me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">“Not I,</span>
   <span id="f000414">perhaps – but I have brought a wise helper.” Gray Brother trotted off and dropped into a hole.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Then there lifted up a huge gray head that Mowgli knew well,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and the hot air was filled with the most desolate cry of all the jungle – the hunting howl of a wolf at midday.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">“Akela!</span>
   <span id="f000418">Akela!” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000419">clapping his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000420">“I might have known that thou wouldst not forget me.</span>
   <span id="f000421">We have a big work in hand.</span>
   <span id="f000422">Cut the herd in two,</span>
   <span id="f000423">Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Keep the cows and calves together,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and the bulls and the plow buffaloes by themselves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">The two wolves ran,</span>
   <span id="f000427">ladies’-chain fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000428">in and out of the herd,</span>
   <span id="f000429">which snorted and threw up its head,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and separated into two clumps.</span>
   <span id="f000431">In one,</span>
   <span id="f000432">the cow-buffaloes stood with their calves in the center,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and glared and pawed,</span>
   <span id="f000434">ready,</span>
   <span id="f000435">if a wolf would only stay still,</span>
   <span id="f000436">to charge down and trample the life out of him.</span>
   <span id="f000437">In the other,</span>
   <span id="f000438">the bulls and the young bulls snorted and stamped,</span>
   <span id="f000439">but though they looked more imposing they were much less dangerous,</span>
   <span id="f000440">for they had no calves to protect.</span>
   <span id="f000441">No six men could have divided the herd so neatly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">“What orders!” panted Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000443">“They are trying to join again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">Mowgli slipped on to Rama’s back.</span>
   <span id="f000445">“Drive the bulls away to the left,</span>
   <span id="f000446">Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000447">Gray Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000448">when we are gone,</span>
   <span id="f000449">hold the cows together,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and drive them into the foot of the ravine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“How far?” said Gray Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000452">panting and snapping.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“Till the sides are higher than Shere Khan can jump,” shouted Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000454">“Keep them there till we come down.” The bulls swept off as Akela bayed,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and Gray Brother stopped in front of the cows.</span>
   <span id="f000456">They charged down on him,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and he ran just before them to the foot of the ravine,</span>
   <span id="f000458">as Akela drove the bulls far to the left.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“Well done!</span>
   <span id="f000460">Another charge and they are fairly started.</span>
   <span id="f000461">Careful,</span>
   <span id="f000462">now – careful,</span>
   <span id="f000463">Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000464">A snap too much and the bulls will charge.</span>
   <span id="f000465">Hujah!</span>
   <span id="f000466">This is wilder work than driving black-buck.</span>
   <span id="f000467">Didst thou think these creatures could move so swiftly?” Mowgli called.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“I have – have hunted these too in my time,” gasped Akela in the dust.</span>
   <span id="f000469">“Shall I turn them into the jungle?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">“Ay!</span>
   <span id="f000471">Turn.</span>
   <span id="f000472">Swiftly turn them!</span>
   <span id="f000473">Rama is mad with rage.</span>
   <span id="f000474">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000475">if I could only tell him what I need of him to-day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">The bulls were turned,</span>
   <span id="f000477">to the right this time,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and crashed into the standing thicket.</span>
   <span id="f000479">The other herd children,</span>
   <span id="f000480">watching with the cattle half a mile away,</span>
   <span id="f000481">hurried to the village as fast as their legs could carry them,</span>
   <span id="f000482">crying that the buffaloes had gone mad and run away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">But Mowgli’s plan was simple enough.</span>
   <span id="f000484">All he wanted to do was to make a big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and then take the bulls down it and catch Shere Khan between the bulls and the cows;</span>
   <span id="f000486">for he knew that after a meal and a full drink Shere Khan would not be in any condition to fight or to clamber up the sides of the ravine.</span>
   <span id="f000487">He was soothing the buffaloes now by voice,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and Akela had dropped far to the rear,</span>
   <span id="f000489">only whimpering once or twice to hurry the rear-guard.</span>
   <span id="f000490">It was a long,</span>
   <span id="f000491">long circle,</span>
   <span id="f000492">for they did not wish to get too near the ravine and give Shere Khan warning.</span>
   <span id="f000493">At last Mowgli rounded up the bewildered herd at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that sloped steeply down to the ravine itself.</span>
   <span id="f000494">From that height you could see across the tops of the trees down to the plain below;</span>
   <span id="f000495">but what Mowgli looked at was the sides of the ravine,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and he saw with a great deal of satisfaction that they ran nearly straight up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000497">while the vines and creepers that hung over them would give no foothold to a tiger who wanted to get out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000498">“Let them breathe,</span>
   <span id="f000499">Akela,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000500">holding up his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000501">“They have not winded him yet.</span>
   <span id="f000502">Let them breathe.</span>
   <span id="f000503">I must tell Shere Khan who comes.</span>
   <span id="f000504">We have him in the trap.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

