<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">"Tiger! Tiger!" II<br />Mowgli's Song</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">He put his hands to his mouth and shouted down the ravine – it was almost like shouting down a tunnel – and the echoes jumped from rock to rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000003">After a long time there came back the drawling,</span>
   <span id="f000004">sleepy snarl of a full-fed tiger just wakened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000005">“Who calls?” said Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and a splendid peacock fluttered up out of the ravine screeching.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000007">“I,</span>
   <span id="f000008">Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Cattle thief,</span>
   <span id="f000010">it is time to come to the Council Rock!</span>
   <span id="f000011">Down – hurry them down,</span>
   <span id="f000012">Akela!</span>
   <span id="f000013">Down,</span>
   <span id="f000014">Rama,</span>
   <span id="f000015">down!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">The herd paused for an instant at the edge of the slope,</span>
   <span id="f000017">but Akela gave tongue in the full hunting-yell,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and they pitched over one after the other,</span>
   <span id="f000019">just as steamers shoot rapids,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the sand and stones spurting up round them.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Once started,</span>
   <span id="f000022">there was no chance of stopping,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and before they were fairly in the bed of the ravine Rama winded Shere Khan and bellowed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000025">Ha!” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000026">on his back.</span>
   <span id="f000027">“Now thou knowest!” and the torrent of black horns,</span>
   <span id="f000028">foaming muzzles,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and staring eyes whirled down the ravine just as boulders go down in floodtime;</span>
   <span id="f000030">the weaker buffaloes being shouldered out to the sides of the ravine where they tore through the creepers.</span>
   <span id="f000031">They knew what the business was before them – the terrible charge of the buffalo herd against which no tiger can hope to stand.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Shere Khan heard the thunder of their hoofs,</span>
   <span id="f000033">picked himself up,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and lumbered down the ravine,</span>
   <span id="f000035">looking from side to side for some way of escape,</span>
   <span id="f000036">but the walls of the ravine were straight and he had to hold on,</span>
   <span id="f000037">heavy with his dinner and his drink,</span>
   <span id="f000038">willing to do anything rather than fight.</span>
   <span id="f000039">The herd splashed through the pool he had just left,</span>
   <span id="f000040">bellowing till the narrow cut rang.</span>
   <span id="f000041">Mowgli heard an answering bellow from the foot of the ravine,</span>
   <span id="f000042">saw Shere Khan turn</span>
   <span id="f000043">(the tiger knew if the worst came to the worst it was better to meet the bulls than the cows with their calves),</span>
   <span id="f000044">and then Rama tripped,</span>
   <span id="f000045">stumbled,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and went on again over something soft,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and,</span>
   <span id="f000048">with the bulls at his heels,</span>
   <span id="f000049">crashed full into the other herd,</span>
   <span id="f000050">while the weaker buffaloes were lifted clean off their feet by the shock of the meeting.</span>
   <span id="f000051">That charge carried both herds out into the plain,</span>
   <span id="f000052">goring and stamping and snorting.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Mowgli watched his time,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and slipped off Rama’s neck,</span>
   <span id="f000055">laying about him right and left with his stick.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">“Quick,</span>
   <span id="f000057">Akela!</span>
   <span id="f000058">Break them up.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Scatter them,</span>
   <span id="f000060">or they will be fighting one another.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Drive them away,</span>
   <span id="f000062">Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Hai,</span>
   <span id="f000064">Rama!</span>
   <span id="f000065">Hai,</span>
   <span id="f000066">hai,</span>
   <span id="f000067">hai!</span>
   <span id="f000068">my children.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Softly now,</span>
   <span id="f000070">softly!</span>
   <span id="f000071">It is all over.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Akela and Gray Brother ran to and fro nipping the buffaloes’ legs,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and though the herd wheeled once to charge up the ravine again,</span>
   <span id="f000074">Mowgli managed to turn Rama,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and the others followed him to the wallows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">Shere Khan needed no more trampling.</span>
   <span id="f000077">He was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and the kites were coming for him already.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“Brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000080">that was a dog’s death,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000081">feeling for the knife he always carried in a sheath round his neck now that he lived with men.</span>
   <span id="f000082">“But he would never have shown fight.</span>
   <span id="f000083">His hide will look well on the Council Rock.</span>
   <span id="f000084">We must get to work swiftly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">A boy trained among men would never have dreamed of skinning a ten-foot tiger alone,</span>
   <span id="f000086">but Mowgli knew better than anyone else how an animal’s skin is fitted on,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and how it can be taken off.</span>
   <span id="f000088">But it was hard work,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and Mowgli slashed and tore and grunted for an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000090">while the wolves lolled out their tongues,</span>
   <span id="f000091">or came forward and tugged as he ordered them.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Presently a hand fell on his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and looking up he saw Buldeo with the Tower musket.</span>
   <span id="f000094">The children had told the village about the buffalo stampede,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and Buldeo went out angrily,</span>
   <span id="f000096">only too anxious to correct Mowgli for not taking better care of the herd.</span>
   <span id="f000097">The wolves dropped out of sight as soon as they saw the man coming.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“What is this folly?” said Buldeo angrily.</span>
   <span id="f000099">“To think that thou canst skin a tiger!</span>
   <span id="f000100">Where did the buffaloes kill him?</span>
   <span id="f000101">It is the Lame Tiger too,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and there is a hundred rupees on his head.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000104">well,</span>
   <span id="f000105">we will overlook thy letting the herd run off,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and perhaps I will give thee one of the rupees of the reward when I have taken the skin to Khanhiwara.” He fumbled in his waist cloth for flint and steel,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and stooped down to singe Shere Khan’s whiskers.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Most native hunters always singe a tiger’s whiskers to prevent his ghost from haunting them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“Hum!” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000110">half to himself as he ripped back the skin of a forepaw.</span>
   <span id="f000111">“So thou wilt take the hide to Khanhiwara for the reward,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and perhaps give me one rupee?</span>
   <span id="f000113">Now it is in my mind that I need the skin for my own use.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Heh!</span>
   <span id="f000115">Old man,</span>
   <span id="f000116">take away that fire!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“What talk is this to the chief hunter of the village?</span>
   <span id="f000118">Thy luck and the stupidity of thy buffaloes have helped thee to this kill.</span>
   <span id="f000119">The tiger has just fed,</span>
   <span id="f000120">or he would have gone twenty miles by this time.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Thou canst not even skin him properly,</span>
   <span id="f000122">little beggar brat,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and forsooth I,</span>
   <span id="f000124">Buldeo,</span>
   <span id="f000125">must be told not to singe his whiskers.</span>
   <span id="f000126">Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000127">I will not give thee one anna of the reward,</span>
   <span id="f000128">but only a very big beating.</span>
   <span id="f000129">Leave the carcass!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“By the Bull that bought me,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000131">who was trying to get at the shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000132">“must I stay babbling to an old ape all noon?</span>
   <span id="f000133">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000134">Akela,</span>
   <span id="f000135">this man plagues me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">Buldeo,</span>
   <span id="f000137">who was still stooping over Shere Khan’s head,</span>
   <span id="f000138">found himself sprawling on the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000139">with a gray wolf standing over him,</span>
   <span id="f000140">while Mowgli went on skinning as though he were alone in all India.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“Ye-es,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000142">between his teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000143">“Thou art altogether right,</span>
   <span id="f000144">Buldeo.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward.</span>
   <span id="f000146">There is an old war between this lame tiger and myself – a very old war,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and – I have won.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">To do Buldeo justice,</span>
   <span id="f000149">if he had been ten years younger he would have taken his chance with Akela had he met the wolf in the woods,</span>
   <span id="f000150">but a wolf who obeyed the orders of this boy who had private wars with man-eating tigers was not a common animal.</span>
   <span id="f000151">It was sorcery,</span>
   <span id="f000152">magic of the worst kind,</span>
   <span id="f000153">thought Buldeo,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and he wondered whether the amulet round his neck would protect him.</span>
   <span id="f000155">He lay as still as still,</span>
   <span id="f000156">expecting every minute to see Mowgli turn into a tiger too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Maharaj!</span>
   <span id="f000158">Great King,” he said at last in a husky whisper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“Yes,” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000160">without turning his head,</span>
   <span id="f000161">chuckling a little.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“I am an old man.</span>
   <span id="f000163">I did not know that thou wast anything more than a herdsboy.</span>
   <span id="f000164">May I rise up and go away,</span>
   <span id="f000165">or will thy servant tear me to pieces?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Go,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and peace go with thee.</span>
   <span id="f000168">Only,</span>
   <span id="f000169">another time do not meddle with my game.</span>
   <span id="f000170">Let him go,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Akela.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">Buldeo hobbled away to the village as fast as he could,</span>
   <span id="f000173">looking back over his shoulder in case Mowgli should change into something terrible.</span>
   <span id="f000174">When he got to the village he told a tale of magic and enchantment and sorcery that made the priest look very grave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">Mowgli went on with his work,</span>
   <span id="f000176">but it was nearly twilight before he and the wolves had drawn the great gay skin clear of the body.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Now we must hide this and take the buffaloes home!</span>
   <span id="f000178">Help me to herd them,</span>
   <span id="f000179">Akela.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">The herd rounded up in the misty twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and when they got near the village Mowgli saw lights,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and heard the conches and bells in the temple blowing and banging.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Half the village seemed to be waiting for him by the gate.</span>
   <span id="f000184">“That is because I have killed Shere Khan,” he said to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000185">But a shower of stones whistled about his ears,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and the villagers shouted:</span>
   <span id="f000187">“Sorcerer!</span>
   <span id="f000188">Wolf’s brat!</span>
   <span id="f000189">Jungle demon!</span>
   <span id="f000190">Go away!</span>
   <span id="f000191">Get hence quickly or the priest will turn thee into a wolf again.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Shoot,</span>
   <span id="f000193">Buldeo,</span>
   <span id="f000194">shoot!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">The old Tower musket went off with a bang,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and a young buffalo bellowed in pain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“More sorcery!” shouted the villagers.</span>
   <span id="f000198">“He can turn bullets.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Buldeo,</span>
   <span id="f000200">that was thy buffalo.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Now what is this?” said Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000202">bewildered,</span>
   <span id="f000203">as the stones flew thicker.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“They are not unlike the Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000205">these brothers of thine,” said Akela,</span>
   <span id="f000206">sitting down composedly.</span>
   <span id="f000207">“It is in my head that,</span>
   <span id="f000208">if bullets mean anything,</span>
   <span id="f000209">they would cast thee out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“Wolf!</span>
   <span id="f000211">Wolf’s cub!</span>
   <span id="f000212">Go away!” shouted the priest,</span>
   <span id="f000213">waving a sprig of the sacred tulsi plant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“Again?</span>
   <span id="f000215">Last time it was because I was a man.</span>
   <span id="f000216">This time it is because I am a wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Let us go,</span>
   <span id="f000218">Akela.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">A woman – it was Messua – ran across to the herd,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and cried:</span>
   <span id="f000221">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000222">my son,</span>
   <span id="f000223">my son!</span>
   <span id="f000224">They say thou art a sorcerer who can turn himself into a beast at will.</span>
   <span id="f000225">I do not believe,</span>
   <span id="f000226">but go away or they will kill thee.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Buldeo says thou art a wizard,</span>
   <span id="f000228">but I know thou hast avenged Nathoo’s death.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“Come back,</span>
   <span id="f000230">Messua!” shouted the crowd.</span>
   <span id="f000231">“Come back,</span>
   <span id="f000232">or we will stone thee.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">Mowgli laughed a little short ugly laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000234">for a stone had hit him in the mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000235">“Run back,</span>
   <span id="f000236">Messua.</span>
   <span id="f000237">This is one of the foolish tales they tell under the big tree at dusk.</span>
   <span id="f000238">I have at least paid for thy son’s life.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Farewell;</span>
   <span id="f000240">and run quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000241">for I shall send the herd in more swiftly than their brickbats.</span>
   <span id="f000242">I am no wizard,</span>
   <span id="f000243">Messua.</span>
   <span id="f000244">Farewell!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000246">once more,</span>
   <span id="f000247">Akela,” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000248">“Bring the herd in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">The buffaloes were anxious enough to get to the village.</span>
   <span id="f000250">They hardly needed Akela’s yell,</span>
   <span id="f000251">but charged through the gate like a whirlwind,</span>
   <span id="f000252">scattering the crowd right and left.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“Keep count!” shouted Mowgli scornfully.</span>
   <span id="f000254">“It may be that I have stolen one of them.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Keep count,</span>
   <span id="f000256">for I will do your herding no more.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Fare you well,</span>
   <span id="f000258">children of men,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and thank Messua that I do not come in with my wolves and hunt you up and down your street.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">He turned on his heel and walked away with the Lone Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and as he looked up at the stars he felt happy.</span>
   <span id="f000262">“No more sleeping in traps for me,</span>
   <span id="f000263">Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000264">Let us get Shere Khan’s skin and go away.</span>
   <span id="f000265">No,</span>
   <span id="f000266">we will not hurt the village,</span>
   <span id="f000267">for Messua was kind to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">When the moon rose over the plain,</span>
   <span id="f000269">making it look all milky,</span>
   <span id="f000270">the horrified villagers saw Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000271">with two wolves at his heels and a bundle on his head,</span>
   <span id="f000272">trotting across at the steady wolf’s trot that eats up the long miles like fire.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Then they banged the temple bells and blew the conches louder than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000274">And Messua cried,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and Buldeo embroidered the story of his adventures in the jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000276">till he ended by saying that Akela stood up on his hind legs and talked like a man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">The moon was just going down when Mowgli and the two wolves came to the hill of the Council Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and they stopped at Mother Wolf’s cave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">“They have cast me out from the Man-Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000280">Mother,” shouted Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000281">“but I come with the hide of Shere Khan to keep my word.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">Mother Wolf walked stiffly from the cave with the cubs behind her,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and her eyes glowed as she saw the skin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">“I told him on that day,</span>
   <span id="f000285">when he crammed his head and shoulders into this cave,</span>
   <span id="f000286">hunting for thy life,</span>
   <span id="f000287">Little Frog – I told him that the hunter would be the hunted.</span>
   <span id="f000288">It is well done.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“Little Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000290">it is well done,” said a deep voice in the thicket.</span>
   <span id="f000291">“We were lonely in the jungle without thee,” and Bagheera came running to Mowgli’s bare feet.</span>
   <span id="f000292">They clambered up the Council Rock together,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and Mowgli spread the skin out on the flat stone where Akela used to sit,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and pegged it down with four slivers of bamboo,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and Akela lay down upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and called the old call to the Council,</span>
   <span id="f000297">“Look – look well,</span>
   <span id="f000298">O Wolves,” exactly as he had called when Mowgli was first brought there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">Ever since Akela had been deposed,</span>
   <span id="f000300">the Pack had been without a leader,</span>
   <span id="f000301">hunting and fighting at their own pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000302">But they answered the call from habit;</span>
   <span id="f000303">and some of them were lame from the traps they had fallen into,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and some limped from shot wounds,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and some were mangy from eating bad food,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and many were missing.</span>
   <span id="f000307">But they came to the Council Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000308">all that were left of them,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and saw Shere Khan’s striped hide on the rock,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and the huge claws dangling at the end of the empty dangling feet.</span>
   <span id="f000311">It was then that Mowgli made up a song that came up into his throat all by itself,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and he shouted it aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000313">leaping up and down on the rattling skin,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and beating time with his heels till he had no more breath left,</span>
   <span id="f000315">while Gray Brother and Akela howled between the verses.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“Look well,</span>
   <span id="f000317">O Wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Have I kept my word?” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000319">And the wolves bayed “Yes,” and one tattered wolf howled:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“Lead us again,</span>
   <span id="f000321">O Akela.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Lead us again,</span>
   <span id="f000323">O Man-cub,</span>
   <span id="f000324">for we be sick of this lawlessness,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and we would be the Free People once more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Nay,” purred Bagheera,</span>
   <span id="f000327">“that may not be.</span>
   <span id="f000328">When ye are full-fed,</span>
   <span id="f000329">the madness may come upon you again.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Not for nothing are ye called the Free People.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Ye fought for freedom,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and it is yours.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Eat it,</span>
   <span id="f000334">O Wolves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“Man-Pack and Wolf-Pack have cast me out,” said Mowgli.</span>
   <span id="f000336">“Now I will hunt alone in the jungle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“And we will hunt with thee,” said the four cubs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">So Mowgli went away and hunted with the four cubs in the jungle from that day on.</span>
   <span id="f000339">But he was not always alone,</span>
   <span id="f000340">because,</span>
   <span id="f000341">years afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000342">he became a man and married.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">But that is a story for grown-ups.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000344">Mowgli's Song</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000345">THAT HE SANG AT THE COUNCIL ROCK WHEN HE<br /></span>
   <span id="f000346">DANCED ON SHERE KHAN’S HIDE</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">The Song of Mowgli – I,</span>
   <span id="f000348">Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000349">am singing.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Let the jungle<br /></span>
   <span id="f000351">listen to the things I have done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">Shere Khan said he would kill – would kill!</span>
   <span id="f000353">At the gates in the<br /></span>
   <span id="f000354">twilight he would kill Mowgli,</span>
   <span id="f000355">the Frog!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">He ate and he drank.</span>
   <span id="f000357">Drink deep,</span>
   <span id="f000358">Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000359">for when wilt thou<br /></span>
   <span id="f000360">drink again?</span>
   <span id="f000361">Sleep and dream of the kill.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">I am alone on the grazing-grounds.</span>
   <span id="f000363">Gray Brother,</span>
   <span id="f000364">come to me!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000365">Come to me,</span>
   <span id="f000366">Lone Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000367">for there is big game afoot!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">Bring up the great bull buffaloes,</span>
   <span id="f000369">the blue-skinned herd bulls<br /></span>
   <span id="f000370">with the angry eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000371">Drive them to and fro as I order.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">Sleepest thou still,</span>
   <span id="f000373">Shere Khan?</span>
   <span id="f000374">Wake,</span>
   <span id="f000375">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000376">wake!</span>
   <span id="f000377">Here come I,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000378">and the bulls are behind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">Rama,</span>
   <span id="f000380">the King of the Buffaloes,</span>
   <span id="f000381">stamped with his foot.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Waters of<br /></span>
   <span id="f000383">the Waingunga,</span>
   <span id="f000384">whither went Shere Khan?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">He is not Ikki to dig holes,</span>
   <span id="f000386">nor Mao,</span>
   <span id="f000387">the Peacock,</span>
   <span id="f000388">that he should<br /></span>
   <span id="f000389">fly.</span>
   <span id="f000390">He is not Mang the Bat,</span>
   <span id="f000391">to hang in the branches.</span>
   <span id="f000392">Little<br /></span>
   <span id="f000393">bamboos that creak together,</span>
   <span id="f000394">tell me where he ran?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">Ow!</span>
   <span id="f000396">He is there.</span>
   <span id="f000397">Ahoo!</span>
   <span id="f000398">He is there.</span>
   <span id="f000399">Under the feet of Rama<br /></span>
   <span id="f000400">lies the Lame One!</span>
   <span id="f000401">Up,</span>
   <span id="f000402">Shere Khan!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">Up and kill!</span>
   <span id="f000404">Here is meat;</span>
   <span id="f000405">break the necks of the bulls!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">Hsh!</span>
   <span id="f000407">He is asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000408">We will not wake him,</span>
   <span id="f000409">for his strength is<br /></span>
   <span id="f000410">very great.</span>
   <span id="f000411">The kites have come down to see it.</span>
   <span id="f000412">The black<br /></span>
   <span id="f000413">ants have come up to know it.</span>
   <span id="f000414">There is a great assembly in his<br /></span>
   <span id="f000415">honor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">Alala!</span>
   <span id="f000417">I have no cloth to wrap me.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The kites will see that I am<br /></span>
   <span id="f000419">naked.</span>
   <span id="f000420">I am ashamed to meet all these people.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">Lend me thy coat,</span>
   <span id="f000422">Shere Khan.</span>
   <span id="f000423">Lend me thy gay striped coat that I<br /></span>
   <span id="f000424">may go to the Council Rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">By the Bull that bought me I made a promise – a little promise.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000426">Only thy coat is lacking before I keep my word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">With the knife,</span>
   <span id="f000428">with the knife that men use,</span>
   <span id="f000429">with the knife of the<br /></span>
   <span id="f000430">hunter,</span>
   <span id="f000431">I will stoop down for my gift.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">Waters of the Waingunga,</span>
   <span id="f000433">Shere Khan gives me his coat for the love<br /></span>
   <span id="f000434">that he bears me.</span>
   <span id="f000435">Pull,</span>
   <span id="f000436">Gray Brother!</span>
   <span id="f000437">Pull,</span>
   <span id="f000438">Akela!</span>
   <span id="f000439">Heavy is<br /></span>
   <span id="f000440">the hide of Shere Khan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">The Man Pack are angry.</span>
   <span id="f000442">They throw stones and talk child’s talk.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000443">My mouth is bleeding.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Let me run away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">Through the night,</span>
   <span id="f000446">through the hot night,</span>
   <span id="f000447">run swiftly with me,</span>
   <span id="f000448">my<br /></span>
   <span id="f000449">brothers.</span>
   <span id="f000450">We will leave the lights of the village and go to<br /></span>
   <span id="f000451">the low moon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">Waters of the Waingunga,</span>
   <span id="f000453">the Man-Pack have cast me out.</span>
   <span id="f000454">I did<br /></span>
   <span id="f000455">them no harm,</span>
   <span id="f000456">but they were afraid of me.</span>
   <span id="f000457">Why?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">Wolf Pack,</span>
   <span id="f000459">ye have cast me out too.</span>
   <span id="f000460">The jungle is shut to me and<br /></span>
   <span id="f000461">the village gates are shut.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Why?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">As Mang flies between the beasts and birds,</span>
   <span id="f000464">so fly I between the<br /></span>
   <span id="f000465">village and the jungle.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Why?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">I dance on the hide of Shere Khan,</span>
   <span id="f000468">but my heart is very heavy.</span>
   <span id="f000469">My<br /></span>
   <span id="f000470">mouth is cut and wounded with the stones from the village,</span>
   <span id="f000471">but<br /></span>
   <span id="f000472">my heart is very light,</span>
   <span id="f000473">because I have come back to the jungle.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000474">Why?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">These two things fight together in me as the snakes fight in the<br /></span>
   <span id="f000476">spring.</span>
   <span id="f000477">The water comes out of my eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000478">yet I laugh while it<br /></span>
   <span id="f000479">falls.</span>
   <span id="f000480">Why?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">I am two Mowglis,</span>
   <span id="f000482">but the hide of Shere Khan is under my feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">All the jungle knows that I have killed Shere Khan.</span>
   <span id="f000484">Look – look<br /></span>
   <span id="f000485">well,</span>
   <span id="f000486">O Wolves!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">Ahae!</span>
   <span id="f000488">My heart is heavy with the things that I do not understand.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

