<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">The White Seal</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000003">hush thee,</span>
   <span id="f000004">my baby,</span>
   <span id="f000005">the night is behind us,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006">And black are the waters that sparkled so green.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000007">The moon,</span>
   <span id="f000008">o’er the combers,</span>
   <span id="f000009">looks downward to find us<br /></span>
   <span id="f000010">At rest in the hollows that rustle between.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000011">Where billow meets billow,</span>
   <span id="f000012">then soft be thy pillow,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000013">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000014">weary wee flipperling,</span>
   <span id="f000015">curl at thy ease!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000016">The storm shall not wake thee,</span>
   <span id="f000017">nor shark overtake thee,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000018">Asleep in the arms of the slow-swinging seas!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">Seal Lullaby</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000020">All these things happened several years ago at a place called Novastoshnah,</span>
   <span id="f000021">or North East Point,</span>
   <span id="f000022">on the Island of St.&#160;Paul,</span>
   <span id="f000023">away and away in the Bering Sea.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Limmershin,</span>
   <span id="f000025">the Winter Wren,</span>
   <span id="f000026">told me the tale when he was blown on to the rigging of a steamer going to Japan,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and I took him down into my cabin and warmed and fed him for a couple of days till he was fit to fly back to St.&#160;Paul’s again.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Limmershin is a very quaint little bird,</span>
   <span id="f000029">but he knows how to tell the truth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">Nobody comes to Novastoshnah except on business,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and the only people who have regular business there are the seals.</span>
   <span id="f000032">They come in the summer months by hundreds and hundreds of thousands out of the cold gray sea.</span>
   <span id="f000033">For Novastoshnah Beach has the finest accommodation for seals of any place in all the world.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">Sea Catch knew that,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and every spring would swim from whatever place he happened to be in – would swim like a torpedo-boat straight for Novastoshnah and spend a month fighting with his companions for a good place on the rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000036">as close to the sea as possible.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Sea Catch was fifteen years old,</span>
   <span id="f000038">a huge gray fur seal with almost a mane on his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and long,</span>
   <span id="f000040">wicked dog teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000041">When he heaved himself up on his front flippers he stood more than four feet clear of the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and his weight,</span>
   <span id="f000043">if anyone had been bold enough to weigh him,</span>
   <span id="f000044">was nearly seven hundred pounds.</span>
   <span id="f000045">He was scarred all over with the marks of savage fights,</span>
   <span id="f000046">but he was always ready for just one fight more.</span>
   <span id="f000047">He would put his head on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000048">as though he were afraid to look his enemy in the face;</span>
   <span id="f000049">then he would shoot it out like lightning,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and when the big teeth were firmly fixed on the other seal’s neck,</span>
   <span id="f000051">the other seal might get away if he could,</span>
   <span id="f000052">but Sea Catch would not help him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal,</span>
   <span id="f000054">for that was against the Rules of the Beach.</span>
   <span id="f000055">He only wanted room by the sea for his nursery.</span>
   <span id="f000056">But as there were forty or fifty thousand other seals hunting for the same thing each spring,</span>
   <span id="f000057">the whistling,</span>
   <span id="f000058">bellowing,</span>
   <span id="f000059">roaring,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and blowing on the beach was something frightful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">From a little hill called Hutchinson’s Hill,</span>
   <span id="f000062">you could look over three and a half miles of ground covered with fighting seals;</span>
   <span id="f000063">and the surf was dotted all over with the heads of seals hurrying to land and begin their share of the fighting.</span>
   <span id="f000064">They fought in the breakers,</span>
   <span id="f000065">they fought in the sand,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and they fought on the smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries,</span>
   <span id="f000067">for they were just as stupid and unaccommodating as men.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Their wives never came to the island until late in May or early in June,</span>
   <span id="f000069">for they did not care to be torn to pieces;</span>
   <span id="f000070">and the young two-,</span>
   <span id="f000071">three-,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and four-year-old seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland about half a mile through the ranks of the fighters and played about on the sand dunes in droves and legions,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and rubbed off every single green thing that grew.</span>
   <span id="f000074">They were called the holluschickie – the bachelors – and there were perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring when Matkah,</span>
   <span id="f000076">his soft,</span>
   <span id="f000077">sleek,</span>
   <span id="f000078">gentle-eyed wife,</span>
   <span id="f000079">came up out of the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and he caught her by the scruff of the neck and dumped her down on his reservation,</span>
   <span id="f000081">saying gruffly:</span>
   <span id="f000082">“Late as usual.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Where have you been?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four months he stayed on the beaches,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and so his temper was generally bad.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Matkah knew better than to answer back.</span>
   <span id="f000087">She looked round and cooed:</span>
   <span id="f000088">“How thoughtful of you.</span>
   <span id="f000089">You’ve taken the old place again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“I should think I had,” said Sea Catch.</span>
   <span id="f000091">“Look at me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places;</span>
   <span id="f000093">one eye was almost out,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and his sides were torn to ribbons.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000096">you men,</span>
   <span id="f000097">you men!” Matkah said,</span>
   <span id="f000098">fanning herself with her hind flipper.</span>
   <span id="f000099">“Why can’t you be sensible and settle your places quietly?</span>
   <span id="f000100">You look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“I haven’t been doing anything but fight since the middle of May.</span>
   <span id="f000102">The beach is disgracefully crowded this season.</span>
   <span id="f000103">I’ve met at least a hundred seals from Lukannon Beach,</span>
   <span id="f000104">house hunting.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Why can’t people stay where they belong?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“I’ve often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter Island instead of this crowded place,” said Matkah.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“Bah!</span>
   <span id="f000108">Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island.</span>
   <span id="f000109">If we went there they would say we were afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000110">We must preserve appearances,</span>
   <span id="f000111">my dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and pretended to go to sleep for a few minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000113">but all the time he was keeping a sharp lookout for a fight.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Now that all the seals and their wives were on the land,</span>
   <span id="f000115">you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above the loudest gales.</span>
   <span id="f000116">At the lowest counting there were over a million seals on the beach – old seals,</span>
   <span id="f000117">mother seals,</span>
   <span id="f000118">tiny babies,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and holluschickie,</span>
   <span id="f000120">fighting,</span>
   <span id="f000121">scuffling,</span>
   <span id="f000122">bleating,</span>
   <span id="f000123">crawling,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and playing together – going down to the sea and coming up from it in gangs and regiments,</span>
   <span id="f000125">lying over every foot of ground as far as the eye could reach,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and skirmishing about in brigades through the fog.</span>
   <span id="f000127">It is nearly always foggy at Novastoshnah,</span>
   <span id="f000128">except when the sun comes out and makes everything look all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000130">Matkah’s baby,</span>
   <span id="f000131">was born in the middle of that confusion,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and he was all head and shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000133">with pale,</span>
   <span id="f000134">watery blue eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000135">as tiny seals must be,</span>
   <span id="f000136">but there was something about his coat that made his mother look at him very closely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“Sea Catch,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000138">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000139">“our baby’s going to be white!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed!” snorted Sea Catch.</span>
   <span id="f000141">“There never has been such a thing in the world as a white seal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“I can’t help that,” said Matkah;</span>
   <span id="f000143">“there’s going to be now.” And she sang the low,</span>
   <span id="f000144">crooning seal song that all the mother seals sing to their babies:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000145">You mustn’t swim till you’re six weeks old,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000146">Or your head will be sunk by your heels;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000147">And summer gales and Killer Whales<br /></span>
   <span id="f000148">Are bad for baby seals.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">Are bad for baby seals,</span>
   <span id="f000150">dear rat,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000151">As bad as bad can be;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000152">But splash and grow strong,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000153">And you can’t be wrong.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000154">Child of the Open Sea!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000155">Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at first.</span>
   <span id="f000156">He paddled and scrambled about by his mother’s side,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and learned to scuffle out of the way when his father was fighting with another seal,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and the two rolled and roared up and down the slippery rocks.</span>
   <span id="f000159">Matkah used to go to sea to get things to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and the baby was fed only once in two days,</span>
   <span id="f000161">but then he ate all he could and throve upon it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">The first thing he did was to crawl inland,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and there he met tens of thousands of babies of his own age,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and they played together like puppies,</span>
   <span id="f000165">went to sleep on the clean sand,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and played again.</span>
   <span id="f000167">The old people in the nurseries took no notice of them,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and the holluschickie kept to their own grounds,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and the babies had a beautiful playtime.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">When Matkah came back from her deep-sea fishing she would go straight to their playground and call as a sheep calls for a lamb,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and wait until she heard Kotick bleat.</span>
   <span id="f000172">Then she would take the straightest of straight lines in his direction,</span>
   <span id="f000173">striking out with her fore flippers and knocking the youngsters head over heels right and left.</span>
   <span id="f000174">There were always a few hundred mothers hunting for their children through the playgrounds,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and the babies were kept lively.</span>
   <span id="f000176">But,</span>
   <span id="f000177">as Matkah told Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000178">“So long as you don’t lie in muddy water and get mange,</span>
   <span id="f000179">or rub the hard sand into a cut or scratch,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and so long as you never go swimming when there is a heavy sea,</span>
   <span id="f000181">nothing will hurt you here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">Little seals can no more swim than little children,</span>
   <span id="f000183">but they are unhappy till they learn.</span>
   <span id="f000184">The first time that Kotick went down to the sea a wave carried him out beyond his depth,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and his big head sank and his little hind flippers flew up exactly as his mother had told him in the song,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and if the next wave had not thrown him back again he would have drowned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">After that,</span>
   <span id="f000188">he learned to lie in a beach pool and let the wash of the waves just cover him and lift him up while he paddled,</span>
   <span id="f000189">but he always kept his eye open for big waves that might hurt.</span>
   <span id="f000190">He was two weeks learning to use his flippers;</span>
   <span id="f000191">and all that while he floundered in and out of the water,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and coughed and grunted and crawled up the beach and took catnaps on the sand,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and went back again,</span>
   <span id="f000194">until at last he found that he truly belonged to the water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">Then you can imagine the times that he had with his companions,</span>
   <span id="f000196">ducking under the rollers;</span>
   <span id="f000197">or coming in on top of a comber and landing with a swash and a splutter as the big wave went whirling far up the beach;</span>
   <span id="f000198">or standing up on his tail and scratching his head as the old people did;</span>
   <span id="f000199">or playing “I’m the King of the Castle” on slippery,</span>
   <span id="f000200">weedy rocks that just stuck out of the wash.</span>
   <span id="f000201">Now and then he would see a thin fin,</span>
   <span id="f000202">like a big shark’s fin,</span>
   <span id="f000203">drifting along close to shore,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and he knew that that was the Killer Whale,</span>
   <span id="f000205">the Grampus,</span>
   <span id="f000206">who eats young seals when he can get them;</span>
   <span id="f000207">and Kotick would head for the beach like an arrow,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and the fin would jig off slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000209">as if it were looking for nothing at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">Late in October the seals began to leave St.&#160;Paul’s for the deep sea,</span>
   <span id="f000211">by families and tribes,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and there was no more fighting over the nurseries,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and the holluschickie played anywhere they liked.</span>
   <span id="f000214">“Next year,” said Matkah to Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000215">“you will be a holluschickie;</span>
   <span id="f000216">but this year you must learn how to catch fish.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">They set out together across the Pacific,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and Matkah showed Kotick how to sleep on his back with his flippers tucked down by his side and his little nose just out of the water.</span>
   <span id="f000219">No cradle is so comfortable as the long,</span>
   <span id="f000220">rocking swell of the Pacific.</span>
   <span id="f000221">When Kotick felt his skin tingle all over,</span>
   <span id="f000222">Matkah told him he was learning the “feel of the water,” and that tingly,</span>
   <span id="f000223">prickly feelings meant bad weather coming,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and he must swim hard and get away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“In a little time,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000226">“you’ll know where to swim to,</span>
   <span id="f000227">but just now we’ll follow Sea Pig,</span>
   <span id="f000228">the Porpoise,</span>
   <span id="f000229">for he is very wise.” A school of porpoises were ducking and tearing through the water,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and little Kotick followed them as fast as he could.</span>
   <span id="f000231">“How do you know where to go to?” he panted.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The leader of the school rolled his white eye and ducked under.</span>
   <span id="f000233">“My tail tingles,</span>
   <span id="f000234">youngster,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000235">“That means there’s a gale behind me.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Come along!</span>
   <span id="f000237">When you’re south of the Sticky Water [he meant the Equator] and your tail tingles,</span>
   <span id="f000238">that means there’s a gale in front of you and you must head north.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Come along!</span>
   <span id="f000240">The water feels bad here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">This was one of very many things that Kotick learned,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and he was always learning.</span>
   <span id="f000243">Matkah taught him to follow the cod and the halibut along the under-sea banks and wrench the rockling out of his hole among the weeds;</span>
   <span id="f000244">how to skirt the wrecks lying a hundred fathoms below water and dart like a rifle bullet in at one porthole and out at another as the fishes ran;</span>
   <span id="f000245">how to dance on the top of the waves when the lightning was racing all over the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and wave his flipper politely to the stumpy-tailed Albatross and the Man-of-war Hawk as they went down the wind;</span>
   <span id="f000247">how to jump three or four feet clear of the water like a dolphin,</span>
   <span id="f000248">flippers close to the side and tail curved;</span>
   <span id="f000249">to leave the flying fish alone because they are all bony;</span>
   <span id="f000250">to take the shoulder-piece out of a cod at full speed ten fathoms deep,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and never to stop and look at a boat or a ship,</span>
   <span id="f000252">but particularly a row-boat.</span>
   <span id="f000253">At the end of six months what Kotick did not know about deep-sea fishing was not worth the knowing.</span>
   <span id="f000254">And all that time he never set flipper on dry ground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">One day,</span>
   <span id="f000256">however,</span>
   <span id="f000257">as he was lying half asleep in the warm water somewhere off the Island of Juan Fernandez,</span>
   <span id="f000258">he felt faint and lazy all over,</span>
   <span id="f000259">just as human people do when the spring is in their legs,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and he remembered the good firm beaches of Novastoshnah seven thousand miles away,</span>
   <span id="f000261">the games his companions played,</span>
   <span id="f000262">the smell of the seaweed,</span>
   <span id="f000263">the seal roar,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and the fighting.</span>
   <span id="f000265">That very minute he turned north,</span>
   <span id="f000266">swimming steadily,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and as he went on he met scores of his mates,</span>
   <span id="f000268">all bound for the same place,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and they said:</span>
   <span id="f000270">“Greeting,</span>
   <span id="f000271">Kotick!</span>
   <span id="f000272">This year we are all holluschickie,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and we can dance the Fire-dance in the breakers off Lukannon and play on the new grass.</span>
   <span id="f000274">But where did you get that coat?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">Kotick’s fur was almost pure white now,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and though he felt very proud of it,</span>
   <span id="f000277">he only said,</span>
   <span id="f000278">“Swim quickly!</span>
   <span id="f000279">My bones are aching for the land.” And so they all came to the beaches where they had been born,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and heard the old seals,</span>
   <span id="f000281">their fathers,</span>
   <span id="f000282">fighting in the rolling mist.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">That night Kotick danced the Fire-dance with the yearling seals.</span>
   <span id="f000284">The sea is full of fire on summer nights all the way down from Novastoshnah to Lukannon,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and each seal leaves a wake like burning oil behind him and a flaming flash when he jumps,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and the waves break in great phosphorescent streaks and swirls.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Then they went inland to the holluschickie grounds and rolled up and down in the new wild wheat and told stories of what they had done while they had been at sea.</span>
   <span id="f000288">They talked about the Pacific as boys would talk about a wood that they had been nutting in,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and if anyone had understood them he could have gone away and made such a chart of that ocean as never was.</span>
   <span id="f000290">The three- and four-year-old holluschickie romped down from Hutchinson’s Hill crying:</span>
   <span id="f000291">“Out of the way,</span>
   <span id="f000292">youngsters!</span>
   <span id="f000293">The sea is deep and you don’t know all that’s in it yet.</span>
   <span id="f000294">Wait till you’ve rounded the Horn.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Hi,</span>
   <span id="f000296">you yearling,</span>
   <span id="f000297">where did you get that white coat?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“I didn’t get it,” said Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000299">“It grew.” And just as he was going to roll the speaker over,</span>
   <span id="f000300">a couple of black-haired men with flat red faces came from behind a sand dune,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000302">who had never seen a man before,</span>
   <span id="f000303">coughed and lowered his head.</span>
   <span id="f000304">The holluschickie just bundled off a few yards and sat staring stupidly.</span>
   <span id="f000305">The men were no less than Kerick Booterin,</span>
   <span id="f000306">the chief of the seal-hunters on the island,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and Patalamon,</span>
   <span id="f000308">his son.</span>
   <span id="f000309">They came from the little village not half a mile from the sea nurseries,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and they were deciding what seals they would drive up to the killing pens – for the seals were driven just like sheep – to be turned into seal-skin jackets later on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“Ho!” said Patalamon.</span>
   <span id="f000312">“Look!</span>
   <span id="f000313">There’s a white seal!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">Kerick Booterin turned nearly white under his oil and smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000315">for he was an Aleut,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and Aleuts are not clean people.</span>
   <span id="f000317">Then he began to mutter a prayer.</span>
   <span id="f000318">“Don’t touch him,</span>
   <span id="f000319">Patalamon.</span>
   <span id="f000320">There has never been a white seal since – since I was born.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Perhaps it is old Zaharrof’s ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000322">He was lost last year in the big gale.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“I’m not going near him,” said Patalamon.</span>
   <span id="f000324">“He’s unlucky.</span>
   <span id="f000325">Do you really think he is old Zaharrof come back?</span>
   <span id="f000326">I owe him for some gulls’ eggs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“Don’t look at him,” said Kerick.</span>
   <span id="f000328">“Head off that drove of four-year-olds.</span>
   <span id="f000329">The men ought to skin two hundred to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000330">but it’s the beginning of the season and they are new to the work.</span>
   <span id="f000331">A hundred will do.</span>
   <span id="f000332">Quick!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">Patalamon rattled a pair of seal’s shoulder bones in front of a herd of holluschickie and they stopped dead,</span>
   <span id="f000334">puffing and blowing.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Then he stepped near and the seals began to move,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and Kerick headed them inland,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and they never tried to get back to their companions.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of seals watched them being driven,</span>
   <span id="f000339">but they went on playing just the same.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Kotick was the only one who asked questions,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and none of his companions could tell him anything,</span>
   <span id="f000342">except that the men always drove seals in that way for six weeks or two months of every year.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">“I am going to follow,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and his eyes nearly popped out of his head as he shuffled along in the wake of the herd.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“The white seal is coming after us,” cried Patalamon.</span>
   <span id="f000346">“That’s the first time a seal has ever come to the killing-grounds alone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">“Hsh!</span>
   <span id="f000348">Don’t look behind you,” said Kerick.</span>
   <span id="f000349">“It is Zaharrof’s ghost!</span>
   <span id="f000350">I must speak to the priest about this.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">The distance to the killing-grounds was only half a mile,</span>
   <span id="f000352">but it took an hour to cover,</span>
   <span id="f000353">because if the seals went too fast Kerick knew that they would get heated and then their fur would come off in patches when they were skinned.</span>
   <span id="f000354">So they went on very slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000355">past Sea Lion’s Neck,</span>
   <span id="f000356">past Webster House,</span>
   <span id="f000357">till they came to the Salt House just beyond the sight of the seals on the beach.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Kotick followed,</span>
   <span id="f000359">panting and wondering.</span>
   <span id="f000360">He thought that he was at the world’s end,</span>
   <span id="f000361">but the roar of the seal nurseries behind him sounded as loud as the roar of a train in a tunnel.</span>
   <span id="f000362">Then Kerick sat down on the moss and pulled out a heavy pewter watch and let the drove cool off for thirty minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and Kotick could hear the fog-dew dripping off the brim of his cap.</span>
   <span id="f000364">Then ten or twelve men,</span>
   <span id="f000365">each with an iron-bound club three or four feet long,</span>
   <span id="f000366">came up,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and Kerick pointed out one or two of the drove that were bitten by their companions or too hot,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and the men kicked those aside with their heavy boots made of the skin of a walrus’s throat,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and then Kerick said,</span>
   <span id="f000370">“Let go!” and then the men clubbed the seals on the head as fast as they could.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">Ten minutes later little Kotick did not recognize his friends any more,</span>
   <span id="f000372">for their skins were ripped off from the nose to the hind flippers,</span>
   <span id="f000373">whipped off and thrown down on the ground in a pile.</span>
   <span id="f000374">That was enough for Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000375">He turned and galloped</span>
   <span id="f000376">(a seal can gallop very swiftly for a short time)</span>
   <span id="f000377">back to the sea;</span>
   <span id="f000378">his little new mustache bristling with horror.</span>
   <span id="f000379">At Sea Lion’s Neck,</span>
   <span id="f000380">where the great sea lions sit on the edge of the surf,</span>
   <span id="f000381">he flung himself flipper-overhead into the cool water and rocked there,</span>
   <span id="f000382">gasping miserably.</span>
   <span id="f000383">“What’s here?” said a sea lion gruffly,</span>
   <span id="f000384">for as a rule the sea lions keep themselves to themselves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">“Scoochnie!</span>
   <span id="f000386">Ochen scoochnie!”</span>
   <span id="f000387">(“I’m lonesome,</span>
   <span id="f000388">very lonesome!”)</span>
   <span id="f000389">said Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000390">“They’re killing all the holluschickie on all the beaches!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">The Sea Lion turned his head inshore.</span>
   <span id="f000392">“Nonsense!” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000393">“Your friends are making as much noise as ever.</span>
   <span id="f000394">You must have seen old Kerick polishing off a drove.</span>
   <span id="f000395">He’s done that for thirty years.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“It’s horrible,” said Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000397">backing water as a wave went over him,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and steadying himself with a screw stroke of his flippers that brought him all standing within three inches of a jagged edge of rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“Well done for a yearling!” said the Sea Lion,</span>
   <span id="f000400">who could appreciate good swimming.</span>
   <span id="f000401">“I suppose it is rather awful from your way of looking at it,</span>
   <span id="f000402">but if you seals will come here year after year,</span>
   <span id="f000403">of course the men get to know of it,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and unless you can find an island where no men ever come you will always be driven.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Isn’t there any such island?” began Kotick.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“I’ve followed the poltoos [the halibut] for twenty years,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and I can’t say I’ve found it yet.</span>
   <span id="f000408">But look here – you seem to have a fondness for talking to your betters – suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to Sea Vitch.</span>
   <span id="f000409">He may know something.</span>
   <span id="f000410">Don’t flounce off like that.</span>
   <span id="f000411">It’s a six-mile swim,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and if I were you I should haul out and take a nap first,</span>
   <span id="f000413">little one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">Kotick thought that that was good advice,</span>
   <span id="f000415">so he swam round to his own beach,</span>
   <span id="f000416">hauled out,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and slept for half an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000418">twitching all over,</span>
   <span id="f000419">as seals will.</span>
   <span id="f000420">Then he headed straight for Walrus Islet,</span>
   <span id="f000421">a little low sheet of rocky island almost due northeast from Novastoshnah,</span>
   <span id="f000422">all ledges and rock and gulls’ nests,</span>
   <span id="f000423">where the walrus herded by themselves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">He landed close to old Sea Vitch – the big,</span>
   <span id="f000425">ugly,</span>
   <span id="f000426">bloated,</span>
   <span id="f000427">pimpled,</span>
   <span id="f000428">fat-necked,</span>
   <span id="f000429">long-tusked walrus of the North Pacific,</span>
   <span id="f000430">who has no manners except when he is asleep – as he was then,</span>
   <span id="f000431">with his hind flippers half in and half out of the surf.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">“Wake up!” barked Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000433">for the gulls were making a great noise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">“Hah!</span>
   <span id="f000435">Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000436">Hmph!</span>
   <span id="f000437">What’s that?” said Sea Vitch,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and he struck the next walrus a blow with his tusks and waked him up,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and the next struck the next,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and so on till they were all awake and staring in every direction but the right one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">“Hi!</span>
   <span id="f000442">It’s me,” said Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000443">bobbing in the surf and looking like a little white slug.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“Well!</span>
   <span id="f000445">May I be – skinned!” said Sea Vitch,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and they all looked at Kotick as you can fancy a club full of drowsy old gentlemen would look at a little boy.</span>
   <span id="f000447">Kotick did not care to hear any more about skinning just then;</span>
   <span id="f000448">he had seen enough of it.</span>
   <span id="f000449">So he called out:</span>
   <span id="f000450">“Isn’t there any place for seals to go where men don’t ever come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“Go and find out,” said Sea Vitch,</span>
   <span id="f000452">shutting his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000453">“Run away.</span>
   <span id="f000454">We’re busy here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">Kotick made his dolphin-jump in the air and shouted as loud as he could:</span>
   <span id="f000456">“Clam-eater!</span>
   <span id="f000457">Clam-eater!” He knew that Sea Vitch never caught a fish in his life but always rooted for clams and seaweed;</span>
   <span id="f000458">though he pretended to be a very terrible person.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Naturally the Chickies and the Gooverooskies and the Epatkas – the Burgomaster Gulls and the Kittiwakes and the Puffins,</span>
   <span id="f000460">who are always looking for a chance to be rude,</span>
   <span id="f000461">took up the cry,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and – so Limmershin told me – for nearly five minutes you could not have heard a gun fired on Walrus Islet.</span>
   <span id="f000463">All the population was yelling and screaming “Clam-eater!</span>
   <span id="f000464">Stareek [old man]!” while Sea Vitch rolled from side to side grunting and coughing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“Now will you tell?” said Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000466">all out of breath.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“Go and ask Sea Cow,” said Sea Vitch.</span>
   <span id="f000468">“If he is living still,</span>
   <span id="f000469">he’ll be able to tell you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">“How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him?” said Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000471">sheering off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">“He’s the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch,” screamed a Burgomaster gull,</span>
   <span id="f000473">wheeling under Sea Vitch’s nose.</span>
   <span id="f000474">“Uglier,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and with worse manners!</span>
   <span id="f000476">Stareek!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah,</span>
   <span id="f000478">leaving the gulls to scream.</span>
   <span id="f000479">There he found that no one sympathized with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seals.</span>
   <span id="f000480">They told him that men had always driven the holluschickie – it was part of the day’s work – and that if he did not like to see ugly things he should not have gone to the killing grounds.</span>
   <span id="f000481">But none of the other seals had seen the killing,</span>
   <span id="f000482">and that made the difference between him and his friends.</span>
   <span id="f000483">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000484">Kotick was a white seal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">“What you must do,” said old Sea Catch,</span>
   <span id="f000486">after he had heard his son’s adventures,</span>
   <span id="f000487">“is to grow up and be a big seal like your father,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and have a nursery on the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and then they will leave you alone.</span>
   <span id="f000490">In another five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself.” Even gentle Matkah,</span>
   <span id="f000491">his mother,</span>
   <span id="f000492">said:</span>
   <span id="f000493">“You will never be able to stop the killing.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Go and play in the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000495">Kotick.” And Kotick went off and danced the Fire-dance with a very heavy little heart.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

