<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">The White Seal II<br />Lukannon</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and set off alone because of a notion in his bullet-head.</span>
   <span id="f000004">He was going to find Sea Cow,</span>
   <span id="f000005">if there was such a person in the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and he was going to find a quiet island with good firm beaches for seals to live on,</span>
   <span id="f000007">where men could not get at them.</span>
   <span id="f000008">So he explored and explored by himself from the North to the South Pacific,</span>
   <span id="f000009">swimming as much as three hundred miles in a day and a night.</span>
   <span id="f000010">He met with more adventures than can be told,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and narrowly escaped being caught by the Basking Shark,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and the Spotted Shark,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and the Hammerhead,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and he met all the untrustworthy ruffians that loaf up and down the seas,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and the heavy polite fish,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and the scarlet spotted scallops that are moored in one place for hundreds of years,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and grow very proud of it;</span>
   <span id="f000018">but he never met Sea Cow,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and he never found an island that he could fancy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">If the beach was good and hard,</span>
   <span id="f000021">with a slope behind it for seals to play on,</span>
   <span id="f000022">there was always the smoke of a whaler on the horizon,</span>
   <span id="f000023">boiling down blubber,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and Kotick knew what that meant.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Or else he could see that seals had once visited the island and been killed off,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and Kotick knew that where men had come once they would come again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">He picked up with an old stumpy-tailed albatross,</span>
   <span id="f000028">who told him that Kerguelen Island was the very place for peace and quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and when Kotick went down there he was all but smashed to pieces against some wicked black cliffs in a heavy sleet-storm with lightning and thunder.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Yet as he pulled out against the gale he could see that even there had once been a seal nursery.</span>
   <span id="f000031">And it was so in all the other islands that he visited.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">Limmershin gave a long list of them,</span>
   <span id="f000033">for he said that Kotick spent five seasons exploring,</span>
   <span id="f000034">with a four months’ rest each year at Novastoshnah,</span>
   <span id="f000035">when the holluschickie used to make fun of him and his imaginary islands.</span>
   <span id="f000036">He went to the Gallapagos,</span>
   <span id="f000037">a horrid dry place on the Equator,</span>
   <span id="f000038">where he was nearly baked to death;</span>
   <span id="f000039">he went to the Georgia Islands,</span>
   <span id="f000040">the Orkneys,</span>
   <span id="f000041">Emerald Island,</span>
   <span id="f000042">Little Nightingale Island,</span>
   <span id="f000043">Gough’s Island,</span>
   <span id="f000044">Bouvet’s Island,</span>
   <span id="f000045">the Crossets,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and even to a little speck of an island south of the Cape of Good Hope.</span>
   <span id="f000047">But everywhere the People of the Sea told him the same things.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Seals had come to those islands once upon a time,</span>
   <span id="f000049">but men had killed them all off.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Even when he swam thousands of miles out of the Pacific and got to a place called Cape Corrientes</span>
   <span id="f000051">(that was when he was coming back from Gough’s Island),</span>
   <span id="f000052">he found a few hundred mangy seals on a rock and they told him that men came there too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">That nearly broke his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and he headed round the Horn back to his own beaches;</span>
   <span id="f000055">and on his way north he hauled out on an island full of green trees,</span>
   <span id="f000056">where he found an old,</span>
   <span id="f000057">old seal who was dying,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and Kotick caught fish for him and told him all his sorrows.</span>
   <span id="f000059">“Now,” said Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000060">“I am going back to Novastoshnah,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and if I am driven to the killing-pens with the holluschickie I shall not care.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">The old seal said,</span>
   <span id="f000063">“Try once more.</span>
   <span id="f000064">I am the last of the Lost Rookery of Masafuera,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and in the days when men killed us by the hundred thousand there was a story on the beaches that some day a white seal would come out of the North and lead the seal people to a quiet place.</span>
   <span id="f000066">I am old,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and I shall never live to see that day,</span>
   <span id="f000068">but others will.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Try once more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">And Kotick curled up his mustache</span>
   <span id="f000071">(it was a beauty)</span>
   <span id="f000072">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000073">“I am the only white seal that has ever been born on the beaches,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and I am the only seal,</span>
   <span id="f000075">black or white,</span>
   <span id="f000076">who ever thought of looking for new islands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">This cheered him immensely;</span>
   <span id="f000078">and when he came back to Novastoshnah that summer,</span>
   <span id="f000079">Matkah,</span>
   <span id="f000080">his mother,</span>
   <span id="f000081">begged him to marry and settle down,</span>
   <span id="f000082">for he was no longer a holluschick but a full-grown sea-catch,</span>
   <span id="f000083">with a curly white mane on his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000084">as heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000085">as big,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and as fierce as his father.</span>
   <span id="f000087">“Give me another season,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000088">“Remember,</span>
   <span id="f000089">Mother,</span>
   <span id="f000090">it is always the seventh wave that goes farthest up the beach.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">Curiously enough,</span>
   <span id="f000092">there was another seal who thought that she would put off marrying till the next year,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and Kotick danced the Fire-dance with her all down Lukannon Beach the night before he set off on his last exploration.</span>
   <span id="f000094">This time he went westward,</span>
   <span id="f000095">because he had fallen on the trail of a great shoal of halibut,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and he needed at least one hundred pounds of fish a day to keep him in good condition.</span>
   <span id="f000097">He chased them till he was tired,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and then he curled himself up and went to sleep on the hollows of the ground swell that sets in to Copper Island.</span>
   <span id="f000099">He knew the coast perfectly well,</span>
   <span id="f000100">so about midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000101">when he felt himself gently bumped on a weed-bed,</span>
   <span id="f000102">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000103">“Hm,</span>
   <span id="f000104">tide’s running strong tonight,” and turning over under water opened his eyes slowly and stretched.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Then he jumped like a cat,</span>
   <span id="f000106">for he saw huge things nosing about in the shoal water and browsing on the heavy fringes of the weeds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“By the Great Combers of Magellan!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000108">beneath his mustache.</span>
   <span id="f000109">“Who in the Deep Sea are these people?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">They were like no walrus,</span>
   <span id="f000111">sea lion,</span>
   <span id="f000112">seal,</span>
   <span id="f000113">bear,</span>
   <span id="f000114">whale,</span>
   <span id="f000115">shark,</span>
   <span id="f000116">fish,</span>
   <span id="f000117">squid,</span>
   <span id="f000118">or scallop that Kotick had ever seen before.</span>
   <span id="f000119">They were between twenty and thirty feet long,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and they had no hind flippers,</span>
   <span id="f000121">but a shovel-like tail that looked as if it had been whittled out of wet leather.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Their heads were the most foolish-looking things you ever saw,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and they balanced on the ends of their tails in deep water when they weren’t grazing,</span>
   <span id="f000124">bowing solemnly to each other and waving their front flippers as a fat man waves his arm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">“Ahem!” said Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000126">“Good sport,</span>
   <span id="f000127">gentlemen?” The big things answered by bowing and waving their flippers like the Frog Footman.</span>
   <span id="f000128">When they began feeding again Kotick saw that their upper lip was split into two pieces that they could twitch apart about a foot and bring together again with a whole bushel of seaweed between the splits.</span>
   <span id="f000129">They tucked the stuff into their mouths and chumped solemnly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“Messy style of feeding,</span>
   <span id="f000131">that,” said Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000132">They bowed again,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and Kotick began to lose his temper.</span>
   <span id="f000134">“Very good,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000135">“If you do happen to have an extra joint in your front flipper you needn’t show off so.</span>
   <span id="f000136">I see you bow gracefully,</span>
   <span id="f000137">but I should like to know your names.” The split lips moved and twitched;</span>
   <span id="f000138">and the glassy green eyes stared,</span>
   <span id="f000139">but they did not speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“Well!” said Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000141">“You’re the only people I’ve ever met uglier than Sea Vitch – and with worse manners.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">Then he remembered in a flash what the Burgomaster gull had screamed to him when he was a little yearling at Walrus Islet,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and he tumbled backward in the water,</span>
   <span id="f000144">for he knew that he had found Sea Cow at last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">The sea cows went on schlooping and grazing and chumping in the weed,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and Kotick asked them questions in every language that he had picked up in his travels;</span>
   <span id="f000147">and the Sea People talk nearly as many languages as human beings.</span>
   <span id="f000148">But the sea cows did not answer because Sea Cow cannot talk.</span>
   <span id="f000149">He has only six bones in his neck where he ought to have seven,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and they say under the sea that that prevents him from speaking even to his companions.</span>
   <span id="f000151">But,</span>
   <span id="f000152">as you know,</span>
   <span id="f000153">he has an extra joint in his foreflipper,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and by waving it up and down and about he makes what answers to a sort of clumsy telegraphic code.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">By daylight Kotick’s mane was standing on end and his temper was gone where the dead crabs go.</span>
   <span id="f000156">Then the Sea Cow began to travel northward very slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000157">stopping to hold absurd bowing councils from time to time,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and Kotick followed them,</span>
   <span id="f000159">saying to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000160">“People who are such idiots as these are would have been killed long ago if they hadn’t found out some safe island.</span>
   <span id="f000161">And what is good enough for the Sea Cow is good enough for the Sea Catch.</span>
   <span id="f000162">All the same,</span>
   <span id="f000163">I wish they’d hurry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">It was weary work for Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000165">The herd never went more than forty or fifty miles a day,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and stopped to feed at night,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and kept close to the shore all the time;</span>
   <span id="f000168">while Kotick swam round them,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and over them,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and under them,</span>
   <span id="f000171">but he could not hurry them up one-half mile.</span>
   <span id="f000172">As they went farther north they held a bowing council every few hours,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and Kotick nearly bit off his mustache with impatience till he saw that they were following up a warm current of water,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and then he respected them more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">One night they sank through the shiny water – sank like stones – and for the first time since he had known them began to swim quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Kotick followed,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and the pace astonished him,</span>
   <span id="f000178">for he never dreamed that Sea Cow was anything of a swimmer.</span>
   <span id="f000179">They headed for a cliff by the shore – a cliff that ran down into deep water,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and plunged into a dark hole at the foot of it,</span>
   <span id="f000181">twenty fathoms under the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000182">It was a long,</span>
   <span id="f000183">long swim,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and Kotick badly wanted fresh air before he was out of the dark tunnel they led him through.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“My wig!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000186">when he rose,</span>
   <span id="f000187">gasping and puffing,</span>
   <span id="f000188">into open water at the farther end.</span>
   <span id="f000189">“It was a long dive,</span>
   <span id="f000190">but it was worth it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">The sea cows had separated and were browsing lazily along the edges of the finest beaches that Kotick had ever seen.</span>
   <span id="f000192">There were long stretches of smooth-worn rock running for miles,</span>
   <span id="f000193">exactly fitted to make seal-nurseries,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and there were play-grounds of hard sand sloping inland behind them,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and there were rollers for seals to dance in,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and long grass to roll in,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and sand dunes to climb up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and,</span>
   <span id="f000199">best of all,</span>
   <span id="f000200">Kotick knew by the feel of the water,</span>
   <span id="f000201">which never deceives a true sea catch,</span>
   <span id="f000202">that no men had ever come there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">The first thing he did was to assure himself that the fishing was good,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and then he swam along the beaches and counted up the delightful low sandy islands half hidden in the beautiful rolling fog.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Away to the northward,</span>
   <span id="f000206">out to sea,</span>
   <span id="f000207">ran a line of bars and shoals and rocks that would never let a ship come within six miles of the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and between the islands and the mainland was a stretch of deep water that ran up to the perpendicular cliffs,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and somewhere below the cliffs was the mouth of the tunnel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“It’s Novastoshnah over again,</span>
   <span id="f000211">but ten times better,” said Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000212">“Sea Cow must be wiser than I thought.</span>
   <span id="f000213">Men can’t come down the cliffs,</span>
   <span id="f000214">even if there were any men;</span>
   <span id="f000215">and the shoals to seaward would knock a ship to splinters.</span>
   <span id="f000216">If any place in the sea is safe,</span>
   <span id="f000217">this is it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">He began to think of the seal he had left behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000219">but though he was in a hurry to go back to Novastoshnah,</span>
   <span id="f000220">he thoroughly explored the new country,</span>
   <span id="f000221">so that he would be able to answer all questions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">Then he dived and made sure of the mouth of the tunnel,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and raced through to the southward.</span>
   <span id="f000224">No one but a sea cow or a seal would have dreamed of there being such a place,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and when he looked back at the cliffs even Kotick could hardly believe that he had been under them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">He was six days going home,</span>
   <span id="f000227">though he was not swimming slowly;</span>
   <span id="f000228">and when he hauled out just above Sea Lion’s Neck the first person he met was the seal who had been waiting for him,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and she saw by the look in his eyes that he had found his island at last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">But the holluschickie and Sea Catch,</span>
   <span id="f000231">his father,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and all the other seals laughed at him when he told them what he had discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and a young seal about his own age said,</span>
   <span id="f000234">“This is all very well,</span>
   <span id="f000235">Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000236">but you can’t come from no one knows where and order us off like this.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Remember we’ve been fighting for our nurseries,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and that’s a thing you never did.</span>
   <span id="f000239">You preferred prowling about in the sea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">The other seals laughed at this,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and the young seal began twisting his head from side to side.</span>
   <span id="f000242">He had just married that year,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and was making a great fuss about it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“I’ve no nursery to fight for,” said Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000245">“I only want to show you all a place where you will be safe.</span>
   <span id="f000246">What’s the use of fighting?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000248">if you’re trying to back out,</span>
   <span id="f000249">of course I’ve no more to say,” said the young seal with an ugly chuckle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“Will you come with me if I win?” said Kotick.</span>
   <span id="f000251">And a green light came into his eye,</span>
   <span id="f000252">for he was very angry at having to fight at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“Very good,” said the young seal carelessly.</span>
   <span id="f000254">“If you win,</span>
   <span id="f000255">I’ll come.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">He had no time to change his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000257">for Kotick’s head was out and his teeth sunk in the blubber of the young seal’s neck.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Then he threw himself back on his haunches and hauled his enemy down the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000259">shook him,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and knocked him over.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Then Kotick roared to the seals:</span>
   <span id="f000262">“I’ve done my best for you these five seasons past.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I’ve found you the island where you’ll be safe,</span>
   <span id="f000264">but unless your heads are dragged off your silly necks you won’t believe.</span>
   <span id="f000265">I’m going to teach you now.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Look out for yourselves!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">Limmershin told me that never in his life – and Limmershin sees ten thousand big seals fighting every year – never in all his little life did he see anything like Kotick’s charge into the nurseries.</span>
   <span id="f000268">He flung himself at the biggest sea catch he could find,</span>
   <span id="f000269">caught him by the throat,</span>
   <span id="f000270">choked him and bumped him and banged him till he grunted for mercy,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and then threw him aside and attacked the next.</span>
   <span id="f000272">You see,</span>
   <span id="f000273">Kotick had never fasted for four months as the big seals did every year,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and his deep-sea swimming trips kept him in perfect condition,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and,</span>
   <span id="f000276">best of all,</span>
   <span id="f000277">he had never fought before.</span>
   <span id="f000278">His curly white mane stood up with rage,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and his eyes flamed,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and his big dog teeth glistened,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and he was splendid to look at.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Old Sea Catch,</span>
   <span id="f000283">his father,</span>
   <span id="f000284">saw him tearing past,</span>
   <span id="f000285">hauling the grizzled old seals about as though they had been halibut,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and upsetting the young bachelors in all directions;</span>
   <span id="f000287">and Sea Catch gave a roar and shouted:</span>
   <span id="f000288">“He may be a fool,</span>
   <span id="f000289">but he is the best fighter on the beaches!</span>
   <span id="f000290">Don’t tackle your father,</span>
   <span id="f000291">my son!</span>
   <span id="f000292">He’s with you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">Kotick roared in answer,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and old Sea Catch waddled in with his mustache on end,</span>
   <span id="f000295">blowing like a locomotive,</span>
   <span id="f000296">while Matkah and the seal that was going to marry Kotick cowered down and admired their men-folk.</span>
   <span id="f000297">It was a gorgeous fight,</span>
   <span id="f000298">for the two fought as long as there was a seal that dared lift up his head,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and when there were none they paraded grandly up and down the beach side by side,</span>
   <span id="f000300">bellowing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">At night,</span>
   <span id="f000302">just as the Northern Lights were winking and flashing through the fog,</span>
   <span id="f000303">Kotick climbed a bare rock and looked down on the scattered nurseries and the torn and bleeding seals.</span>
   <span id="f000304">“Now,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000305">“I’ve taught you your lesson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“My wig!” said old Sea Catch,</span>
   <span id="f000307">boosting himself up stiffly,</span>
   <span id="f000308">for he was fearfully mauled.</span>
   <span id="f000309">“The Killer Whale himself could not have cut them up worse.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Son,</span>
   <span id="f000311">I’m proud of you,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and what’s more,</span>
   <span id="f000313">I’ll come with you to your island – if there is such a place.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Hear you,</span>
   <span id="f000315">fat pigs of the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Who comes with me to the Sea Cow’s tunnel?</span>
   <span id="f000317">Answer,</span>
   <span id="f000318">or I shall teach you again,” roared Kotick.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">There was a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down the beaches.</span>
   <span id="f000320">“We will come,” said thousands of tired voices.</span>
   <span id="f000321">“We will follow Kotick,</span>
   <span id="f000322">the White Seal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">Then Kotick dropped his head between his shoulders and shut his eyes proudly.</span>
   <span id="f000324">He was not a white seal any more,</span>
   <span id="f000325">but red from head to tail.</span>
   <span id="f000326">All the same he would have scorned to look at or touch one of his wounds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">A week later he and his army</span>
   <span id="f000328">(nearly ten thousand holluschickie and old seals)</span>
   <span id="f000329">went away north to the Sea Cow’s tunnel,</span>
   <span id="f000330">Kotick leading them,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and the seals that stayed at Novastoshnah called them idiots.</span>
   <span id="f000332">But next spring,</span>
   <span id="f000333">when they all met off the fishing banks of the Pacific,</span>
   <span id="f000334">Kotick’s seals told such tales of the new beaches beyond Sea Cow’s tunnel that more and more seals left Novastoshnah.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Of course it was not all done at once,</span>
   <span id="f000336">for the seals are not very clever,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and they need a long time to turn things over in their minds,</span>
   <span id="f000338">but year after year more seals went away from Novastoshnah,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and Lukannon,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and the other nurseries,</span>
   <span id="f000341">to the quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000342">sheltered beaches where Kotick sits all the summer through,</span>
   <span id="f000343">getting bigger and fatter and stronger each year,</span>
   <span id="f000344">while the holluschickie play around him,</span>
   <span id="f000345">in that sea where no man comes.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000346">Lukannon</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000347">This is the great deep-sea song that all the St.&#160;Paul seals sing when they are heading back to their beaches in the summer.</span>
   <span id="f000348">It is a sort of very sad seal National Anthem.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000349">I met my mates in the morning</span>
   <span id="f000350">(and,</span>
   <span id="f000351">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000352">but I am old!)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000353">Where roaring on the ledges the summer ground-swell rolled;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000354">I heard them lift the chorus that drowned the breakers’ song – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000355">The Beaches of Lukannon – two million voices strong.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">The song of pleasant stations beside the salt lagoons,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000357">The song of blowing squadrons that shuffled down the dunes,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000358">The song of midnight dances that churned the sea to flame – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000359">The Beaches of Lukannon – before the sealers came!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">I met my mates in the morning</span>
   <span id="f000361">(I’ll never meet them more!);<br /></span>
   <span id="f000362">They came and went in legions that darkened all the shore.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000363">And o’er the foam-flecked offing as far as voice could reach<br /></span>
   <span id="f000364">We hailed the landing-parties and we sang them up the beach.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">The Beaches of Lukannon – the winter wheat so tall – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000366">The dripping,</span>
   <span id="f000367">crinkled lichens,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and the sea-fog drenching all!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000369">The platforms of our playground,</span>
   <span id="f000370">all shining smooth and worn!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000371">The Beaches of Lukannon – the home where we were born!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">I met my mates in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000373">a broken,</span>
   <span id="f000374">scattered band.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000375">Men shoot us in the water and club us on the land;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000376">Men drive us to the Salt House like silly sheep and tame,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000377">And still we sing Lukannon – before the sealers came.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">Wheel down,</span>
   <span id="f000379">wheel down to southward;</span>
   <span id="f000380">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000381">Gooverooska,</span>
   <span id="f000382">go!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000383">And tell the Deep-Sea Viceroys the story of our woe;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000384">Ere,</span>
   <span id="f000385">empty as the shark’s egg the tempest flings ashore,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000386">The Beaches of Lukannon shall know their sons no more!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

