<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">"Rikki-Tikki-Tavi"</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">At the hole where he went in<br /></span>
   <span id="f000003">Red-Eye called to Wrinkle-Skin.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000004">Hear what little Red-Eye saith:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000005">“Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000006">come up and dance with death!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000007">Eye to eye and head to head,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000008">(Keep the measure,</span>
   <span id="f000009">Nag.)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000010">This shall end when one is dead;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000011">(At thy pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f000012">Nag.)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000013">Turn for turn and twist for twist – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000014">(Run and hide thee,</span>
   <span id="f000015">Nag.)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000016">Hah!</span>
   <span id="f000017">The hooded Death has missed!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000018">(Woe betide thee,</span>
   <span id="f000019">Nag!)</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000020">This is the story of the great war that Rikki-tikki-tavi fought single-handed,</span>
   <span id="f000021">through the bath-rooms of the big bungalow in Segowlee cantonment.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Darzee,</span>
   <span id="f000023">the Tailorbird,</span>
   <span id="f000024">helped him,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and Chuchundra,</span>
   <span id="f000026">the musk-rat,</span>
   <span id="f000027">who never comes out into the middle of the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000028">but always creeps round by the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000029">gave him advice,</span>
   <span id="f000030">but Rikki-tikki did the real fighting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">He was a mongoose,</span>
   <span id="f000032">rather like a little cat in his fur and his tail,</span>
   <span id="f000033">but quite like a weasel in his head and his habits.</span>
   <span id="f000034">His eyes and the end of his restless nose were pink.</span>
   <span id="f000035">He could scratch himself anywhere he pleased with any leg,</span>
   <span id="f000036">front or back,</span>
   <span id="f000037">that he chose to use.</span>
   <span id="f000038">He could fluff up his tail till it looked like a bottle brush,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and his war cry as he scuttled through the long grass was:</span>
   <span id="f000040">“Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">One day,</span>
   <span id="f000042">a high summer flood washed him out of the burrow where he lived with his father and mother,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and carried him,</span>
   <span id="f000044">kicking and clucking,</span>
   <span id="f000045">down a roadside ditch.</span>
   <span id="f000046">He found a little wisp of grass floating there,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and clung to it till he lost his senses.</span>
   <span id="f000048">When he revived,</span>
   <span id="f000049">he was lying in the hot sun on the middle of a garden path,</span>
   <span id="f000050">very draggled indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and a small boy was saying,</span>
   <span id="f000052">“Here’s a dead mongoose.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Let’s have a funeral.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“No,” said his mother,</span>
   <span id="f000055">“let’s take him in and dry him.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Perhaps he isn’t really dead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">They took him into the house,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and a big man picked him up between his finger and thumb and said he was not dead but half choked.</span>
   <span id="f000059">So they wrapped him in cotton wool,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and warmed him over a little fire,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and he opened his eyes and sneezed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“Now,” said the big man</span>
   <span id="f000063">(he was an Englishman who had just moved into the bungalow),</span>
   <span id="f000064">“don’t frighten him,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and we’ll see what he’ll do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">It is the hardest thing in the world to frighten a mongoose,</span>
   <span id="f000067">because he is eaten up from nose to tail with curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000068">The motto of all the mongoose family is “Run and find out,” and Rikki-tikki was a true mongoose.</span>
   <span id="f000069">He looked at the cotton wool,</span>
   <span id="f000070">decided that it was not good to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000071">ran all round the table,</span>
   <span id="f000072">sat up and put his fur in order,</span>
   <span id="f000073">scratched himself,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and jumped on the small boy’s shoulder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“Don’t be frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000076">Teddy,” said his father.</span>
   <span id="f000077">“That’s his way of making friends.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“Ouch!</span>
   <span id="f000079">He’s tickling under my chin,” said Teddy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">Rikki-tikki looked down between the boy’s collar and neck,</span>
   <span id="f000081">snuffed at his ear,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and climbed down to the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000083">where he sat rubbing his nose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">“Good gracious,” said Teddy’s mother,</span>
   <span id="f000085">“and that’s a wild creature!</span>
   <span id="f000086">I suppose he’s so tame because we’ve been kind to him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">“All mongooses are like that,” said her husband.</span>
   <span id="f000088">“If Teddy doesn’t pick him up by the tail,</span>
   <span id="f000089">or try to put him in a cage,</span>
   <span id="f000090">he’ll run in and out of the house all day long.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Let’s give him something to eat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">They gave him a little piece of raw meat.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Rikki-tikki liked it immensely,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and when it was finished he went out into the veranda and sat in the sunshine and fluffed up his fur to make it dry to the roots.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Then he felt better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“There are more things to find out about in this house,” he said to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000097">“than all my family could find out in all their lives.</span>
   <span id="f000098">I shall certainly stay and find out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">He spent all that day roaming over the house.</span>
   <span id="f000100">He nearly drowned himself in the bath-tubs,</span>
   <span id="f000101">put his nose into the ink on a writing table,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and burned it on the end of the big man’s cigar,</span>
   <span id="f000103">for he climbed up in the big man’s lap to see how writing was done.</span>
   <span id="f000104">At nightfall he ran into Teddy’s nursery to watch how kerosene lamps were lighted,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and when Teddy went to bed Rikki-tikki climbed up too.</span>
   <span id="f000106">But he was a restless companion,</span>
   <span id="f000107">because he had to get up and attend to every noise all through the night,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and find out what made it.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Teddy’s mother and father came in,</span>
   <span id="f000110">the last thing,</span>
   <span id="f000111">to look at their boy,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and Rikki-tikki was awake on the pillow.</span>
   <span id="f000113">“I don’t like that,” said Teddy’s mother.</span>
   <span id="f000114">“He may bite the child.” “He’ll do no such thing,” said the father.</span>
   <span id="f000115">“Teddy’s safer with that little beast than if he had a bloodhound to watch him.</span>
   <span id="f000116">If a snake came into the nursery now – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">But Teddy’s mother wouldn’t think of anything so awful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">Early in the morning Rikki-tikki came to early breakfast in the veranda riding on Teddy’s shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and they gave him banana and some boiled egg.</span>
   <span id="f000120">He sat on all their laps one after the other,</span>
   <span id="f000121">because every well-brought-up mongoose always hopes to be a house mongoose some day and have rooms to run about in;</span>
   <span id="f000122">and Rikki-tikki’s mother</span>
   <span id="f000123">(she used to live in the general’s house at Segowlee)</span>
   <span id="f000124">had carefully told Rikki what to do if ever he came across white men.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">Then Rikki-tikki went out into the garden to see what was to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000126">It was a large garden,</span>
   <span id="f000127">only half cultivated,</span>
   <span id="f000128">with bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000129">as big as summer-houses,</span>
   <span id="f000130">of Marshal Niel roses,</span>
   <span id="f000131">lime and orange trees,</span>
   <span id="f000132">clumps of bamboos,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and thickets of high grass.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Rikki-tikki licked his lips.</span>
   <span id="f000135">“This is a splendid hunting-ground,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and his tail grew bottle-brushy at the thought of it,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and he scuttled up and down the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000138">snuffing here and there till he heard very sorrowful voices in a thorn-bush.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">It was Darzee,</span>
   <span id="f000140">the Tailorbird,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000142">They had made a beautiful nest by pulling two big leaves together and stitching them up the edges with fibers,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and had filled the hollow with cotton and downy fluff.</span>
   <span id="f000144">The nest swayed to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000145">as they sat on the rim and cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“What is the matter?” asked Rikki-tikki.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“We are very miserable,” said Darzee.</span>
   <span id="f000148">“One of our babies fell out of the nest yesterday and Nag ate him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“H’m!” said Rikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000150">“that is very sad – but I am a stranger here.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Who is Nag?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">Darzee and his wife only cowered down in the nest without answering,</span>
   <span id="f000153">for from the thick grass at the foot of the bush there came a low hiss – a horrid cold sound that made Rikki-tikki jump back two clear feet.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Then inch by inch out of the grass rose up the head and spread hood of Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000155">the big black cobra,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and he was five feet long from tongue to tail.</span>
   <span id="f000157">When he had lifted one-third of himself clear of the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000158">he stayed balancing to and fro exactly as a dandelion tuft balances in the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and he looked at Rikki-tikki with the wicked snake’s eyes that never change their expression,</span>
   <span id="f000160">whatever the snake may be thinking of.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“Who is Nag?” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000162">“I am Nag.</span>
   <span id="f000163">The great God Brahm put his mark upon all our people,</span>
   <span id="f000164">when the first cobra spread his hood to keep the sun off Brahm as he slept.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Look,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and be afraid!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">He spread out his hood more than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and Rikki-tikki saw the spectacle-mark on the back of it that looks exactly like the eye part of a hook-and-eye fastening.</span>
   <span id="f000169">He was afraid for the minute,</span>
   <span id="f000170">but it is impossible for a mongoose to stay frightened for any length of time,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and though Rikki-tikki had never met a live cobra before,</span>
   <span id="f000172">his mother had fed him on dead ones,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and he knew that all a grown mongoose’s business in life was to fight and eat snakes.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Nag knew that too and,</span>
   <span id="f000175">at the bottom of his cold heart,</span>
   <span id="f000176">he was afraid.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Well,” said Rikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and his tail began to fluff up again,</span>
   <span id="f000179">“marks or no marks,</span>
   <span id="f000180">do you think it is right for you to eat fledglings out of a nest?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">Nag was thinking to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and watching the least little movement in the grass behind Rikki-tikki.</span>
   <span id="f000183">He knew that mongooses in the garden meant death sooner or later for him and his family,</span>
   <span id="f000184">but he wanted to get Rikki-tikki off his guard.</span>
   <span id="f000185">So he dropped his head a little,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and put it on one side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“Let us talk,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000188">“You eat eggs.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Why should not I eat birds?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“Behind you!</span>
   <span id="f000191">Look behind you!” sang Darzee.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">Rikki-tikki knew better than to waste time in staring.</span>
   <span id="f000193">He jumped up in the air as high as he could go,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and just under him whizzed by the head of Nagaina,</span>
   <span id="f000195">Nag’s wicked wife.</span>
   <span id="f000196">She had crept up behind him as he was talking,</span>
   <span id="f000197">to make an end of him.</span>
   <span id="f000198">He heard her savage hiss as the stroke missed.</span>
   <span id="f000199">He came down almost across her back,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and if he had been an old mongoose he would have known that then was the time to break her back with one bite;</span>
   <span id="f000201">but he was afraid of the terrible lashing return stroke of the cobra.</span>
   <span id="f000202">He bit,</span>
   <span id="f000203">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000204">but did not bite long enough,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and he jumped clear of the whisking tail,</span>
   <span id="f000206">leaving Nagaina torn and angry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">“Wicked,</span>
   <span id="f000208">wicked Darzee!” said Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000209">lashing up as high as he could reach toward the nest in the thorn-bush.</span>
   <span id="f000210">But Darzee had built it out of reach of snakes,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and it only swayed to and fro.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">Rikki-tikki felt his eyes growing red and hot</span>
   <span id="f000213">(when a mongoose’s eyes grow red,</span>
   <span id="f000214">he is angry),</span>
   <span id="f000215">and he sat back on his tail and hind legs like a little kangaroo,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and looked all round him,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and chattered with rage.</span>
   <span id="f000218">But Nag and Nagaina had disappeared into the grass.</span>
   <span id="f000219">When a snake misses its stroke,</span>
   <span id="f000220">it never says anything or gives any sign of what it means to do next.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Rikki-tikki did not care to follow them,</span>
   <span id="f000222">for he did not feel sure that he could manage two snakes at once.</span>
   <span id="f000223">So he trotted off to the gravel path near the house,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and sat down to think.</span>
   <span id="f000225">It was a serious matter for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">If you read the old books of natural history,</span>
   <span id="f000227">you will find they say that when the mongoose fights the snake and happens to get bitten,</span>
   <span id="f000228">he runs off and eats some herb that cures him.</span>
   <span id="f000229">That is not true.</span>
   <span id="f000230">The victory is only a matter of quickness of eye and quickness of foot – snake’s blow against mongoose’s jump – and as no eye can follow the motion of a snake’s head when it strikes,</span>
   <span id="f000231">this makes things much more wonderful than any magic herb.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Rikki-tikki knew he was a young mongoose,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and it made him all the more pleased to think that he had managed to escape a blow from behind.</span>
   <span id="f000234">It gave him confidence in himself,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and when Teddy came running down the path,</span>
   <span id="f000236">Rikki-tikki was ready to be petted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">But just as Teddy was stooping,</span>
   <span id="f000238">something wriggled a little in the dust,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and a tiny voice said:</span>
   <span id="f000240">“Be careful.</span>
   <span id="f000241">I am Death!” It was Karait,</span>
   <span id="f000242">the dusty brown snakeling that lies for choice on the dusty earth;</span>
   <span id="f000243">and his bite is as dangerous as the cobra’s.</span>
   <span id="f000244">But he is so small that nobody thinks of him,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and so he does the more harm to people.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">Rikki-tikki’s eyes grew red again,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and he danced up to Karait with the peculiar rocking,</span>
   <span id="f000248">swaying motion that he had inherited from his family.</span>
   <span id="f000249">It looks very funny,</span>
   <span id="f000250">but it is so perfectly balanced a gait that you can fly off from it at any angle you please,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and in dealing with snakes this is an advantage.</span>
   <span id="f000252">If Rikki-tikki had only known,</span>
   <span id="f000253">he was doing a much more dangerous thing than fighting Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000254">for Karait is so small,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and can turn so quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000256">that unless Rikki bit him close to the back of the head,</span>
   <span id="f000257">he would get the return stroke in his eye or his lip.</span>
   <span id="f000258">But Rikki did not know.</span>
   <span id="f000259">His eyes were all red,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and he rocked back and forth,</span>
   <span id="f000261">looking for a good place to hold.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Karait struck out.</span>
   <span id="f000263">Rikki jumped sideways and tried to run in,</span>
   <span id="f000264">but the wicked little dusty gray head lashed within a fraction of his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and he had to jump over the body,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and the head followed his heels close.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">Teddy shouted to the house:</span>
   <span id="f000268">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000269">look here!</span>
   <span id="f000270">Our mongoose is killing a snake.” And Rikki-tikki heard a scream from Teddy’s mother.</span>
   <span id="f000271">His father ran out with a stick,</span>
   <span id="f000272">but by the time he came up,</span>
   <span id="f000273">Karait had lunged out once too far,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and Rikki-tikki had sprung,</span>
   <span id="f000275">jumped on the snake’s back,</span>
   <span id="f000276">dropped his head far between his forelegs,</span>
   <span id="f000277">bitten as high up the back as he could get hold,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and rolled away.</span>
   <span id="f000279">That bite paralyzed Karait,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and Rikki-tikki was just going to eat him up from the tail,</span>
   <span id="f000281">after the custom of his family at dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000282">when he remembered that a full meal makes a slow mongoose,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and if he wanted all his strength and quickness ready,</span>
   <span id="f000284">he must keep himself thin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">He went away for a dust bath under the castor-oil bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000286">while Teddy’s father beat the dead Karait.</span>
   <span id="f000287">“What is the use of that?” thought Rikki-tikki.</span>
   <span id="f000288">“I have settled it all;” and then Teddy’s mother picked him up from the dust and hugged him,</span>
   <span id="f000289">crying that he had saved Teddy from death,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and Teddy’s father said that he was a providence,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and Teddy looked on with big scared eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Rikki-tikki was rather amused at all the fuss,</span>
   <span id="f000293">which,</span>
   <span id="f000294">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000295">he did not understand.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Teddy’s mother might just as well have petted Teddy for playing in the dust.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Rikki was thoroughly enjoying himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">That night at dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000299">walking to and fro among the wine-glasses on the table,</span>
   <span id="f000300">he might have stuffed himself three times over with nice things.</span>
   <span id="f000301">But he remembered Nag and Nagaina,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and though it was very pleasant to be patted and petted by Teddy’s mother,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and to sit on Teddy’s shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000304">his eyes would get red from time to time,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and he would go off into his long war cry of “Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">Teddy carried him off to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and insisted on Rikki-tikki sleeping under his chin.</span>
   <span id="f000308">Rikki-tikki was too well bred to bite or scratch,</span>
   <span id="f000309">but as soon as Teddy was asleep he went off for his nightly walk round the house,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and in the dark he ran up against Chuchundra,</span>
   <span id="f000311">the musk-rat,</span>
   <span id="f000312">creeping around by the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Chuchundra is a broken-hearted little beast.</span>
   <span id="f000314">He whimpers and cheeps all the night,</span>
   <span id="f000315">trying to make up his mind to run into the middle of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000316">But he never gets there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“Don’t kill me,” said Chuchundra,</span>
   <span id="f000318">almost weeping.</span>
   <span id="f000319">“Rikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000320">don’t kill me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“Do you think a snake-killer kills muskrats?” said Rikki-tikki scornfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“Those who kill snakes get killed by snakes,” said Chuchundra,</span>
   <span id="f000323">more sorrowfully than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000324">“And how am I to be sure that Nag won’t mistake me for you some dark night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">“There’s not the least danger,” said Rikki-tikki.</span>
   <span id="f000326">“But Nag is in the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and I know you don’t go there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“My cousin Chua,</span>
   <span id="f000329">the rat,</span>
   <span id="f000330">told me – ” said Chuchundra,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and then he stopped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“Told you what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“H’sh!</span>
   <span id="f000334">Nag is everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000335">Rikki-tikki.</span>
   <span id="f000336">You should have talked to Chua in the garden.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“I didn’t – so you must tell me.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Quick,</span>
   <span id="f000339">Chuchundra,</span>
   <span id="f000340">or I’ll bite you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">Chuchundra sat down and cried till the tears rolled off his whiskers.</span>
   <span id="f000342">“I am a very poor man,” he sobbed.</span>
   <span id="f000343">“I never had spirit enough to run out into the middle of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000344">H’sh!</span>
   <span id="f000345">I mustn’t tell you anything.</span>
   <span id="f000346">Can’t you hear,</span>
   <span id="f000347">Rikki-tikki?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">Rikki-tikki listened.</span>
   <span id="f000349">The house was as still as still,</span>
   <span id="f000350">but he thought he could just catch the faintest scratch-scratch in the world – a noise as faint as that of a wasp walking on a window-pane – the dry scratch of a snake’s scales on brick-work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“That’s Nag or Nagaina,” he said to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000352">“and he is crawling into the bath-room sluice.</span>
   <span id="f000353">You’re right,</span>
   <span id="f000354">Chuchundra;</span>
   <span id="f000355">I should have talked to Chua.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">He stole off to Teddy’s bath-room,</span>
   <span id="f000357">but there was nothing there,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and then to Teddy’s mother’s bathroom.</span>
   <span id="f000359">At the bottom of the smooth plaster wall there was a brick pulled out to make a sluice for the bath water,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and as Rikki-tikki stole in by the masonry curb where the bath is put,</span>
   <span id="f000361">he heard Nag and Nagaina whispering together outside in the moonlight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">“When the house is emptied of people,” said Nagaina to her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000363">“he will have to go away,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and then the garden will be our own again.</span>
   <span id="f000365">Go in quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and remember that the big man who killed Karait is the first one to bite.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Then come out and tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and we will hunt for Rikki-tikki together.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“But are you sure that there is anything to be gained by killing the people?” said Nag.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">“Everything.</span>
   <span id="f000371">When there were no people in the bungalow,</span>
   <span id="f000372">did we have any mongoose in the garden?</span>
   <span id="f000373">So long as the bungalow is empty,</span>
   <span id="f000374">we are king and queen of the garden;</span>
   <span id="f000375">and remember that as soon as our eggs in the melon bed hatch</span>
   <span id="f000376">(as they may tomorrow),</span>
   <span id="f000377">our children will need room and quiet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">“I had not thought of that,” said Nag.</span>
   <span id="f000379">“I will go,</span>
   <span id="f000380">but there is no need that we should hunt for Rikki-tikki afterward.</span>
   <span id="f000381">I will kill the big man and his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and the child if I can,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and come away quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Then the bungalow will be empty,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and Rikki-tikki will go.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">Rikki-tikki tingled all over with rage and hatred at this,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and then Nag’s head came through the sluice,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and his five feet of cold body followed it.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Angry as he was,</span>
   <span id="f000390">Rikki-tikki was very frightened as he saw the size of the big cobra.</span>
   <span id="f000391">Nag coiled himself up,</span>
   <span id="f000392">raised his head,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and looked into the bathroom in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and Rikki could see his eyes glitter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000396">if I kill him here,</span>
   <span id="f000397">Nagaina will know;</span>
   <span id="f000398">and if I fight him on the open floor,</span>
   <span id="f000399">the odds are in his favor.</span>
   <span id="f000400">What am I to do?” said Rikki-tikki-tavi.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">Nag waved to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and then Rikki-tikki heard him drinking from the biggest water-jar that was used to fill the bath.</span>
   <span id="f000403">“That is good,” said the snake.</span>
   <span id="f000404">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000405">when Karait was killed,</span>
   <span id="f000406">the big man had a stick.</span>
   <span id="f000407">He may have that stick still,</span>
   <span id="f000408">but when he comes in to bathe in the morning he will not have a stick.</span>
   <span id="f000409">I shall wait here till he comes.</span>
   <span id="f000410">Nagaina – do you hear me?</span>
   <span id="f000411">– I shall wait here in the cool till daytime.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">There was no answer from outside,</span>
   <span id="f000413">so Rikki-tikki knew Nagaina had gone away.</span>
   <span id="f000414">Nag coiled himself down,</span>
   <span id="f000415">coil by coil,</span>
   <span id="f000416">round the bulge at the bottom of the water jar,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and Rikki-tikki stayed still as death.</span>
   <span id="f000418">After an hour he began to move,</span>
   <span id="f000419">muscle by muscle,</span>
   <span id="f000420">toward the jar.</span>
   <span id="f000421">Nag was asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and Rikki-tikki looked at his big back,</span>
   <span id="f000423">wondering which would be the best place for a good hold.</span>
   <span id="f000424">“If I don’t break his back at the first jump,” said Rikki,</span>
   <span id="f000425">“he can still fight.</span>
   <span id="f000426">And if he fights – O Rikki!” He looked at the thickness of the neck below the hood,</span>
   <span id="f000427">but that was too much for him;</span>
   <span id="f000428">and a bite near the tail would only make Nag savage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">“It must be the head”’ he said at last;</span>
   <span id="f000430">“the head above the hood.</span>
   <span id="f000431">And,</span>
   <span id="f000432">when I am once there,</span>
   <span id="f000433">I must not let go.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">Then he jumped.</span>
   <span id="f000435">The head was lying a little clear of the water jar,</span>
   <span id="f000436">under the curve of it;</span>
   <span id="f000437">and,</span>
   <span id="f000438">as his teeth met,</span>
   <span id="f000439">Rikki braced his back against the bulge of the red earthenware to hold down the head.</span>
   <span id="f000440">This gave him just one second’s purchase,</span>
   <span id="f000441">and he made the most of it.</span>
   <span id="f000442">Then he was battered to and fro as a rat is shaken by a dog – to and fro on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000443">up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and around in great circles,</span>
   <span id="f000445">but his eyes were red and he held on as the body cart-whipped over the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000446">upsetting the tin dipper and the soap dish and the flesh brush,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and banged against the tin side of the bath.</span>
   <span id="f000448">As he held he closed his jaws tighter and tighter,</span>
   <span id="f000449">for he made sure he would be banged to death,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and,</span>
   <span id="f000451">for the honor of his family,</span>
   <span id="f000452">he preferred to be found with his teeth locked.</span>
   <span id="f000453">He was dizzy,</span>
   <span id="f000454">aching,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and felt shaken to pieces when something went off like a thunderclap just behind him.</span>
   <span id="f000456">A hot wind knocked him senseless and red fire singed his fur.</span>
   <span id="f000457">The big man had been wakened by the noise,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and had fired both barrels of a shotgun into Nag just behind the hood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">Rikki-tikki held on with his eyes shut,</span>
   <span id="f000460">for now he was quite sure he was dead.</span>
   <span id="f000461">But the head did not move,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and the big man picked him up and said,</span>
   <span id="f000463">“It’s the mongoose again,</span>
   <span id="f000464">Alice.</span>
   <span id="f000465">The little chap has saved our lives now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">Then Teddy’s mother came in with a very white face,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and saw what was left of Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and Rikki-tikki dragged himself to Teddy’s bedroom and spent half the rest of the night shaking himself tenderly to find out whether he really was broken into forty pieces,</span>
   <span id="f000469">as he fancied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">When morning came he was very stiff,</span>
   <span id="f000471">but well pleased with his doings.</span>
   <span id="f000472">“Now I have Nagaina to settle with,</span>
   <span id="f000473">and she will be worse than five Nags,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and there’s no knowing when the eggs she spoke of will hatch.</span>
   <span id="f000475">Goodness!</span>
   <span id="f000476">I must go and see Darzee,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">Without waiting for breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000478">Rikki-tikki ran to the thornbush where Darzee was singing a song of triumph at the top of his voice.</span>
   <span id="f000479">The news of Nag’s death was all over the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000480">for the sweeper had thrown the body on the rubbish-heap.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000482">you stupid tuft of feathers!” said Rikki-tikki angrily.</span>
   <span id="f000483">“Is this the time to sing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“Nag is dead – is dead – is dead!” sang Darzee.</span>
   <span id="f000485">“The valiant Rikki-tikki caught him by the head and held fast.</span>
   <span id="f000486">The big man brought the bang-stick,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and Nag fell in two pieces!</span>
   <span id="f000488">He will never eat my babies again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">“All that’s true enough.</span>
   <span id="f000490">But where’s Nagaina?” said Rikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000491">looking carefully round him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">“Nagaina came to the bathroom sluice and called for Nag,” Darzee went on,</span>
   <span id="f000493">“and Nag came out on the end of a stick – the sweeper picked him up on the end of a stick and threw him upon the rubbish heap.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Let us sing about the great,</span>
   <span id="f000495">the red-eyed Rikki-tikki!” And Darzee filled his throat and sang.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“If I could get up to your nest,</span>
   <span id="f000497">I’d roll your babies out!” said Rikki-tikki.</span>
   <span id="f000498">“You don’t know when to do the right thing at the right time.</span>
   <span id="f000499">You’re safe enough in your nest there,</span>
   <span id="f000500">but it’s war for me down here.</span>
   <span id="f000501">Stop singing a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000502">Darzee.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">“For the great,</span>
   <span id="f000504">the beautiful Rikki-tikki’s sake I will stop,” said Darzee.</span>
   <span id="f000505">“What is it,</span>
   <span id="f000506">O Killer of the terrible Nag?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">“Where is Nagaina,</span>
   <span id="f000508">for the third time?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">“On the rubbish heap by the stables,</span>
   <span id="f000510">mourning for Nag.</span>
   <span id="f000511">Great is Rikki-tikki with the white teeth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">“Bother my white teeth!</span>
   <span id="f000513">Have you ever heard where she keeps her eggs?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">“In the melon bed,</span>
   <span id="f000515">on the end nearest the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000516">where the sun strikes nearly all day.</span>
   <span id="f000517">She hid them there weeks ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">“And you never thought it worth while to tell me?</span>
   <span id="f000519">The end nearest the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000520">you said?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">“Rikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000522">you are not going to eat her eggs?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“Not eat exactly;</span>
   <span id="f000524">no.</span>
   <span id="f000525">Darzee,</span>
   <span id="f000526">if you have a grain of sense you will fly off to the stables and pretend that your wing is broken,</span>
   <span id="f000527">and let Nagaina chase you away to this bush.</span>
   <span id="f000528">I must get to the melon-bed,</span>
   <span id="f000529">and if I went there now she’d see me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">Darzee was a feather-brained little fellow who could never hold more than one idea at a time in his head.</span>
   <span id="f000531">And just because he knew that Nagaina’s children were born in eggs like his own,</span>
   <span id="f000532">he didn’t think at first that it was fair to kill them.</span>
   <span id="f000533">But his wife was a sensible bird,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and she knew that cobra’s eggs meant young cobras later on.</span>
   <span id="f000535">So she flew off from the nest,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and left Darzee to keep the babies warm,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and continue his song about the death of Nag.</span>
   <span id="f000538">Darzee was very like a man in some ways.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">She fluttered in front of Nagaina by the rubbish heap and cried out,</span>
   <span id="f000540">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000541">my wing is broken!</span>
   <span id="f000542">The boy in the house threw a stone at me and broke it.” Then she fluttered more desperately than ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">Nagaina lifted up her head and hissed,</span>
   <span id="f000544">“You warned Rikki-tikki when I would have killed him.</span>
   <span id="f000545">Indeed and truly,</span>
   <span id="f000546">you’ve chosen a bad place to be lame in.” And she moved toward Darzee’s wife,</span>
   <span id="f000547">slipping along over the dust.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“The boy broke it with a stone!” shrieked Darzee’s wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“Well!</span>
   <span id="f000550">It may be some consolation to you when you’re dead to know that I shall settle accounts with the boy.</span>
   <span id="f000551">My husband lies on the rubbish heap this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000552">but before night the boy in the house will lie very still.</span>
   <span id="f000553">What is the use of running away?</span>
   <span id="f000554">I am sure to catch you.</span>
   <span id="f000555">Little fool,</span>
   <span id="f000556">look at me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">Darzee’s wife knew better than to do that,</span>
   <span id="f000558">for a bird who looks at a snake’s eyes gets so frightened that she cannot move.</span>
   <span id="f000559">Darzee’s wife fluttered on,</span>
   <span id="f000560">piping sorrowfully,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and never leaving the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000562">and Nagaina quickened her pace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">Rikki-tikki heard them going up the path from the stables,</span>
   <span id="f000564">and he raced for the end of the melon patch near the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000565">There,</span>
   <span id="f000566">in the warm litter above the melons,</span>
   <span id="f000567">very cunningly hidden,</span>
   <span id="f000568">he found twenty-five eggs,</span>
   <span id="f000569">about the size of a bantam’s eggs,</span>
   <span id="f000570">but with whitish skin instead of shell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000571">“I was not a day too soon,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000572">for he could see the baby cobras curled up inside the skin,</span>
   <span id="f000573">and he knew that the minute they were hatched they could each kill a man or a mongoose.</span>
   <span id="f000574">He bit off the tops of the eggs as fast as he could,</span>
   <span id="f000575">taking care to crush the young cobras,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and turned over the litter from time to time to see whether he had missed any.</span>
   <span id="f000577">At last there were only three eggs left,</span>
   <span id="f000578">and Rikki-tikki began to chuckle to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000579">when he heard Darzee’s wife screaming:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“Rikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000581">I led Nagaina toward the house,</span>
   <span id="f000582">and she has gone into the veranda,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000584">come quickly – she means killing!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">Rikki-tikki smashed two eggs,</span>
   <span id="f000586">and tumbled backward down the melon-bed with the third egg in his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and scuttled to the veranda as hard as he could put foot to the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000588">Teddy and his mother and father were there at early breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000589">but Rikki-tikki saw that they were not eating anything.</span>
   <span id="f000590">They sat stone-still,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and their faces were white.</span>
   <span id="f000592">Nagaina was coiled up on the matting by Teddy’s chair,</span>
   <span id="f000593">within easy striking distance of Teddy’s bare leg,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and she was swaying to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000595">singing a song of triumph.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">“Son of the big man that killed Nag,” she hissed,</span>
   <span id="f000597">“stay still.</span>
   <span id="f000598">I am not ready yet.</span>
   <span id="f000599">Wait a little.</span>
   <span id="f000600">Keep very still,</span>
   <span id="f000601">all you three!</span>
   <span id="f000602">If you move I strike,</span>
   <span id="f000603">and if you do not move I strike.</span>
   <span id="f000604">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000605">foolish people,</span>
   <span id="f000606">who killed my Nag!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000607">Teddy’s eyes were fixed on his father,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and all his father could do was to whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000609">“Sit still,</span>
   <span id="f000610">Teddy.</span>
   <span id="f000611">You mustn’t move.</span>
   <span id="f000612">Teddy,</span>
   <span id="f000613">keep still.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">Then Rikki-tikki came up and cried,</span>
   <span id="f000615">“Turn round,</span>
   <span id="f000616">Nagaina.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Turn and fight!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“All in good time,” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000619">without moving her eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000620">“I will settle my account with you presently.</span>
   <span id="f000621">Look at your friends,</span>
   <span id="f000622">Rikki-tikki.</span>
   <span id="f000623">They are still and white.</span>
   <span id="f000624">They are afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000625">They dare not move,</span>
   <span id="f000626">and if you come a step nearer I strike.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">“Look at your eggs,” said Rikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000628">“in the melon bed near the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000629">Go and look,</span>
   <span id="f000630">Nagaina!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">The big snake turned half around,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and saw the egg on the veranda.</span>
   <span id="f000633">“Ah-h!</span>
   <span id="f000634">Give it to me,” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">Rikki-tikki put his paws one on each side of the egg,</span>
   <span id="f000636">and his eyes were blood-red.</span>
   <span id="f000637">“What price for a snake’s egg?</span>
   <span id="f000638">For a young cobra?</span>
   <span id="f000639">For a young king cobra?</span>
   <span id="f000640">For the last – the very last of the brood?</span>
   <span id="f000641">The ants are eating all the others down by the melon bed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000642">Nagaina spun clear round,</span>
   <span id="f000643">forgetting everything for the sake of the one egg.</span>
   <span id="f000644">Rikki-tikki saw Teddy’s father shoot out a big hand,</span>
   <span id="f000645">catch Teddy by the shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000646">and drag him across the little table with the tea-cups,</span>
   <span id="f000647">safe and out of reach of Nagaina.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">“Tricked!</span>
   <span id="f000649">Tricked!</span>
   <span id="f000650">Tricked!</span>
   <span id="f000651">Rikk-tck-tck!” chuckled Rikki-tikki.</span>
   <span id="f000652">“The boy is safe,</span>
   <span id="f000653">and it was I – I – I that caught Nag by the hood last night in the bathroom.” Then he began to jump up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000654">all four feet together,</span>
   <span id="f000655">his head close to the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000656">“He threw me to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000657">but he could not shake me off.</span>
   <span id="f000658">He was dead before the big man blew him in two.</span>
   <span id="f000659">I did it!</span>
   <span id="f000660">Rikki-tikki-tck-tck!</span>
   <span id="f000661">Come then,</span>
   <span id="f000662">Nagaina.</span>
   <span id="f000663">Come and fight with me.</span>
   <span id="f000664">You shall not be a widow long.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">Nagaina saw that she had lost her chance of killing Teddy,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and the egg lay between Rikki-tikki’s paws.</span>
   <span id="f000667">“Give me the egg,</span>
   <span id="f000668">Rikki-tikki.</span>
   <span id="f000669">Give me the last of my eggs,</span>
   <span id="f000670">and I will go away and never come back,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000671">lowering her hood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000673">you will go away,</span>
   <span id="f000674">and you will never come back.</span>
   <span id="f000675">For you will go to the rubbish heap with Nag.</span>
   <span id="f000676">Fight,</span>
   <span id="f000677">widow!</span>
   <span id="f000678">The big man has gone for his gun!</span>
   <span id="f000679">Fight!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000680">Rikki-tikki was bounding all round Nagaina,</span>
   <span id="f000681">keeping just out of reach of her stroke,</span>
   <span id="f000682">his little eyes like hot coals.</span>
   <span id="f000683">Nagaina gathered herself together and flung out at him.</span>
   <span id="f000684">Rikki-tikki jumped up and backward.</span>
   <span id="f000685">Again and again and again she struck,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and each time her head came with a whack on the matting of the veranda and she gathered herself together like a watch spring.</span>
   <span id="f000687">Then Rikki-tikki danced in a circle to get behind her,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and Nagaina spun round to keep her head to his head,</span>
   <span id="f000689">so that the rustle of her tail on the matting sounded like dry leaves blown along by the wind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">He had forgotten the egg.</span>
   <span id="f000691">It still lay on the veranda,</span>
   <span id="f000692">and Nagaina came nearer and nearer to it,</span>
   <span id="f000693">till at last,</span>
   <span id="f000694">while Rikki-tikki was drawing breath,</span>
   <span id="f000695">she caught it in her mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000696">turned to the veranda steps,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and flew like an arrow down the path,</span>
   <span id="f000698">with Rikki-tikki behind her.</span>
   <span id="f000699">When the cobra runs for her life,</span>
   <span id="f000700">she goes like a whip-lash flicked across a horse’s neck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">Rikki-tikki knew that he must catch her,</span>
   <span id="f000702">or all the trouble would begin again.</span>
   <span id="f000703">She headed straight for the long grass by the thorn-bush,</span>
   <span id="f000704">and as he was running Rikki-tikki heard Darzee still singing his foolish little song of triumph.</span>
   <span id="f000705">But Darzee’s wife was wiser.</span>
   <span id="f000706">She flew off her nest as Nagaina came along,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and flapped her wings about Nagaina’s head.</span>
   <span id="f000708">If Darzee had helped they might have turned her,</span>
   <span id="f000709">but Nagaina only lowered her hood and went on.</span>
   <span id="f000710">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000711">the instant’s delay brought Rikki-tikki up to her,</span>
   <span id="f000712">and as she plunged into the rat-hole where she and Nag used to live,</span>
   <span id="f000713">his little white teeth were clenched on her tail,</span>
   <span id="f000714">and he went down with her – and very few mongooses,</span>
   <span id="f000715">however wise and old they may be,</span>
   <span id="f000716">care to follow a cobra into its hole.</span>
   <span id="f000717">It was dark in the hole;</span>
   <span id="f000718">and Rikki-tikki never knew when it might open out and give Nagaina room to turn and strike at him.</span>
   <span id="f000719">He held on savagely,</span>
   <span id="f000720">and stuck out his feet to act as brakes on the dark slope of the hot,</span>
   <span id="f000721">moist earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000722">Then the grass by the mouth of the hole stopped waving,</span>
   <span id="f000723">and Darzee said,</span>
   <span id="f000724">“It is all over with Rikki-tikki!</span>
   <span id="f000725">We must sing his death song.</span>
   <span id="f000726">Valiant Rikki-tikki is dead!</span>
   <span id="f000727">For Nagaina will surely kill him underground.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">So he sang a very mournful song that he made up on the spur of the minute,</span>
   <span id="f000729">and just as he got to the most touching part,</span>
   <span id="f000730">the grass quivered again,</span>
   <span id="f000731">and Rikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000732">covered with dirt,</span>
   <span id="f000733">dragged himself out of the hole leg by leg,</span>
   <span id="f000734">licking his whiskers.</span>
   <span id="f000735">Darzee stopped with a little shout.</span>
   <span id="f000736">Rikki-tikki shook some of the dust out of his fur and sneezed.</span>
   <span id="f000737">“It is all over,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000738">“The widow will never come out again.” And the red ants that live between the grass stems heard him,</span>
   <span id="f000739">and began to troop down one after another to see if he had spoken the truth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">Rikki-tikki curled himself up in the grass and slept where he was – slept and slept till it was late in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000741">for he had done a hard day’s work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000742">“Now,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000743">when he awoke,</span>
   <span id="f000744">“I will go back to the house.</span>
   <span id="f000745">Tell the Coppersmith,</span>
   <span id="f000746">Darzee,</span>
   <span id="f000747">and he will tell the garden that Nagaina is dead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000748">The Coppersmith is a bird who makes a noise exactly like the beating of a little hammer on a copper pot;</span>
   <span id="f000749">and the reason he is always making it is because he is the town crier to every Indian garden,</span>
   <span id="f000750">and tells all the news to everybody who cares to listen.</span>
   <span id="f000751">As Rikki-tikki went up the path,</span>
   <span id="f000752">he heard his “attention” notes like a tiny dinner gong,</span>
   <span id="f000753">and then the steady “Ding-dong-tock!</span>
   <span id="f000754">Nag is dead – dong!</span>
   <span id="f000755">Nagaina is dead!</span>
   <span id="f000756">Ding-dong-tock!” That set all the birds in the garden singing,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and the frogs croaking,</span>
   <span id="f000758">for Nag and Nagaina used to eat frogs as well as little birds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000759">When Rikki got to the house,</span>
   <span id="f000760">Teddy and Teddy’s mother</span>
   <span id="f000761">(she looked very white still,</span>
   <span id="f000762">for she had been fainting)</span>
   <span id="f000763">and Teddy’s father came out and almost cried over him;</span>
   <span id="f000764">and that night he ate all that was given him till he could eat no more,</span>
   <span id="f000765">and went to bed on Teddy’s shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000766">where Teddy’s mother saw him when she came to look late at night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">“He saved our lives and Teddy’s life,” she said to her husband.</span>
   <span id="f000768">“Just think,</span>
   <span id="f000769">he saved all our lives.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000770">Rikki-tikki woke up with a jump,</span>
   <span id="f000771">for the mongooses are light sleepers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000772">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000773">it’s you,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000774">“What are you bothering for?</span>
   <span id="f000775">All the cobras are dead.</span>
   <span id="f000776">And if they weren’t,</span>
   <span id="f000777">I’m here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">Rikki-tikki had a right to be proud of himself.</span>
   <span id="f000779">But he did not grow too proud,</span>
   <span id="f000780">and he kept that garden as a mongoose should keep it,</span>
   <span id="f000781">with tooth and jump and spring and bite,</span>
   <span id="f000782">till never a cobra dared show its head inside the walls.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000783">Darzee's Chant</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000784">(Sung in honor of Rikki-tikki-tavi)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">Singer and tailor am I – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000786">Doubled the joys that I know – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000787">Proud of my lilt to the sky,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000788">Proud of the house that I sew – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000789">Over and under,</span>
   <span id="f000790">so weave I my music – so weave I the house that I<br /></span>
   <span id="f000791">sew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">Sing to your fledglings again,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000793">Mother,</span>
   <span id="f000794">oh lift up your head!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000795">Evil that plagued us is slain,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000796">Death in the garden lies dead.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000797">Terror that hid in the roses is impotent – flung on the dung-hill<br /></span>
   <span id="f000798">and dead!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">Who has delivered us,</span>
   <span id="f000800">who?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000801">Tell me his nest and his name.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000802">Rikki,</span>
   <span id="f000803">the valiant,</span>
   <span id="f000804">the true,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000805">Tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000806">with eyeballs of flame,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000807">Rikk-tikki-tikki,</span>
   <span id="f000808">the ivory-fanged,</span>
   <span id="f000809">the hunter with eyeballs of<br /></span>
   <span id="f000810">flame!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">Give him the Thanks of the Birds,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000812">Bowing with tail feathers spread!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000813">Praise him with nightingale words – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000814">Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000815">I will praise him instead.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000816">Hear!</span>
   <span id="f000817">I will sing you the praise of the bottle-tailed Rikki,</span>
   <span id="f000818">with<br /></span>
   <span id="f000819">eyeballs of red!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000820">(Here Rikki-tikki interrupted,</span>
   <span id="f000821">and the rest of the song is lost.)</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

