<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Toomai of the Elephants</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">I will remember what I was,</span>
   <span id="f000003">I am sick of rope and chain – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000004">I will remember my old strength and all my forest affairs.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000005">I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006">I will go out to my own kind,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and the wood-folk in their lairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000008">I will go out until the day,</span>
   <span id="f000009">until the morning break – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000010">Out to the wind’s untainted kiss,</span>
   <span id="f000011">the water’s clean caress;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000012">I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000013">I will revisit my lost loves,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and playmates masterless!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000015">Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000016">which means Black Snake,</span>
   <span id="f000017">had served the Indian Government in every way that an elephant could serve it for forty-seven years,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and as he was fully twenty years old when he was caught,</span>
   <span id="f000019">that makes him nearly seventy – a ripe age for an elephant.</span>
   <span id="f000020">He remembered pushing,</span>
   <span id="f000021">with a big leather pad on his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000022">at a gun stuck in deep mud,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and that was before the Afghan War of 1842,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and he had not then come to his full strength.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">His mother Radha Pyari,</span>
   <span id="f000026">– Radha the darling,</span>
   <span id="f000027">– who had been caught in the same drive with Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000028">told him,</span>
   <span id="f000029">before his little milk tusks had dropped out,</span>
   <span id="f000030">that elephants who were afraid always got hurt.</span>
   <span id="f000031">Kala Nag knew that that advice was good,</span>
   <span id="f000032">for the first time that he saw a shell burst he backed,</span>
   <span id="f000033">screaming,</span>
   <span id="f000034">into a stand of piled rifles,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and the bayonets pricked him in all his softest places.</span>
   <span id="f000036">So,</span>
   <span id="f000037">before he was twenty-five,</span>
   <span id="f000038">he gave up being afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India.</span>
   <span id="f000040">He had carried tents,</span>
   <span id="f000041">twelve hundred pounds’ weight of tents,</span>
   <span id="f000042">on the march in Upper India.</span>
   <span id="f000043">He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and had come back again in the steamer entitled,</span>
   <span id="f000047">so the soldiers said,</span>
   <span id="f000048">to the Abyssinian War medal.</span>
   <span id="f000049">He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid,</span>
   <span id="f000050">ten years later;</span>
   <span id="f000051">and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein.</span>
   <span id="f000052">There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">After that he was taken off timber-hauling,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and employed,</span>
   <span id="f000055">with a few score other elephants who were trained to the business,</span>
   <span id="f000056">in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government.</span>
   <span id="f000058">There is one whole department which does nothing else but hunt them,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and catch them,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and break them in,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and send them up and down the country as they are needed for work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and his tusks had been cut off short at five feet,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and bound round the ends,</span>
   <span id="f000065">to prevent them splitting,</span>
   <span id="f000066">with bands of copper;</span>
   <span id="f000067">but he could do more with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones.</span>
   <span id="f000068">When,</span>
   <span id="f000069">after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across the hills,</span>
   <span id="f000070">the forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and the big drop gate,</span>
   <span id="f000072">made of tree trunks lashed together,</span>
   <span id="f000073">jarred down behind them,</span>
   <span id="f000074">Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000075">at the word of command,</span>
   <span id="f000076">would go into that flaring,</span>
   <span id="f000077">trumpeting pandemonium</span>
   <span id="f000078">(generally at night,</span>
   <span id="f000079">when the flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances),</span>
   <span id="f000080">and,</span>
   <span id="f000081">picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob,</span>
   <span id="f000082">would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000084">the old wise Black Snake,</span>
   <span id="f000085">did not know,</span>
   <span id="f000086">for he had stood up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and,</span>
   <span id="f000088">curling up his soft trunk to be out of harm’s way,</span>
   <span id="f000089">had knocked the springing brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head,</span>
   <span id="f000090">that he had invented all by himself;</span>
   <span id="f000091">had knocked him over,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out with a gasp and a howl,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and there was only a fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“Yes,” said Big Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000095">his driver,</span>
   <span id="f000096">the son of Black Toomai who had taken him to Abyssinia,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who had seen him caught,</span>
   <span id="f000098">“there is nothing that the Black Snake fears except me.</span>
   <span id="f000099">He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and he will live to see four.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“He is afraid of me also,” said Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000102">standing up to his full height of four feet,</span>
   <span id="f000103">with only one rag upon him.</span>
   <span id="f000104">He was ten years old,</span>
   <span id="f000105">the eldest son of Big Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and,</span>
   <span id="f000107">according to custom,</span>
   <span id="f000108">he would take his father’s place on Kala Nag’s neck when he grew up,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and would handle the heavy iron ankus,</span>
   <span id="f000110">the elephant goad,</span>
   <span id="f000111">that had been worn smooth by his father,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and his grandfather,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and his great-grandfather.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">He knew what he was talking of;</span>
   <span id="f000115">for he had been born under Kala Nag’s shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000116">had played with the end of his trunk before he could walk,</span>
   <span id="f000117">had taken him down to water as soon as he could walk,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and Kala Nag would no more have dreamed of disobeying his shrill little orders than he would have dreamed of killing him on that day when Big Toomai carried the little brown baby under Kala Nag’s tusks,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and told him to salute his master that was to be.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“Yes,” said Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000121">“he is afraid of me,” and he took long strides up to Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000122">called him a fat old pig,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and made him lift up his feet one after the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“Wah!” said Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000125">“thou art a big elephant,” and he wagged his fluffy head,</span>
   <span id="f000126">quoting his father.</span>
   <span id="f000127">“The Government may pay for elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000128">but they belong to us mahouts.</span>
   <span id="f000129">When thou art old,</span>
   <span id="f000130">Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000131">there will come some rich rajah,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and he will buy thee from the Government,</span>
   <span id="f000133">on account of thy size and thy manners,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and then thou wilt have nothing to do but to carry gold earrings in thy ears,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and a gold howdah on thy back,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and a red cloth covered with gold on thy sides,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and walk at the head of the processions of the King.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Then I shall sit on thy neck,</span>
   <span id="f000139">O Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000140">with a silver ankus,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and men will run before us with golden sticks,</span>
   <span id="f000142">crying,</span>
   <span id="f000143">`Room for the King’s elephant!’ That will be good,</span>
   <span id="f000144">Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000145">but not so good as this hunting in the jungles.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“Umph!” said Big Toomai.</span>
   <span id="f000147">“Thou art a boy,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and as wild as a buffalo-calf.</span>
   <span id="f000149">This running up and down among the hills is not the best Government service.</span>
   <span id="f000150">I am getting old,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and I do not love wild elephants.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Give me brick elephant lines,</span>
   <span id="f000153">one stall to each elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and big stumps to tie them to safely,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and flat,</span>
   <span id="f000156">broad roads to exercise upon,</span>
   <span id="f000157">instead of this come-and-go camping.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Aha,</span>
   <span id="f000159">the Cawnpore barracks were good.</span>
   <span id="f000160">There was a bazaar close by,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and only three hours’ work a day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">Little Toomai remembered the Cawnpore elephant-lines and said nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000163">He very much preferred the camp life,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and hated those broad,</span>
   <span id="f000165">flat roads,</span>
   <span id="f000166">with the daily grubbing for grass in the forage reserve,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and the long hours when there was nothing to do except to watch Kala Nag fidgeting in his pickets.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">What Little Toomai liked was to scramble up bridle paths that only an elephant could take;</span>
   <span id="f000169">the dip into the valley below;</span>
   <span id="f000170">the glimpses of the wild elephants browsing miles away;</span>
   <span id="f000171">the rush of the frightened pig and peacock under Kala Nag’s feet;</span>
   <span id="f000172">the blinding warm rains,</span>
   <span id="f000173">when all the hills and valleys smoked;</span>
   <span id="f000174">the beautiful misty mornings when nobody knew where they would camp that night;</span>
   <span id="f000175">the steady,</span>
   <span id="f000176">cautious drive of the wild elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and the mad rush and blaze and hullabaloo of the last night’s drive,</span>
   <span id="f000178">when the elephants poured into the stockade like boulders in a landslide,</span>
   <span id="f000179">found that they could not get out,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and flung themselves at the heavy posts only to be driven back by yells and flaring torches and volleys of blank cartridge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">Even a little boy could be of use there,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and Toomai was as useful as three boys.</span>
   <span id="f000183">He would get his torch and wave it,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and yell with the best.</span>
   <span id="f000185">But the really good time came when the driving out began,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and the Keddah – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000187">the stockade – looked like a picture of the end of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and men had to make signs to one another,</span>
   <span id="f000189">because they could not hear themselves speak.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Then Little Toomai would climb up to the top of one of the quivering stockade posts,</span>
   <span id="f000191">his sun-bleached brown hair flying loose all over his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and he looking like a goblin in the torch-light.</span>
   <span id="f000193">And as soon as there was a lull you could hear his high-pitched yells of encouragement to Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000194">above the trumpeting and crashing,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and snapping of ropes,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and groans of the tethered elephants.</span>
   <span id="f000197">“Mael,</span>
   <span id="f000198">mael,</span>
   <span id="f000199">Kala Nag!</span>
   <span id="f000200">(Go on,</span>
   <span id="f000201">go on,</span>
   <span id="f000202">Black Snake!)</span>
   <span id="f000203">Dant do!</span>
   <span id="f000204">(Give him the tusk!)</span>
   <span id="f000205">Somalo!</span>
   <span id="f000206">Somalo!</span>
   <span id="f000207">(Careful,</span>
   <span id="f000208">careful!)</span>
   <span id="f000209">Maro!</span>
   <span id="f000210">Mar!</span>
   <span id="f000211">(Hit him,</span>
   <span id="f000212">hit him!)</span>
   <span id="f000213">Mind the post!</span>
   <span id="f000214">Arre!</span>
   <span id="f000215">Arre!</span>
   <span id="f000216">Hai!</span>
   <span id="f000217">Yai!</span>
   <span id="f000218">Kya-a-ah!” he would shout,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and the big fight between Kala Nag and the wild elephant would sway to and fro across the Keddah,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and the old elephant catchers would wipe the sweat out of their eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and find time to nod to Little Toomai wriggling with joy on the top of the posts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">He did more than wriggle.</span>
   <span id="f000223">One night he slid down from the post and slipped in between the elephants and threw up the loose end of a rope,</span>
   <span id="f000224">which had dropped,</span>
   <span id="f000225">to a driver who was trying to get a purchase on the leg of a kicking young calf</span>
   <span id="f000226">(calves always give more trouble than full-grown animals).</span>
   <span id="f000227">Kala Nag saw him,</span>
   <span id="f000228">caught him in his trunk,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and handed him up to Big Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000230">who slapped him then and there,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and put him back on the post.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">Next morning he gave him a scolding and said,</span>
   <span id="f000233">“Are not good brick elephant lines and a little tent carrying enough,</span>
   <span id="f000234">that thou must needs go elephant catching on thy own account,</span>
   <span id="f000235">little worthless?</span>
   <span id="f000236">Now those foolish hunters,</span>
   <span id="f000237">whose pay is less than my pay,</span>
   <span id="f000238">have spoken to Petersen Sahib of the matter.” Little Toomai was frightened.</span>
   <span id="f000239">He did not know much of white men,</span>
   <span id="f000240">but Petersen Sahib was the greatest white man in the world to him.</span>
   <span id="f000241">He was the head of all the Keddah operations – the man who caught all the elephants for the Government of India,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and who knew more about the ways of elephants than any living man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“What – what will happen?” said Little Toomai.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“Happen!</span>
   <span id="f000245">The worst that can happen.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Petersen Sahib is a madman.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Else why should he go hunting these wild devils?</span>
   <span id="f000248">He may even require thee to be an elephant catcher,</span>
   <span id="f000249">to sleep anywhere in these fever-filled jungles,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and at last to be trampled to death in the Keddah.</span>
   <span id="f000251">It is well that this nonsense ends safely.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Next week the catching is over,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and we of the plains are sent back to our stations.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Then we will march on smooth roads,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and forget all this hunting.</span>
   <span id="f000256">But,</span>
   <span id="f000257">son,</span>
   <span id="f000258">I am angry that thou shouldst meddle in the business that belongs to these dirty Assamese jungle folk.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Kala Nag will obey none but me,</span>
   <span id="f000260">so I must go with him into the Keddah,</span>
   <span id="f000261">but he is only a fighting elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and he does not help to rope them.</span>
   <span id="f000263">So I sit at my ease,</span>
   <span id="f000264">as befits a mahout,</span>
   <span id="f000265">– not a mere hunter,</span>
   <span id="f000266">– a mahout,</span>
   <span id="f000267">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and a man who gets a pension at the end of his service.</span>
   <span id="f000269">Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah?</span>
   <span id="f000270">Bad one!</span>
   <span id="f000271">Wicked one!</span>
   <span id="f000272">Worthless son!</span>
   <span id="f000273">Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and see that there are no thorns in his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000275">Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter – a follower of elephant’s foot tracks,</span>
   <span id="f000276">a jungle bear.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Bah!</span>
   <span id="f000278">Shame!</span>
   <span id="f000279">Go!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">Little Toomai went off without saying a word,</span>
   <span id="f000281">but he told Kala Nag all his grievances while he was examining his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000282">“No matter,” said Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000283">turning up the fringe of Kala Nag’s huge right ear.</span>
   <span id="f000284">“They have said my name to Petersen Sahib,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and perhaps – and perhaps – and perhaps – who knows?</span>
   <span id="f000286">Hai!</span>
   <span id="f000287">That is a big thorn that I have pulled out!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">The next few days were spent in getting the elephants together,</span>
   <span id="f000289">in walking the newly caught wild elephants up and down between a couple of tame ones to prevent them giving too much trouble on the downward march to the plains,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and in taking stock of the blankets and ropes and things that had been worn out or lost in the forest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">Petersen Sahib came in on his clever she-elephant Pudmini;</span>
   <span id="f000292">he had been paying off other camps among the hills,</span>
   <span id="f000293">for the season was coming to an end,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and there was a native clerk sitting at a table under a tree,</span>
   <span id="f000295">to pay the drivers their wages.</span>
   <span id="f000296">As each man was paid he went back to his elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and joined the line that stood ready to start.</span>
   <span id="f000298">The catchers,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and hunters,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and beaters,</span>
   <span id="f000301">the men of the regular Keddah,</span>
   <span id="f000302">who stayed in the jungle year in and year out,</span>
   <span id="f000303">sat on the backs of the elephants that belonged to Petersen Sahib’s permanent force,</span>
   <span id="f000304">or leaned against the trees with their guns across their arms,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and made fun of the drivers who were going away,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and laughed when the newly caught elephants broke the line and ran about.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">Big Toomai went up to the clerk with Little Toomai behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and Machua Appa,</span>
   <span id="f000309">the head tracker,</span>
   <span id="f000310">said in an undertone to a friend of his,</span>
   <span id="f000311">“There goes one piece of good elephant stuff at least.</span>
   <span id="f000312">’Tis a pity to send that young jungle-cock to molt in the plains.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">Now Petersen Sahib had ears all over him,</span>
   <span id="f000314">as a man must have who listens to the most silent of all living things – the wild elephant.</span>
   <span id="f000315">He turned where he was lying all along on Pudmini’s back and said,</span>
   <span id="f000316">“What is that?</span>
   <span id="f000317">I did not know of a man among the plains-drivers who had wit enough to rope even a dead elephant.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“This is not a man,</span>
   <span id="f000319">but a boy.</span>
   <span id="f000320">He went into the Keddah at the last drive,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and threw Barmao there the rope,</span>
   <span id="f000322">when we were trying to get that young calf with the blotch on his shoulder away from his mother.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">Machua Appa pointed at Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and Petersen Sahib looked,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and Little Toomai bowed to the earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“He throw a rope?</span>
   <span id="f000327">He is smaller than a picket-pin.</span>
   <span id="f000328">Little one,</span>
   <span id="f000329">what is thy name?” said Petersen Sahib.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">Little Toomai was too frightened to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000331">but Kala Nag was behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and Toomai made a sign with his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and the elephant caught him up in his trunk and held him level with Pudmini’s forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000334">in front of the great Petersen Sahib.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Then Little Toomai covered his face with his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000336">for he was only a child,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and except where elephants were concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000338">he was just as bashful as a child could be.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“Oho!” said Petersen Sahib,</span>
   <span id="f000340">smiling underneath his mustache,</span>
   <span id="f000341">“and why didst thou teach thy elephant that trick?</span>
   <span id="f000342">Was it to help thee steal green corn from the roofs of the houses when the ears are put out to dry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">“Not green corn,</span>
   <span id="f000344">Protector of the Poor,</span>
   <span id="f000345">– melons,” said Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and all the men sitting about broke into a roar of laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000347">Most of them had taught their elephants that trick when they were boys.</span>
   <span id="f000348">Little Toomai was hanging eight feet up in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and he wished very much that he were eight feet underground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“He is Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000351">my son,</span>
   <span id="f000352">Sahib,” said Big Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000353">scowling.</span>
   <span id="f000354">“He is a very bad boy,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and he will end in a jail,</span>
   <span id="f000356">Sahib.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“Of that I have my doubts,” said Petersen Sahib.</span>
   <span id="f000358">“A boy who can face a full Keddah at his age does not end in jails.</span>
   <span id="f000359">See,</span>
   <span id="f000360">little one,</span>
   <span id="f000361">here are four annas to spend in sweetmeats because thou hast a little head under that great thatch of hair.</span>
   <span id="f000362">In time thou mayest become a hunter too.” Big Toomai scowled more than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000363">“Remember,</span>
   <span id="f000364">though,</span>
   <span id="f000365">that Keddahs are not good for children to play in,” Petersen Sahib went on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“Must I never go there,</span>
   <span id="f000367">Sahib?” asked Little Toomai with a big gasp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“Yes.” Petersen Sahib smiled again.</span>
   <span id="f000369">“When thou hast seen the elephants dance.</span>
   <span id="f000370">That is the proper time.</span>
   <span id="f000371">Come to me when thou hast seen the elephants dance,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and then I will let thee go into all the Keddahs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">There was another roar of laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000374">for that is an old joke among elephant-catchers,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and it means just never.</span>
   <span id="f000376">There are great cleared flat places hidden away in the forests that are called elephants’ ball-rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000377">but even these are only found by accident,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and no man has ever seen the elephants dance.</span>
   <span id="f000379">When a driver boasts of his skill and bravery the other drivers say,</span>
   <span id="f000380">“And when didst thou see the elephants dance?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">Kala Nag put Little Toomai down,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and he bowed to the earth again and went away with his father,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and gave the silver four-anna piece to his mother,</span>
   <span id="f000384">who was nursing his baby brother,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and they all were put up on Kala Nag’s back,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and the line of grunting,</span>
   <span id="f000387">squealing elephants rolled down the hill path to the plains.</span>
   <span id="f000388">It was a very lively march on account of the new elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000389">who gave trouble at every ford,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and needed coaxing or beating every other minute.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">Big Toomai prodded Kala Nag spitefully,</span>
   <span id="f000392">for he was very angry,</span>
   <span id="f000393">but Little Toomai was too happy to speak.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Petersen Sahib had noticed him,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and given him money,</span>
   <span id="f000396">so he felt as a private soldier would feel if he had been called out of the ranks and praised by his commander-in-chief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“What did Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance?” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000398">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000399">softly to his mother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">Big Toomai heard him and grunted.</span>
   <span id="f000401">“That thou shouldst never be one of these hill buffaloes of trackers.</span>
   <span id="f000402">That was what he meant.</span>
   <span id="f000403">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000404">you in front,</span>
   <span id="f000405">what is blocking the way?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">An Assamese driver,</span>
   <span id="f000407">two or three elephants ahead,</span>
   <span id="f000408">turned round angrily,</span>
   <span id="f000409">crying:</span>
   <span id="f000410">“Bring up Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and knock this youngster of mine into good behavior.</span>
   <span id="f000412">Why should Petersen Sahib have chosen me to go down with you donkeys of the rice fields?</span>
   <span id="f000413">Lay your beast alongside,</span>
   <span id="f000414">Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and let him prod with his tusks.</span>
   <span id="f000416">By all the Gods of the Hills,</span>
   <span id="f000417">these new elephants are possessed,</span>
   <span id="f000418">or else they can smell their companions in the jungle.” Kala Nag hit the new elephant in the ribs and knocked the wind out of him,</span>
   <span id="f000419">as Big Toomai said,</span>
   <span id="f000420">“We have swept the hills of wild elephants at the last catch.</span>
   <span id="f000421">It is only your carelessness in driving.</span>
   <span id="f000422">Must I keep order along the whole line?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“Hear him!” said the other driver.</span>
   <span id="f000424">“We have swept the hills!</span>
   <span id="f000425">Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000426">Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000427">You are very wise,</span>
   <span id="f000428">you plains people.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Anyone but a mud-head who never saw the jungle would know that they know that the drives are ended for the season.</span>
   <span id="f000430">Therefore all the wild elephants to-night will – but why should I waste wisdom on a river-turtle?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">“What will they do?” Little Toomai called out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">“Ohe,</span>
   <span id="f000433">little one.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Art thou there?</span>
   <span id="f000435">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000436">I will tell thee,</span>
   <span id="f000437">for thou hast a cool head.</span>
   <span id="f000438">They will dance,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and it behooves thy father,</span>
   <span id="f000440">who has swept all the hills of all the elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000441">to double-chain his pickets to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">“What talk is this?” said Big Toomai.</span>
   <span id="f000443">“For forty years,</span>
   <span id="f000444">father and son,</span>
   <span id="f000445">we have tended elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and we have never heard such moonshine about dances.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000448">but a plainsman who lives in a hut knows only the four walls of his hut.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000450">leave thy elephants unshackled tonight and see what comes.</span>
   <span id="f000451">As for their dancing,</span>
   <span id="f000452">I have seen the place where – Bapree-bap!</span>
   <span id="f000453">How many windings has the Dihang River?</span>
   <span id="f000454">Here is another ford,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and we must swim the calves.</span>
   <span id="f000456">Stop still,</span>
   <span id="f000457">you behind there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">And in this way,</span>
   <span id="f000459">talking and wrangling and splashing through the rivers,</span>
   <span id="f000460">they made their first march to a sort of receiving camp for the new elephants.</span>
   <span id="f000461">But they lost their tempers long before they got there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">Then the elephants were chained by their hind legs to their big stumps of pickets,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and extra ropes were fitted to the new elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and the fodder was piled before them,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and the hill drivers went back to Petersen Sahib through the afternoon light,</span>
   <span id="f000466">telling the plains drivers to be extra careful that night,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and laughing when the plains drivers asked the reason.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">Little Toomai attended to Kala Nag’s supper,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and as evening fell,</span>
   <span id="f000470">wandered through the camp,</span>
   <span id="f000471">unspeakably happy,</span>
   <span id="f000472">in search of a tom-tom.</span>
   <span id="f000473">When an Indian child’s heart is full,</span>
   <span id="f000474">he does not run about and make a noise in an irregular fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000475">He sits down to a sort of revel all by himself.</span>
   <span id="f000476">And Little Toomai had been spoken to by Petersen Sahib!</span>
   <span id="f000477">If he had not found what he wanted,</span>
   <span id="f000478">I believe he would have been ill.</span>
   <span id="f000479">But the sweetmeat seller in the camp lent him a little tom-tom – a drum beaten with the flat of the hand – and he sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000480">cross-legged,</span>
   <span id="f000481">before Kala Nag as the stars began to come out,</span>
   <span id="f000482">the tom-tom in his lap,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and he thumped and he thumped and he thumped,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and the more he thought of the great honor that had been done to him,</span>
   <span id="f000485">the more he thumped,</span>
   <span id="f000486">all alone among the elephant fodder.</span>
   <span id="f000487">There was no tune and no words,</span>
   <span id="f000488">but the thumping made him happy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">The new elephants strained at their ropes,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and squealed and trumpeted from time to time,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and he could hear his mother in the camp hut putting his small brother to sleep with an old,</span>
   <span id="f000492">old song about the great God Shiv,</span>
   <span id="f000493">who once told all the animals what they should eat.</span>
   <span id="f000494">It is a very soothing lullaby,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and the first verse says:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000496">Shiv,</span>
   <span id="f000497">who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000498">Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000499">Gave to each his portion,</span>
   <span id="f000500">food and toil and fate,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000501">From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000502">All things made he – Shiva the Preserver.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000503">Mahadeo!</span>
   <span id="f000504">Mahadeo!</span>
   <span id="f000505">He made all – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000506">Thorn for the camel,</span>
   <span id="f000507">fodder for the kine,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000508">And mother’s heart for sleepy head,</span>
   <span id="f000509">O little son of mine!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000510">Little Toomai came in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of each verse,</span>
   <span id="f000511">till he felt sleepy and stretched himself on the fodder at Kala Nag’s side.</span>
   <span id="f000512">At last the elephants began to lie down one after another as is their custom,</span>
   <span id="f000513">till only Kala Nag at the right of the line was left standing up;</span>
   <span id="f000514">and he rocked slowly from side to side,</span>
   <span id="f000515">his ears put forward to listen to the night wind as it blew very slowly across the hills.</span>
   <span id="f000516">The air was full of all the night noises that,</span>
   <span id="f000517">taken together,</span>
   <span id="f000518">make one big silence – the click of one bamboo stem against the other,</span>
   <span id="f000519">the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth,</span>
   <span id="f000520">the scratch and squawk of a half-waked bird</span>
   <span id="f000521">(birds are awake in the night much more often than we imagine),</span>
   <span id="f000522">and the fall of water ever so far away.</span>
   <span id="f000523">Little Toomai slept for some time,</span>
   <span id="f000524">and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000525">and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked.</span>
   <span id="f000526">Little Toomai turned,</span>
   <span id="f000527">rustling in the fodder,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and watched the curve of his big back against half the stars in heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000529">and while he watched he heard,</span>
   <span id="f000530">so far away that it sounded no more than a pinhole of noise pricked through the stillness,</span>
   <span id="f000531">the “hoot-toot” of a wild elephant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been shot,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and their grunts at last waked the sleeping mahouts,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and they came out and drove in the picket pegs with big mallets,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and tightened this rope and knotted that till all was quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000536">One new elephant had nearly grubbed up his picket,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and Big Toomai took off Kala Nag’s leg chain and shackled that elephant fore-foot to hind-foot,</span>
   <span id="f000538">but slipped a loop of grass string round Kala Nag’s leg,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and told him to remember that he was tied fast.</span>
   <span id="f000540">He knew that he and his father and his grandfather had done the very same thing hundreds of times before.</span>
   <span id="f000541">Kala Nag did not answer to the order by gurgling,</span>
   <span id="f000542">as he usually did.</span>
   <span id="f000543">He stood still,</span>
   <span id="f000544">looking out across the moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000545">his head a little raised and his ears spread like fans,</span>
   <span id="f000546">up to the great folds of the Garo hills.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">“Tend to him if he grows restless in the night,” said Big Toomai to Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000548">and he went into the hut and slept.</span>
   <span id="f000549">Little Toomai was just going to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000550">too,</span>
   <span id="f000551">when he heard the coir string snap with a little “tang,” and Kala Nag rolled out of his pickets as slowly and as silently as a cloud rolls out of the mouth of a valley.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Little Toomai pattered after him,</span>
   <span id="f000553">barefooted,</span>
   <span id="f000554">down the road in the moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000555">calling under his breath,</span>
   <span id="f000556">“Kala Nag!</span>
   <span id="f000557">Kala Nag!</span>
   <span id="f000558">Take me with you,</span>
   <span id="f000559">O Kala Nag!” The elephant turned,</span>
   <span id="f000560">without a sound,</span>
   <span id="f000561">took three strides back to the boy in the moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000562">put down his trunk,</span>
   <span id="f000563">swung him up to his neck,</span>
   <span id="f000564">and almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000565">slipped into the forest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the lines,</span>
   <span id="f000567">and then the silence shut down on everything,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and Kala Nag began to move.</span>
   <span id="f000569">Sometimes a tuft of high grass washed along his sides as a wave washes along the sides of a ship,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and sometimes a cluster of wild-pepper vines would scrape along his back,</span>
   <span id="f000571">or a bamboo would creak where his shoulder touched it.</span>
   <span id="f000572">But between those times he moved absolutely without any sound,</span>
   <span id="f000573">drifting through the thick Garo forest as though it had been smoke.</span>
   <span id="f000574">He was going uphill,</span>
   <span id="f000575">but though Little Toomai watched the stars in the rifts of the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000576">he could not tell in what direction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000578">and Little Toomai could see the tops of the trees lying all speckled and furry under the moonlight for miles and miles,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and the blue-white mist over the river in the hollow.</span>
   <span id="f000580">Toomai leaned forward and looked,</span>
   <span id="f000581">and he felt that the forest was awake below him – awake and alive and crowded.</span>
   <span id="f000582">A big brown fruit-eating bat brushed past his ear;</span>
   <span id="f000583">a porcupine’s quills rattled in the thicket;</span>
   <span id="f000584">and in the darkness between the tree stems he heard a hog-bear digging hard in the moist warm earth,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and snuffing as it digged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">Then the branches closed over his head again,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and Kala Nag began to go down into the valley – not quietly this time,</span>
   <span id="f000588">but as a runaway gun goes down a steep bank – in one rush.</span>
   <span id="f000589">The huge limbs moved as steadily as pistons,</span>
   <span id="f000590">eight feet to each stride,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and the wrinkled skin of the elbow points rustled.</span>
   <span id="f000592">The undergrowth on either side of him ripped with a noise like torn canvas,</span>
   <span id="f000593">and the saplings that he heaved away right and left with his shoulders sprang back again and banged him on the flank,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and great trails of creepers,</span>
   <span id="f000595">all matted together,</span>
   <span id="f000596">hung from his tusks as he threw his head from side to side and plowed out his pathway.</span>
   <span id="f000597">Then Little Toomai laid himself down close to the great neck lest a swinging bough should sweep him to the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and he wished that he were back in the lines again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">The grass began to get squashy,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and Kala Nag’s feet sucked and squelched as he put them down,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and the night mist at the bottom of the valley chilled Little Toomai.</span>
   <span id="f000602">There was a splash and a trample,</span>
   <span id="f000603">and the rush of running water,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and Kala Nag strode through the bed of a river,</span>
   <span id="f000605">feeling his way at each step.</span>
   <span id="f000606">Above the noise of the water,</span>
   <span id="f000607">as it swirled round the elephant’s legs,</span>
   <span id="f000608">Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some trumpeting both upstream and down – great grunts and angry snortings,</span>
   <span id="f000609">and all the mist about him seemed to be full of rolling,</span>
   <span id="f000610">wavy shadows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000611">“Ai!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000612">half aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000613">his teeth chattering.</span>
   <span id="f000614">“The elephant-folk are out tonight.</span>
   <span id="f000615">It is the dance,</span>
   <span id="f000616">then!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">Kala Nag swashed out of the water,</span>
   <span id="f000618">blew his trunk clear,</span>
   <span id="f000619">and began another climb.</span>
   <span id="f000620">But this time he was not alone,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and he had not to make his path.</span>
   <span id="f000622">That was made already,</span>
   <span id="f000623">six feet wide,</span>
   <span id="f000624">in front of him,</span>
   <span id="f000625">where the bent jungle-grass was trying to recover itself and stand up.</span>
   <span id="f000626">Many elephants must have gone that way only a few minutes before.</span>
   <span id="f000627">Little Toomai looked back,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig’s eyes glowing like hot coals was just lifting himself out of the misty river.</span>
   <span id="f000629">Then the trees closed up again,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and they went on and up,</span>
   <span id="f000631">with trumpetings and crashings,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and the sound of breaking branches on every side of them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000633">At last Kala Nag stood still between two tree-trunks at the very top of the hill.</span>
   <span id="f000634">They were part of a circle of trees that grew round an irregular space of some three or four acres,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and in all that space,</span>
   <span id="f000636">as Little Toomai could see,</span>
   <span id="f000637">the ground had been trampled down as hard as a brick floor.</span>
   <span id="f000638">Some trees grew in the center of the clearing,</span>
   <span id="f000639">but their bark was rubbed away,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and the white wood beneath showed all shiny and polished in the patches of moonlight.</span>
   <span id="f000641">There were creepers hanging from the upper branches,</span>
   <span id="f000642">and the bells of the flowers of the creepers,</span>
   <span id="f000643">great waxy white things like convolvuluses,</span>
   <span id="f000644">hung down fast asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000645">But within the limits of the clearing there was not a single blade of green – nothing but the trampled earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">The moonlight showed it all iron gray,</span>
   <span id="f000647">except where some elephants stood upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and their shadows were inky black.</span>
   <span id="f000649">Little Toomai looked,</span>
   <span id="f000650">holding his breath,</span>
   <span id="f000651">with his eyes starting out of his head,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and as he looked,</span>
   <span id="f000653">more and more and more elephants swung out into the open from between the tree trunks.</span>
   <span id="f000654">Little Toomai could only count up to ten,</span>
   <span id="f000655">and he counted again and again on his fingers till he lost count of the tens,</span>
   <span id="f000656">and his head began to swim.</span>
   <span id="f000657">Outside the clearing he could hear them crashing in the undergrowth as they worked their way up the hillside,</span>
   <span id="f000658">but as soon as they were within the circle of the tree trunks they moved like ghosts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">There were white-tusked wild males,</span>
   <span id="f000660">with fallen leaves and nuts and twigs lying in the wrinkles of their necks and the folds of their ears;</span>
   <span id="f000661">fat,</span>
   <span id="f000662">slow-footed she-elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000663">with restless,</span>
   <span id="f000664">little pinky black calves only three or four feet high running under their stomachs;</span>
   <span id="f000665">young elephants with their tusks just beginning to show,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and very proud of them;</span>
   <span id="f000667">lanky,</span>
   <span id="f000668">scraggy old-maid elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000669">with their hollow anxious faces,</span>
   <span id="f000670">and trunks like rough bark;</span>
   <span id="f000671">savage old bull elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000672">scarred from shoulder to flank with great weals and cuts of bygone fights,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and the caked dirt of their solitary mud baths dropping from their shoulders;</span>
   <span id="f000674">and there was one with a broken tusk and the marks of the full-stroke,</span>
   <span id="f000675">the terrible drawing scrape,</span>
   <span id="f000676">of a tiger’s claws on his side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">They were standing head to head,</span>
   <span id="f000678">or walking to and fro across the ground in couples,</span>
   <span id="f000679">or rocking and swaying all by themselves – scores and scores of elephants.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000680">Toomai knew that so long as he lay still on Kala Nag’s neck nothing would happen to him,</span>
   <span id="f000681">for even in the rush and scramble of a Keddah drive a wild elephant does not reach up with his trunk and drag a man off the neck of a tame elephant.</span>
   <span id="f000682">And these elephants were not thinking of men that night.</span>
   <span id="f000683">Once they started and put their ears forward when they heard the chinking of a leg iron in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000684">but it was Pudmini,</span>
   <span id="f000685">Petersen Sahib’s pet elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000686">her chain snapped short off,</span>
   <span id="f000687">grunting,</span>
   <span id="f000688">snuffling up the hillside.</span>
   <span id="f000689">She must have broken her pickets and come straight from Petersen Sahib’s camp;</span>
   <span id="f000690">and Little Toomai saw another elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000691">one that he did not know,</span>
   <span id="f000692">with deep rope galls on his back and breast.</span>
   <span id="f000693">He,</span>
   <span id="f000694">too,</span>
   <span id="f000695">must have run away from some camp in the hills about.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">At last there was no sound of any more elephants moving in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and Kala Nag rolled out from his station between the trees and went into the middle of the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000698">clucking and gurgling,</span>
   <span id="f000699">and all the elephants began to talk in their own tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000700">and to move about.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">Still lying down,</span>
   <span id="f000702">Little Toomai looked down upon scores and scores of broad backs,</span>
   <span id="f000703">and wagging ears,</span>
   <span id="f000704">and tossing trunks,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and little rolling eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000706">He heard the click of tusks as they crossed other tusks by accident,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and the dry rustle of trunks twined together,</span>
   <span id="f000708">and the chafing of enormous sides and shoulders in the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and the incessant flick and hissh of the great tails.</span>
   <span id="f000710">Then a cloud came over the moon,</span>
   <span id="f000711">and he sat in black darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000712">But the quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000713">steady hustling and pushing and gurgling went on just the same.</span>
   <span id="f000714">He knew that there were elephants all round Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000715">and that there was no chance of backing him out of the assembly;</span>
   <span id="f000716">so he set his teeth and shivered.</span>
   <span id="f000717">In a Keddah at least there was torchlight and shouting,</span>
   <span id="f000718">but here he was all alone in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000719">and once a trunk came up and touched him on the knee.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000720">Then an elephant trumpeted,</span>
   <span id="f000721">and they all took it up for five or ten terrible seconds.</span>
   <span id="f000722">The dew from the trees above spattered down like rain on the unseen backs,</span>
   <span id="f000723">and a dull booming noise began,</span>
   <span id="f000724">not very loud at first,</span>
   <span id="f000725">and Little Toomai could not tell what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000726">But it grew and grew,</span>
   <span id="f000727">and Kala Nag lifted up one forefoot and then the other,</span>
   <span id="f000728">and brought them down on the ground – one-two,</span>
   <span id="f000729">one-two,</span>
   <span id="f000730">as steadily as trip-hammers.</span>
   <span id="f000731">The elephants were stamping all together now,</span>
   <span id="f000732">and it sounded like a war drum beaten at the mouth of a cave.</span>
   <span id="f000733">The dew fell from the trees till there was no more left to fall,</span>
   <span id="f000734">and the booming went on,</span>
   <span id="f000735">and the ground rocked and shivered,</span>
   <span id="f000736">and Little Toomai put his hands up to his ears to shut out the sound.</span>
   <span id="f000737">But it was all one gigantic jar that ran through him – this stamp of hundreds of heavy feet on the raw earth.</span>
   <span id="f000738">Once or twice he could feel Kala Nag and all the others surge forward a few strides,</span>
   <span id="f000739">and the thumping would change to the crushing sound of juicy green things being bruised,</span>
   <span id="f000740">but in a minute or two the boom of feet on hard earth began again.</span>
   <span id="f000741">A tree was creaking and groaning somewhere near him.</span>
   <span id="f000742">He put out his arm and felt the bark,</span>
   <span id="f000743">but Kala Nag moved forward,</span>
   <span id="f000744">still tramping,</span>
   <span id="f000745">and he could not tell where he was in the clearing.</span>
   <span id="f000746">There was no sound from the elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000747">except once,</span>
   <span id="f000748">when two or three little calves squeaked together.</span>
   <span id="f000749">Then he heard a thump and a shuffle,</span>
   <span id="f000750">and the booming went on.</span>
   <span id="f000751">It must have lasted fully two hours,</span>
   <span id="f000752">and Little Toomai ached in every nerve,</span>
   <span id="f000753">but he knew by the smell of the night air that the dawn was coming.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">The morning broke in one sheet of pale yellow behind the green hills,</span>
   <span id="f000755">and the booming stopped with the first ray,</span>
   <span id="f000756">as though the light had been an order.</span>
   <span id="f000757">Before Little Toomai had got the ringing out of his head,</span>
   <span id="f000758">before even he had shifted his position,</span>
   <span id="f000759">there was not an elephant in sight except Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000760">Pudmini,</span>
   <span id="f000761">and the elephant with the rope-galls,</span>
   <span id="f000762">and there was neither sign nor rustle nor whisper down the hillsides to show where the others had gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000763">Little Toomai stared again and again.</span>
   <span id="f000764">The clearing,</span>
   <span id="f000765">as he remembered it,</span>
   <span id="f000766">had grown in the night.</span>
   <span id="f000767">More trees stood in the middle of it,</span>
   <span id="f000768">but the undergrowth and the jungle grass at the sides had been rolled back.</span>
   <span id="f000769">Little Toomai stared once more.</span>
   <span id="f000770">Now he understood the trampling.</span>
   <span id="f000771">The elephants had stamped out more room – had stamped the thick grass and juicy cane to trash,</span>
   <span id="f000772">the trash into slivers,</span>
   <span id="f000773">the slivers into tiny fibers,</span>
   <span id="f000774">and the fibers into hard earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">“Wah!” said Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000776">and his eyes were very heavy.</span>
   <span id="f000777">“Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000778">my lord,</span>
   <span id="f000779">let us keep by Pudmini and go to Petersen Sahib’s camp,</span>
   <span id="f000780">or I shall drop from thy neck.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000781">The third elephant watched the two go away,</span>
   <span id="f000782">snorted,</span>
   <span id="f000783">wheeled round,</span>
   <span id="f000784">and took his own path.</span>
   <span id="f000785">He may have belonged to some little native king’s establishment,</span>
   <span id="f000786">fifty or sixty or a hundred miles away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000787">Two hours later,</span>
   <span id="f000788">as Petersen Sahib was eating early breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000789">his elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000790">who had been double chained that night,</span>
   <span id="f000791">began to trumpet,</span>
   <span id="f000792">and Pudmini,</span>
   <span id="f000793">mired to the shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000794">with Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000795">very footsore,</span>
   <span id="f000796">shambled into the camp.</span>
   <span id="f000797">Little Toomai’s face was gray and pinched,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and his hair was full of leaves and drenched with dew,</span>
   <span id="f000799">but he tried to salute Petersen Sahib,</span>
   <span id="f000800">and cried faintly:</span>
   <span id="f000801">“The dance – the elephant dance!</span>
   <span id="f000802">I have seen it,</span>
   <span id="f000803">and – I die!” As Kala Nag sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000804">he slid off his neck in a dead faint.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">But,</span>
   <span id="f000806">since native children have no nerves worth speaking of,</span>
   <span id="f000807">in two hours he was lying very contentedly in Petersen Sahib’s hammock with Petersen Sahib’s shooting-coat under his head,</span>
   <span id="f000808">and a glass of warm milk,</span>
   <span id="f000809">a little brandy,</span>
   <span id="f000810">with a dash of quinine,</span>
   <span id="f000811">inside of him,</span>
   <span id="f000812">and while the old hairy,</span>
   <span id="f000813">scarred hunters of the jungles sat three deep before him,</span>
   <span id="f000814">looking at him as though he were a spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000815">he told his tale in short words,</span>
   <span id="f000816">as a child will,</span>
   <span id="f000817">and wound up with:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000818">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000819">if I lie in one word,</span>
   <span id="f000820">send men to see,</span>
   <span id="f000821">and they will find that the elephant folk have trampled down more room in their dance-room,</span>
   <span id="f000822">and they will find ten and ten,</span>
   <span id="f000823">and many times ten,</span>
   <span id="f000824">tracks leading to that dance-room.</span>
   <span id="f000825">They made more room with their feet.</span>
   <span id="f000826">I have seen it.</span>
   <span id="f000827">Kala Nag took me,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and I saw.</span>
   <span id="f000829">Also Kala Nag is very leg-weary!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">Little Toomai lay back and slept all through the long afternoon and into the twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000831">and while he slept Petersen Sahib and Machua Appa followed the track of the two elephants for fifteen miles across the hills.</span>
   <span id="f000832">Petersen Sahib had spent eighteen years in catching elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and he had only once before found such a dance-place.</span>
   <span id="f000834">Machua Appa had no need to look twice at the clearing to see what had been done there,</span>
   <span id="f000835">or to scratch with his toe in the packed,</span>
   <span id="f000836">rammed earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">“The child speaks truth,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000838">“All this was done last night,</span>
   <span id="f000839">and I have counted seventy tracks crossing the river.</span>
   <span id="f000840">See,</span>
   <span id="f000841">Sahib,</span>
   <span id="f000842">where Pudmini’s leg-iron cut the bark of that tree!</span>
   <span id="f000843">Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000844">she was there too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000845">They looked at one another and up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000846">and they wondered.</span>
   <span id="f000847">For the ways of elephants are beyond the wit of any man,</span>
   <span id="f000848">black or white,</span>
   <span id="f000849">to fathom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">“Forty years and five,” said Machua Appa,</span>
   <span id="f000851">“have I followed my lord,</span>
   <span id="f000852">the elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000853">but never have I heard that any child of man had seen what this child has seen.</span>
   <span id="f000854">By all the Gods of the Hills,</span>
   <span id="f000855">it is – what can we say?” and he shook his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000856">When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal.</span>
   <span id="f000857">Petersen Sahib ate alone in his tent,</span>
   <span id="f000858">but he gave orders that the camp should have two sheep and some fowls,</span>
   <span id="f000859">as well as a double ration of flour and rice and salt,</span>
   <span id="f000860">for he knew that there would be a feast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000861">Big Toomai had come up hotfoot from the camp in the plains to search for his son and his elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000862">and now that he had found them he looked at them as though he were afraid of them both.</span>
   <span id="f000863">And there was a feast by the blazing campfires in front of the lines of picketed elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000864">and Little Toomai was the hero of it all.</span>
   <span id="f000865">And the big brown elephant catchers,</span>
   <span id="f000866">the trackers and drivers and ropers,</span>
   <span id="f000867">and the men who know all the secrets of breaking the wildest elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000868">passed him from one to the other,</span>
   <span id="f000869">and they marked his forehead with blood from the breast of a newly killed jungle-cock,</span>
   <span id="f000870">to show that he was a forester,</span>
   <span id="f000871">initiated and free of all the jungles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">And at last,</span>
   <span id="f000873">when the flames died down,</span>
   <span id="f000874">and the red light of the logs made the elephants look as though they had been dipped in blood too,</span>
   <span id="f000875">Machua Appa,</span>
   <span id="f000876">the head of all the drivers of all the Keddahs – Machua Appa,</span>
   <span id="f000877">Petersen Sahib’s other self,</span>
   <span id="f000878">who had never seen a made road in forty years:</span>
   <span id="f000879">Machua Appa,</span>
   <span id="f000880">who was so great that he had no other name than Machua Appa,</span>
   <span id="f000881">– leaped to his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000882">with Little Toomai held high in the air above his head,</span>
   <span id="f000883">and shouted:</span>
   <span id="f000884">“Listen,</span>
   <span id="f000885">my brothers.</span>
   <span id="f000886">Listen,</span>
   <span id="f000887">too,</span>
   <span id="f000888">you my lords in the lines there,</span>
   <span id="f000889">for I,</span>
   <span id="f000890">Machua Appa,</span>
   <span id="f000891">am speaking!</span>
   <span id="f000892">This little one shall no more be called Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000893">but Toomai of the Elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000894">as his great-grandfather was called before him.</span>
   <span id="f000895">What never man has seen he has seen through the long night,</span>
   <span id="f000896">and the favor of the elephant-folk and of the Gods of the Jungles is with him.</span>
   <span id="f000897">He shall become a great tracker.</span>
   <span id="f000898">He shall become greater than I,</span>
   <span id="f000899">even I,</span>
   <span id="f000900">Machua Appa!</span>
   <span id="f000901">He shall follow the new trail,</span>
   <span id="f000902">and the stale trail,</span>
   <span id="f000903">and the mixed trail,</span>
   <span id="f000904">with a clear eye!</span>
   <span id="f000905">He shall take no harm in the Keddah when he runs under their bellies to rope the wild tuskers;</span>
   <span id="f000906">and if he slips before the feet of the charging bull elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000907">the bull elephant shall know who he is and shall not crush him.</span>
   <span id="f000908">Aihai!</span>
   <span id="f000909">my lords in the chains,” – he whirled up the line of pickets – “here is the little one that has seen your dances in your hidden places,</span>
   <span id="f000910">– the sight that never man saw!</span>
   <span id="f000911">Give him honor,</span>
   <span id="f000912">my lords!</span>
   <span id="f000913">Salaam karo,</span>
   <span id="f000914">my children.</span>
   <span id="f000915">Make your salute to Toomai of the Elephants!</span>
   <span id="f000916">Gunga Pershad,</span>
   <span id="f000917">ahaa!</span>
   <span id="f000918">Hira Guj,</span>
   <span id="f000919">Birchi Guj,</span>
   <span id="f000920">Kuttar Guj,</span>
   <span id="f000921">ahaa!</span>
   <span id="f000922">Pudmini,</span>
   <span id="f000923">– thou hast seen him at the dance,</span>
   <span id="f000924">and thou too,</span>
   <span id="f000925">Kala Nag,</span>
   <span id="f000926">my pearl among elephants!</span>
   <span id="f000927">– ahaa!</span>
   <span id="f000928">Together!</span>
   <span id="f000929">To Toomai of the Elephants.</span>
   <span id="f000930">Barrao!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000931">And at that last wild yell the whole line flung up their trunks till the tips touched their foreheads,</span>
   <span id="f000932">and broke out into the full salute – the crashing trumpet-peal that only the Viceroy of India hears,</span>
   <span id="f000933">the Salaamut of the Keddah.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">But it was all for the sake of Little Toomai,</span>
   <span id="f000935">who had seen what never man had seen before – the dance of the elephants at night and alone in the heart of the Garo hills!</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000936">Shiv and the Grasshopper</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000937">(The song that Toomai’s mother sang to the baby)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000938">Shiv,</span>
   <span id="f000939">who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000940">Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000941">Gave to each his portion,</span>
   <span id="f000942">food and toil and fate,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000943">From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000944">All things made he – Shiva the Preserver.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000945">Mahadeo!</span>
   <span id="f000946">Mahadeo!</span>
   <span id="f000947">He made all,</span>
   <span id="f000948">– <br /></span>
   <span id="f000949">Thorn for the camel,</span>
   <span id="f000950">fodder for the kine,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000951">And mother’s heart for sleepy head,</span>
   <span id="f000952">O little son of mine!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">Wheat he gave to rich folk,</span>
   <span id="f000954">millet to the poor,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000955">Broken scraps for holy men that beg from door to door;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000956">Battle to the tiger,</span>
   <span id="f000957">carrion to the kite,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000958">And rags and bones to wicked wolves without the wall at night.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000959">Naught he found too lofty,</span>
   <span id="f000960">none he saw too low – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000961">Parbati beside him watched them come and go;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000962">Thought to cheat her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000963">turning Shiv to jest – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000964">Stole the little grasshopper and hid it in her breast.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000965">So she tricked him,</span>
   <span id="f000966">Shiva the Preserver.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000967">Mahadeo!</span>
   <span id="f000968">Mahadeo!</span>
   <span id="f000969">Turn and see.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000970">Tall are the camels,</span>
   <span id="f000971">heavy are the kine,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000972">But this was Least of Little Things,</span>
   <span id="f000973">O little son of mine!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000974">When the dole was ended,</span>
   <span id="f000975">laughingly she said,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000976">“Master,</span>
   <span id="f000977">of a million mouths,</span>
   <span id="f000978">is not one unfed?”<br /></span>
   <span id="f000979">Laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000980">Shiv made answer,</span>
   <span id="f000981">“All have had their part,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000982">Even he,</span>
   <span id="f000983">the little one,</span>
   <span id="f000984">hidden ’neath thy heart.”<br /></span>
   <span id="f000985">From her breast she plucked it,</span>
   <span id="f000986">Parbati the thief,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000987">Saw the Least of Little Things gnawed a new-grown leaf!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000988">Saw and feared and wondered,</span>
   <span id="f000989">making prayer to Shiv,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000990">Who hath surely given meat to all that live.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000991">All things made he – Shiva the Preserver.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000992">Mahadeo!</span>
   <span id="f000993">Mahadeo!</span>
   <span id="f000994">He made all,</span>
   <span id="f000995">– <br /></span>
   <span id="f000996">Thorn for the camel,</span>
   <span id="f000997">fodder for the kine,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000998">And mother’s heart for sleepy head,</span>
   <span id="f000999">O little son of mine!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

