<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Her Majesty's Servants<br />Parade Song of the Camp Animals</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">You can work it out by Fractions or by simple Rule of Three,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000003">But the way of Tweedle-dum is not the way of Tweedle-dee.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000004">You can twist it,</span>
   <span id="f000005">you can turn it,</span>
   <span id="f000006">you can plait it till you drop,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000007">But the way of Pilly Winky’s not the way of Winkie Pop!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000008">It had been raining heavily for one whole month – raining on a camp of thirty thousand men and thousands of camels,</span>
   <span id="f000009">elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000010">horses,</span>
   <span id="f000011">bullocks,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and mules all gathered together at a place called Rawal Pindi,</span>
   <span id="f000013">to be reviewed by the Viceroy of India.</span>
   <span id="f000014">He was receiving a visit from the Amir of Afghanistan – a wild king of a very wild country.</span>
   <span id="f000015">The Amir had brought with him for a bodyguard eight hundred men and horses who had never seen a camp or a locomotive before in their lives – savage men and savage horses from somewhere at the back of Central Asia.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Every night a mob of these horses would be sure to break their heel ropes and stampede up and down the camp through the mud in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000017">or the camels would break loose and run about and fall over the ropes of the tents,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and you can imagine how pleasant that was for men trying to go to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000019">My tent lay far away from the camel lines,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and I thought it was safe.</span>
   <span id="f000021">But one night a man popped his head in and shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000022">“Get out,</span>
   <span id="f000023">quick!</span>
   <span id="f000024">They’re coming!</span>
   <span id="f000025">My tent’s gone!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">I knew who “they” were,</span>
   <span id="f000027">so I put on my boots and waterproof and scuttled out into the slush.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Little Vixen,</span>
   <span id="f000029">my fox terrier,</span>
   <span id="f000030">went out through the other side;</span>
   <span id="f000031">and then there was a roaring and a grunting and bubbling,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and I saw the tent cave in,</span>
   <span id="f000033">as the pole snapped,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and begin to dance about like a mad ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000035">A camel had blundered into it,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and wet and angry as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000037">I could not help laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Then I ran on,</span>
   <span id="f000039">because I did not know how many camels might have got loose,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and before long I was out of sight of the camp,</span>
   <span id="f000041">plowing my way through the mud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and by that knew I was somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were stacked at night.</span>
   <span id="f000044">As I did not want to plowter about any more in the drizzle and the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000045">I put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and made a sort of wigwam with two or three rammers that I found,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and lay along the tail of another gun,</span>
   <span id="f000048">wondering where Vixen had got to,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and where I might be.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness and a grunt,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears.</span>
   <span id="f000052">He belonged to a screw-gun battery,</span>
   <span id="f000053">for I could hear the rattle of the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad.</span>
   <span id="f000054">The screw-guns are tiny little cannon made in two pieces,</span>
   <span id="f000055">that are screwed together when the time comes to use them.</span>
   <span id="f000056">They are taken up mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000057">anywhere that a mule can find a road,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and they are very useful for fighting in rocky country.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">Behind the mule there was a camel,</span>
   <span id="f000060">with his big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed hen’s.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Luckily,</span>
   <span id="f000063">I knew enough of beast language – not wild-beast language,</span>
   <span id="f000064">but camp-beast language,</span>
   <span id="f000065">of course – from the natives to know what he was saying.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">He must have been the one that flopped into my tent,</span>
   <span id="f000067">for he called to the mule,</span>
   <span id="f000068">“What shall I do?</span>
   <span id="f000069">Where shall I go?</span>
   <span id="f000070">I have fought with a white thing that waved,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and it took a stick and hit me on the neck.”</span>
   <span id="f000072">(That was my broken tent pole,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and I was very glad to know it.)</span>
   <span id="f000074">“Shall we run on?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000076">it was you,” said the mule,</span>
   <span id="f000077">“you and your friends,</span>
   <span id="f000078">that have been disturbing the camp?</span>
   <span id="f000079">All right.</span>
   <span id="f000080">You’ll be beaten for this in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000081">But I may as well give you something on account now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">I heard the harness jingle as the mule backed and caught the camel two kicks in the ribs that rang like a drum.</span>
   <span id="f000083">“Another time,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000084">“you’ll know better than to run through a mule battery at night,</span>
   <span id="f000085">shouting `Thieves and fire!’ Sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and keep your silly neck quiet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">The camel doubled up camel-fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000088">like a two-foot rule,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and sat down whimpering.</span>
   <span id="f000090">There was a regular beat of hoofs in the darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and a big troop-horse cantered up as steadily as though he were on parade,</span>
   <span id="f000092">jumped a gun tail,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and landed close to the mule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“It’s disgraceful,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000095">blowing out his nostrils.</span>
   <span id="f000096">“Those camels have racketed through our lines again – the third time this week.</span>
   <span id="f000097">How’s a horse to keep his condition if he isn’t allowed to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Who’s here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“I’m the breech-piece mule of number two gun of the First Screw Battery,” said the mule,</span>
   <span id="f000100">“and the other’s one of your friends.</span>
   <span id="f000101">He’s waked me up too.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Who are you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Number Fifteen,</span>
   <span id="f000104">E troop,</span>
   <span id="f000105">Ninth Lancers – Dick Cunliffe’s horse.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Stand over a little,</span>
   <span id="f000107">there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000109">beg your pardon,” said the mule.</span>
   <span id="f000110">“It’s too dark to see much.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Aren’t these camels too sickening for anything?</span>
   <span id="f000112">I walked out of my lines to get a little peace and quiet here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“My lords,” said the camel humbly,</span>
   <span id="f000114">“we dreamed bad dreams in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and we were very much afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000116">I am only a baggage camel of the 39th Native Infantry,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and I am not as brave as you are,</span>
   <span id="f000118">my lords.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“Then why didn’t you stay and carry baggage for the 39th Native Infantry,</span>
   <span id="f000120">instead of running all round the camp?” said the mule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“They were such very bad dreams,” said the camel.</span>
   <span id="f000122">“I am sorry.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Listen!</span>
   <span id="f000124">What is that?</span>
   <span id="f000125">Shall we run on again?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“Sit down,” said the mule,</span>
   <span id="f000127">“or you’ll snap your long stick-legs between the guns.” He cocked one ear and listened.</span>
   <span id="f000128">“Bullocks!” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000129">“Gun bullocks.</span>
   <span id="f000130">On my word,</span>
   <span id="f000131">you and your friends have waked the camp very thoroughly.</span>
   <span id="f000132">It takes a good deal of prodding to put up a gun-bullock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">I heard a chain dragging along the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and a yoke of the great sulky white bullocks that drag the heavy siege guns when the elephants won’t go any nearer to the firing,</span>
   <span id="f000135">came shouldering along together.</span>
   <span id="f000136">And almost stepping on the chain was another battery mule,</span>
   <span id="f000137">calling wildly for “Billy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“That’s one of our recruits,” said the old mule to the troop horse.</span>
   <span id="f000139">“He’s calling for me.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000141">youngster,</span>
   <span id="f000142">stop squealing.</span>
   <span id="f000143">The dark never hurt anybody yet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">The gun-bullocks lay down together and began chewing the cud,</span>
   <span id="f000145">but the young mule huddled close to Billy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“Things!” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000147">“Fearful and horrible,</span>
   <span id="f000148">Billy!</span>
   <span id="f000149">They came into our lines while we were asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000150">D’you think they’ll kill us?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“I’ve a very great mind to give you a number-one kicking,” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000152">“The idea of a fourteen-hand mule with your training disgracing the battery before this gentleman!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“Gently,</span>
   <span id="f000154">gently!” said the troop-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000155">“Remember they are always like this to begin with.</span>
   <span id="f000156">The first time I ever saw a man</span>
   <span id="f000157">(it was in Australia when I was a three-year-old)</span>
   <span id="f000158">I ran for half a day,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and if I’d seen a camel,</span>
   <span id="f000160">I should have been running still.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">Nearly all our horses for the English cavalry are brought to India from Australia,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and are broken in by the troopers themselves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“True enough,” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000164">“Stop shaking,</span>
   <span id="f000165">youngster.</span>
   <span id="f000166">The first time they put the full harness with all its chains on my back I stood on my forelegs and kicked every bit of it off.</span>
   <span id="f000167">I hadn’t learned the real science of kicking then,</span>
   <span id="f000168">but the battery said they had never seen anything like it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“But this wasn’t harness or anything that jingled,” said the young mule.</span>
   <span id="f000170">“You know I don’t mind that now,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000172">It was Things like trees,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and they fell up and down the lines and bubbled;</span>
   <span id="f000174">and my head-rope broke,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and I couldn’t find my driver,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and I couldn’t find you,</span>
   <span id="f000177">Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000178">so I ran off with – with these gentlemen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“H’m!” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000180">“As soon as I heard the camels were loose I came away on my own account.</span>
   <span id="f000181">When a battery – a screw-gun mule calls gun-bullocks gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000182">he must be very badly shaken up.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Who are you fellows on the ground there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">The gun bullocks rolled their cuds,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and answered both together:</span>
   <span id="f000186">“The seventh yoke of the first gun of the Big Gun Battery.</span>
   <span id="f000187">We were asleep when the camels came,</span>
   <span id="f000188">but when we were trampled on we got up and walked away.</span>
   <span id="f000189">It is better to lie quiet in the mud than to be disturbed on good bedding.</span>
   <span id="f000190">We told your friend here that there was nothing to be afraid of,</span>
   <span id="f000191">but he knew so much that he thought otherwise.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Wah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">They went on chewing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“That comes of being afraid,” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000195">“You get laughed at by gun-bullocks.</span>
   <span id="f000196">I hope you like it,</span>
   <span id="f000197">young un.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">The young mule’s teeth snapped,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and I heard him say something about not being afraid of any beefy old bullock in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000200">But the bullocks only clicked their horns together and went on chewing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000202">don’t be angry after you’ve been afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000203">That’s the worst kind of cowardice,” said the troop-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000204">“Anybody can be forgiven for being scared in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000205">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000206">if they see things they don’t understand.</span>
   <span id="f000207">We’ve broken out of our pickets,</span>
   <span id="f000208">again and again,</span>
   <span id="f000209">four hundred and fifty of us,</span>
   <span id="f000210">just because a new recruit got to telling tales of whip snakes at home in Australia till we were scared to death of the loose ends of our head-ropes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“That’s all very well in camp,” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000212">“I’m not above stampeding myself,</span>
   <span id="f000213">for the fun of the thing,</span>
   <span id="f000214">when I haven’t been out for a day or two.</span>
   <span id="f000215">But what do you do on active service?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000217">that’s quite another set of new shoes,” said the troop horse.</span>
   <span id="f000218">“Dick Cunliffe’s on my back then,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and drives his knees into me,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and all I have to do is to watch where I am putting my feet,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and to keep my hind legs well under me,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and be bridle-wise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“What’s bridle-wise?” said the young mule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“By the Blue Gums of the Back Blocks,” snorted the troop-horse,</span>
   <span id="f000225">“do you mean to say that you aren’t taught to be bridle-wise in your business?</span>
   <span id="f000226">How can you do anything,</span>
   <span id="f000227">unless you can spin round at once when the rein is pressed on your neck?</span>
   <span id="f000228">It means life or death to your man,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and of course that’s life and death to you.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Get round with your hind legs under you the instant you feel the rein on your neck.</span>
   <span id="f000231">If you haven’t room to swing round,</span>
   <span id="f000232">rear up a little and come round on your hind legs.</span>
   <span id="f000233">That’s being bridle-wise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“We aren’t taught that way,” said Billy the mule stiffly.</span>
   <span id="f000235">“We’re taught to obey the man at our head:</span>
   <span id="f000236">step off when he says so,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and step in when he says so.</span>
   <span id="f000238">I suppose it comes to the same thing.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000240">with all this fine fancy business and rearing,</span>
   <span id="f000241">which must be very bad for your hocks,</span>
   <span id="f000242">what do you do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“That depends,” said the troop-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000244">“Generally I have to go in among a lot of yelling,</span>
   <span id="f000245">hairy men with knives – long shiny knives,</span>
   <span id="f000246">worse than the farrier’s knives – and I have to take care that Dick’s boot is just touching the next man’s boot without crushing it.</span>
   <span id="f000247">I can see Dick’s lance to the right of my right eye,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and I know I’m safe.</span>
   <span id="f000249">I shouldn’t care to be the man or horse that stood up to Dick and me when we’re in a hurry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“Don’t the knives hurt?” said the young mule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000252">I got one cut across the chest once,</span>
   <span id="f000253">but that wasn’t Dick’s fault – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“A lot I should have cared whose fault it was,</span>
   <span id="f000255">if it hurt!” said the young mule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">“You must,” said the troop horse.</span>
   <span id="f000257">“If you don’t trust your man,</span>
   <span id="f000258">you may as well run away at once.</span>
   <span id="f000259">That’s what some of our horses do,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and I don’t blame them.</span>
   <span id="f000261">As I was saying,</span>
   <span id="f000262">it wasn’t Dick’s fault.</span>
   <span id="f000263">The man was lying on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and I stretched myself not to tread on him,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and he slashed up at me.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Next time I have to go over a man lying down I shall step on him – hard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“H’m!” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000268">“It sounds very foolish.</span>
   <span id="f000269">Knives are dirty things at any time.</span>
   <span id="f000270">The proper thing to do is to climb up a mountain with a well-balanced saddle,</span>
   <span id="f000271">hang on by all four feet and your ears too,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and creep and crawl and wriggle along,</span>
   <span id="f000273">till you come out hundreds of feet above anyone else on a ledge where there’s just room enough for your hoofs.</span>
   <span id="f000274">Then you stand still and keep quiet – never ask a man to hold your head,</span>
   <span id="f000275">young un – keep quiet while the guns are being put together,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and then you watch the little poppy shells drop down into the tree-tops ever so far below.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Don’t you ever trip?” said the troop-horse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen’s ear,” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000279">“Now and again perhaps a badly packed saddle will upset a mule,</span>
   <span id="f000280">but it’s very seldom.</span>
   <span id="f000281">I wish I could show you our business.</span>
   <span id="f000282">It’s beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000284">it took me three years to find out what the men were driving at.</span>
   <span id="f000285">The science of the thing is never to show up against the sky line,</span>
   <span id="f000286">because,</span>
   <span id="f000287">if you do,</span>
   <span id="f000288">you may get fired at.</span>
   <span id="f000289">Remember that,</span>
   <span id="f000290">young un.</span>
   <span id="f000291">Always keep hidden as much as possible,</span>
   <span id="f000292">even if you have to go a mile out of your way.</span>
   <span id="f000293">I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of climbing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“Fired at without the chance of running into the people who are firing!” said the troop-horse,</span>
   <span id="f000295">thinking hard.</span>
   <span id="f000296">“I couldn’t stand that.</span>
   <span id="f000297">I should want to charge – with Dick.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000299">no,</span>
   <span id="f000300">you wouldn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000301">You know that as soon as the guns are in position they’ll do all the charging.</span>
   <span id="f000302">That’s scientific and neat.</span>
   <span id="f000303">But knives – pah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">The baggage-camel had been bobbing his head to and fro for some time past,</span>
   <span id="f000305">anxious to get a word in edgewise.</span>
   <span id="f000306">Then I heard him say,</span>
   <span id="f000307">as he cleared his throat,</span>
   <span id="f000308">nervously:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“I – I – I have fought a little,</span>
   <span id="f000310">but not in that climbing way or that running way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Now you mention it,” said Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000313">“you don’t look as though you were made for climbing or running – much.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000315">how was it,</span>
   <span id="f000316">old Hay-bales?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“The proper way,” said the camel.</span>
   <span id="f000318">“We all sat down – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000320">my crupper and breastplate!” said the troop-horse under his breath.</span>
   <span id="f000321">“Sat down!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“We sat down – a hundred of us,” the camel went on,</span>
   <span id="f000323">“in a big square,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and the men piled our packs and saddles,</span>
   <span id="f000325">outside the square,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and they fired over our backs,</span>
   <span id="f000327">the men did,</span>
   <span id="f000328">on all sides of the square.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">“What sort of men?</span>
   <span id="f000330">Any men that came along?” said the troop-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000331">“They teach us in riding school to lie down and let our masters fire across us,</span>
   <span id="f000332">but Dick Cunliffe is the only man I’d trust to do that.</span>
   <span id="f000333">It tickles my girths,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and,</span>
   <span id="f000335">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000336">I can’t see with my head on the ground.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“What does it matter who fires across you?” said the camel.</span>
   <span id="f000338">“There are plenty of men and plenty of other camels close by,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and a great many clouds of smoke.</span>
   <span id="f000340">I am not frightened then.</span>
   <span id="f000341">I sit still and wait.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">“And yet,” said Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000343">“you dream bad dreams and upset the camp at night.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000345">well!</span>
   <span id="f000346">Before I’d lie down,</span>
   <span id="f000347">not to speak of sitting down,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and let a man fire across me,</span>
   <span id="f000349">my heels and his head would have something to say to each other.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Did you ever hear anything so awful as that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">There was a long silence,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and then one of the gun bullocks lifted up his big head and said,</span>
   <span id="f000353">“This is very foolish indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000354">There is only one way of fighting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000356">go on,” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000357">“Please don’t mind me.</span>
   <span id="f000358">I suppose you fellows fight standing on your tails?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“Only one way,” said the two together.</span>
   <span id="f000360">(They must have been twins.)</span>
   <span id="f000361">“This is that way.</span>
   <span id="f000362">To put all twenty yoke of us to the big gun as soon as Two Tails trumpets.”</span>
   <span id="f000363">(“Two Tails” is camp slang for the elephant.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“What does Two Tails trumpet for?” said the young mule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“To show that he is not going any nearer to the smoke on the other side.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Two Tails is a great coward.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Then we tug the big gun all together – Heya – Hullah!</span>
   <span id="f000368">Heeyah!</span>
   <span id="f000369">Hullah!</span>
   <span id="f000370">We do not climb like cats nor run like calves.</span>
   <span id="f000371">We go across the level plain,</span>
   <span id="f000372">twenty yoke of us,</span>
   <span id="f000373">till we are unyoked again,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and we graze while the big guns talk across the plain to some town with mud walls,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and pieces of the wall fall out,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and the dust goes up as though many cattle were coming home.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000378">And you choose that time for grazing?” said the young mule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“That time or any other.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Eating is always good.</span>
   <span id="f000381">We eat till we are yoked up again and tug the gun back to where Two Tails is waiting for it.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Sometimes there are big guns in the city that speak back,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and some of us are killed,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and then there is all the more grazing for those that are left.</span>
   <span id="f000385">This is Fate.</span>
   <span id="f000386">None the less,</span>
   <span id="f000387">Two Tails is a great coward.</span>
   <span id="f000388">That is the proper way to fight.</span>
   <span id="f000389">We are brothers from Hapur.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Our father was a sacred bull of Shiva.</span>
   <span id="f000391">We have spoken.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000393">I’ve certainly learned something tonight,” said the troop-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000394">“Do you gentlemen of the screw-gun battery feel inclined to eat when you are being fired at with big guns,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and Two Tails is behind you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“About as much as we feel inclined to sit down and let men sprawl all over us,</span>
   <span id="f000397">or run into people with knives.</span>
   <span id="f000398">I never heard such stuff.</span>
   <span id="f000399">A mountain ledge,</span>
   <span id="f000400">a well-balanced load,</span>
   <span id="f000401">a driver you can trust to let you pick your own way,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and I’m your mule.</span>
   <span id="f000403">But – the other things – no!” said Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000404">with a stamp of his foot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Of course,” said the troop horse,</span>
   <span id="f000406">“everyone is not made in the same way,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and I can quite see that your family,</span>
   <span id="f000408">on your father’s side,</span>
   <span id="f000409">would fail to understand a great many things.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“Never you mind my family on my father’s side,” said Billy angrily,</span>
   <span id="f000411">for every mule hates to be reminded that his father was a donkey.</span>
   <span id="f000412">“My father was a Southern gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and he could pull down and bite and kick into rags every horse he came across.</span>
   <span id="f000414">Remember that,</span>
   <span id="f000415">you big brown Brumby!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">Brumby means wild horse without any breeding.</span>
   <span id="f000417">Imagine the feelings of Sunol if a car-horse called her a “skate,” and you can imagine how the Australian horse felt.</span>
   <span id="f000418">I saw the white of his eye glitter in the dark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“See here,</span>
   <span id="f000420">you son of an imported Malaga jackass,” he said between his teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000421">“I’d have you know that I’m related on my mother’s side to Carbine,</span>
   <span id="f000422">winner of the Melbourne Cup,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and where I come from we aren’t accustomed to being ridden over roughshod by any parrot-mouthed,</span>
   <span id="f000424">pig-headed mule in a pop-gun pea-shooter battery.</span>
   <span id="f000425">Are you ready?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“On your hind legs!” squealed Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000427">They both reared up facing each other,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and I was expecting a furious fight,</span>
   <span id="f000429">when a gurgly,</span>
   <span id="f000430">rumbly voice,</span>
   <span id="f000431">called out of the darkness to the right – “Children,</span>
   <span id="f000432">what are you fighting about there?</span>
   <span id="f000433">Be quiet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">Both beasts dropped down with a snort of disgust,</span>
   <span id="f000435">for neither horse nor mule can bear to listen to an elephant’s voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">“It’s Two Tails!” said the troop-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000437">“I can’t stand him.</span>
   <span id="f000438">A tail at each end isn’t fair!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">“My feelings exactly,” said Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000440">crowding into the troop-horse for company.</span>
   <span id="f000441">“We’re very alike in some things.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">“I suppose we’ve inherited them from our mothers,” said the troop horse.</span>
   <span id="f000443">“It’s not worth quarreling about.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Hi!</span>
   <span id="f000445">Two Tails,</span>
   <span id="f000446">are you tied up?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“Yes,” said Two Tails,</span>
   <span id="f000448">with a laugh all up his trunk.</span>
   <span id="f000449">“I’m picketed for the night.</span>
   <span id="f000450">I’ve heard what you fellows have been saying.</span>
   <span id="f000451">But don’t be afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000452">I’m not coming over.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">The bullocks and the camel said,</span>
   <span id="f000454">half aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000455">“Afraid of Two Tails – what nonsense!” And the bullocks went on,</span>
   <span id="f000456">“We are sorry that you heard,</span>
   <span id="f000457">but it is true.</span>
   <span id="f000458">Two Tails,</span>
   <span id="f000459">why are you afraid of the guns when they fire?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">“Well,” said Two Tails,</span>
   <span id="f000461">rubbing one hind leg against the other,</span>
   <span id="f000462">exactly like a little boy saying a poem,</span>
   <span id="f000463">“I don’t quite know whether you’d understand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">“We don’t,</span>
   <span id="f000465">but we have to pull the guns,” said the bullocks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">“I know it,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and I know you are a good deal braver than you think you are.</span>
   <span id="f000468">But it’s different with me.</span>
   <span id="f000469">My battery captain called me a Pachydermatous Anachronism the other day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">“That’s another way of fighting,</span>
   <span id="f000471">I suppose?” said Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000472">who was recovering his spirits.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“You don’t know what that means,</span>
   <span id="f000474">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000475">but I do.</span>
   <span id="f000476">It means betwixt and between,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and that is just where I am.</span>
   <span id="f000478">I can see inside my head what will happen when a shell bursts,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and you bullocks can’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">“I can,” said the troop-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000481">“At least a little bit.</span>
   <span id="f000482">I try not to think about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">“I can see more than you,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and I do think about it.</span>
   <span id="f000485">I know there’s a great deal of me to take care of,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and I know that nobody knows how to cure me when I’m sick.</span>
   <span id="f000487">All they can do is to stop my driver’s pay till I get well,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and I can’t trust my driver.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">“Ah!” said the troop horse.</span>
   <span id="f000490">“That explains it.</span>
   <span id="f000491">I can trust Dick.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">“You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on my back without making me feel any better.</span>
   <span id="f000493">I know just enough to be uncomfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and not enough to go on in spite of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“We do not understand,” said the bullocks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“I know you don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000497">I’m not talking to you.</span>
   <span id="f000498">You don’t know what blood is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“We do,” said the bullocks.</span>
   <span id="f000500">“It is red stuff that soaks into the ground and smells.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">The troop-horse gave a kick and a bound and a snort.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">“Don’t talk of it,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000503">“I can smell it now,</span>
   <span id="f000504">just thinking of it.</span>
   <span id="f000505">It makes me want to run – when I haven’t Dick on my back.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">“But it is not here,” said the camel and the bullocks.</span>
   <span id="f000507">“Why are you so stupid?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000508">“It’s vile stuff,” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000509">“I don’t want to run,</span>
   <span id="f000510">but I don’t want to talk about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“There you are!” said Two Tails,</span>
   <span id="f000512">waving his tail to explain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">“Surely.</span>
   <span id="f000514">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000515">we have been here all night,” said the bullocks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">Two Tails stamped his foot till the iron ring on it jingled.</span>
   <span id="f000517">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000518">I’m not talking to you.</span>
   <span id="f000519">You can’t see inside your heads.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000521">We see out of our four eyes,” said the bullocks.</span>
   <span id="f000522">“We see straight in front of us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“If I could do that and nothing else,</span>
   <span id="f000524">you wouldn’t be needed to pull the big guns at all.</span>
   <span id="f000525">If I was like my captain – he can see things inside his head before the firing begins,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and he shakes all over,</span>
   <span id="f000527">but he knows too much to run away – if I was like him I could pull the guns.</span>
   <span id="f000528">But if I were as wise as all that I should never be here.</span>
   <span id="f000529">I should be a king in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000530">as I used to be,</span>
   <span id="f000531">sleeping half the day and bathing when I liked.</span>
   <span id="f000532">I haven’t had a good bath for a month.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“That’s all very fine,” said Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000534">“But giving a thing a long name doesn’t make it any better.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“H’sh!” said the troop horse.</span>
   <span id="f000536">“I think I understand what Two Tails means.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">“You’ll understand better in a minute,” said Two Tails angrily.</span>
   <span id="f000538">“Now you just explain to me why you don’t like this!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">He began trumpeting furiously at the top of his trumpet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“Stop that!” said Billy and the troop horse together,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and I could hear them stamp and shiver.</span>
   <span id="f000542">An elephant’s trumpeting is always nasty,</span>
   <span id="f000543">especially on a dark night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">“I shan’t stop,” said Two Tails.</span>
   <span id="f000545">“Won’t you explain that,</span>
   <span id="f000546">please?</span>
   <span id="f000547">Hhrrmph!</span>
   <span id="f000548">Rrrt!</span>
   <span id="f000549">Rrrmph!</span>
   <span id="f000550">Rrrhha!” Then he stopped suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and I heard a little whimper in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and knew that Vixen had found me at last.</span>
   <span id="f000553">She knew as well as I did that if there is one thing in the world the elephant is more afraid of than another it is a little barking dog.</span>
   <span id="f000554">So she stopped to bully Two Tails in his pickets,</span>
   <span id="f000555">and yapped round his big feet.</span>
   <span id="f000556">Two Tails shuffled and squeaked.</span>
   <span id="f000557">“Go away,</span>
   <span id="f000558">little dog!” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000559">“Don’t snuff at my ankles,</span>
   <span id="f000560">or I’ll kick at you.</span>
   <span id="f000561">Good little dog – nice little doggie,</span>
   <span id="f000562">then!</span>
   <span id="f000563">Go home,</span>
   <span id="f000564">you yelping little beast!</span>
   <span id="f000565">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000566">why doesn’t someone take her away?</span>
   <span id="f000567">She’ll bite me in a minute.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">“Seems to me,” said Billy to the troop horse,</span>
   <span id="f000569">“that our friend Two Tails is afraid of most things.</span>
   <span id="f000570">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000571">if I had a full meal for every dog I’ve kicked across the parade-ground I should be as fat as Two Tails nearly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">I whistled,</span>
   <span id="f000573">and Vixen ran up to me,</span>
   <span id="f000574">muddy all over,</span>
   <span id="f000575">and licked my nose,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and told me a long tale about hunting for me all through the camp.</span>
   <span id="f000577">I never let her know that I understood beast talk,</span>
   <span id="f000578">or she would have taken all sorts of liberties.</span>
   <span id="f000579">So I buttoned her into the breast of my overcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and Two Tails shuffled and stamped and growled to himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">“Extraordinary!</span>
   <span id="f000582">Most extraordinary!” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000583">“It runs in our family.</span>
   <span id="f000584">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000585">where has that nasty little beast gone to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">I heard him feeling about with his trunk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">“We all seem to be affected in various ways,” he went on,</span>
   <span id="f000588">blowing his nose.</span>
   <span id="f000589">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000590">you gentlemen were alarmed,</span>
   <span id="f000591">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000592">when I trumpeted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">“Not alarmed,</span>
   <span id="f000594">exactly,” said the troop-horse,</span>
   <span id="f000595">“but it made me feel as though I had hornets where my saddle ought to be.</span>
   <span id="f000596">Don’t begin again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">“I’m frightened of a little dog,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and the camel here is frightened by bad dreams in the night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">“It is very lucky for us that we haven’t all got to fight in the same way,” said the troop-horse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">“What I want to know,” said the young mule,</span>
   <span id="f000601">who had been quiet for a long time – “what I want to know is,</span>
   <span id="f000602">why we have to fight at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">“Because we’re told to,” said the troop-horse,</span>
   <span id="f000604">with a snort of contempt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">“Orders,” said Billy the mule,</span>
   <span id="f000606">and his teeth snapped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000607">“Hukm hai!”</span>
   <span id="f000608">(It is an order!),</span>
   <span id="f000609">said the camel with a gurgle,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and Two Tails and the bullocks repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000611">“Hukm hai!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000613">but who gives the orders?” said the recruit-mule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">“The man who walks at your head – Or sits on your back – Or holds the nose rope – Or twists your tail,” said Billy and the troop-horse and the camel and the bullocks one after the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000615">“But who gives them the orders?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">“Now you want to know too much,</span>
   <span id="f000617">young un,” said Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000618">“and that is one way of getting kicked.</span>
   <span id="f000619">All you have to do is to obey the man at your head and ask no questions.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">“He’s quite right,” said Two Tails.</span>
   <span id="f000621">“I can’t always obey,</span>
   <span id="f000622">because I’m betwixt and between.</span>
   <span id="f000623">But Billy’s right.</span>
   <span id="f000624">Obey the man next to you who gives the order,</span>
   <span id="f000625">or you’ll stop all the battery,</span>
   <span id="f000626">besides getting a thrashing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">The gun-bullocks got up to go.</span>
   <span id="f000628">“Morning is coming,” they said.</span>
   <span id="f000629">“We will go back to our lines.</span>
   <span id="f000630">It is true that we only see out of our eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and we are not very clever.</span>
   <span id="f000632">But still,</span>
   <span id="f000633">we are the only people to-night who have not been afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000634">Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000635">you brave people.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">Nobody answered,</span>
   <span id="f000637">and the troop-horse said,</span>
   <span id="f000638">to change the conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000639">“Where’s that little dog?</span>
   <span id="f000640">A dog means a man somewhere about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">“Here I am,” yapped Vixen,</span>
   <span id="f000642">“under the gun tail with my man.</span>
   <span id="f000643">You big,</span>
   <span id="f000644">blundering beast of a camel you,</span>
   <span id="f000645">you upset our tent.</span>
   <span id="f000646">My man’s very angry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">“Phew!” said the bullocks.</span>
   <span id="f000648">“He must be white!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“Of course he is,” said Vixen.</span>
   <span id="f000650">“Do you suppose I’m looked after by a black bullock-driver?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">“Huah!</span>
   <span id="f000652">Ouach!</span>
   <span id="f000653">Ugh!” said the bullocks.</span>
   <span id="f000654">“Let us get away quickly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">They plunged forward in the mud,</span>
   <span id="f000656">and managed somehow to run their yoke on the pole of an ammunition wagon,</span>
   <span id="f000657">where it jammed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">“Now you have done it,” said Billy calmly.</span>
   <span id="f000659">“Don’t struggle.</span>
   <span id="f000660">You’re hung up till daylight.</span>
   <span id="f000661">What on earth’s the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">The bullocks went off into the long hissing snorts that Indian cattle give,</span>
   <span id="f000663">and pushed and crowded and slued and stamped and slipped and nearly fell down in the mud,</span>
   <span id="f000664">grunting savagely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">“You’ll break your necks in a minute,” said the troop-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000666">“What’s the matter with white men?</span>
   <span id="f000667">I live with ’em.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">“They – eat – us!</span>
   <span id="f000669">Pull!” said the near bullock.</span>
   <span id="f000670">The yoke snapped with a twang,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and they lumbered off together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">I never knew before what made Indian cattle so scared of Englishmen.</span>
   <span id="f000673">We eat beef – a thing that no cattle-driver touches – and of course the cattle do not like it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">“May I be flogged with my own pad-chains!</span>
   <span id="f000675">Who’d have thought of two big lumps like those losing their heads?” said Billy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">“Never mind.</span>
   <span id="f000677">I’m going to look at this man.</span>
   <span id="f000678">Most of the white men,</span>
   <span id="f000679">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000680">have things in their pockets,” said the troop-horse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“I’ll leave you,</span>
   <span id="f000682">then.</span>
   <span id="f000683">I can’t say I’m over-fond of ’em myself.</span>
   <span id="f000684">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000685">white men who haven’t a place to sleep in are more than likely to be thieves,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and I’ve a good deal of Government property on my back.</span>
   <span id="f000687">Come along,</span>
   <span id="f000688">young un,</span>
   <span id="f000689">and we’ll go back to our lines.</span>
   <span id="f000690">Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000691">Australia!</span>
   <span id="f000692">See you on parade to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000693">I suppose.</span>
   <span id="f000694">Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000695">old Hay-bale!</span>
   <span id="f000696">– try to control your feelings,</span>
   <span id="f000697">won’t you?</span>
   <span id="f000698">Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000699">Two Tails!</span>
   <span id="f000700">If you pass us on the ground tomorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000701">don’t trumpet.</span>
   <span id="f000702">It spoils our formation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">Billy the Mule stumped off with the swaggering limp of an old campaigner,</span>
   <span id="f000704">as the troop-horse’s head came nuzzling into my breast,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and I gave him biscuits,</span>
   <span id="f000706">while Vixen,</span>
   <span id="f000707">who is a most conceited little dog,</span>
   <span id="f000708">told him fibs about the scores of horses that she and I kept.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000709">“I’m coming to the parade to-morrow in my dog-cart,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000710">“Where will you be?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“On the left hand of the second squadron.</span>
   <span id="f000712">I set the time for all my troop,</span>
   <span id="f000713">little lady,” he said politely.</span>
   <span id="f000714">“Now I must go back to Dick.</span>
   <span id="f000715">My tail’s all muddy,</span>
   <span id="f000716">and he’ll have two hours’ hard work dressing me for parade.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">The big parade of all the thirty thousand men was held that afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000718">and Vixen and I had a good place close to the Viceroy and the Amir of Afghanistan,</span>
   <span id="f000719">with high,</span>
   <span id="f000720">big black hat of astrakhan wool and the great diamond star in the center.</span>
   <span id="f000721">The first part of the review was all sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000722">and the regiments went by in wave upon wave of legs all moving together,</span>
   <span id="f000723">and guns all in a line,</span>
   <span id="f000724">till our eyes grew dizzy.</span>
   <span id="f000725">Then the cavalry came up,</span>
   <span id="f000726">to the beautiful cavalry canter of “Bonnie Dundee,” and Vixen cocked her ear where she sat on the dog-cart.</span>
   <span id="f000727">The second squadron of the Lancers shot by,</span>
   <span id="f000728">and there was the troop-horse,</span>
   <span id="f000729">with his tail like spun silk,</span>
   <span id="f000730">his head pulled into his breast,</span>
   <span id="f000731">one ear forward and one back,</span>
   <span id="f000732">setting the time for all his squadron,</span>
   <span id="f000733">his legs going as smoothly as waltz music.</span>
   <span id="f000734">Then the big guns came by,</span>
   <span id="f000735">and I saw Two Tails and two other elephants harnessed in line to a forty-pounder siege gun,</span>
   <span id="f000736">while twenty yoke of oxen walked behind.</span>
   <span id="f000737">The seventh pair had a new yoke,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and they looked rather stiff and tired.</span>
   <span id="f000739">Last came the screw guns,</span>
   <span id="f000740">and Billy the mule carried himself as though he commanded all the troops,</span>
   <span id="f000741">and his harness was oiled and polished till it winked.</span>
   <span id="f000742">I gave a cheer all by myself for Billy the mule,</span>
   <span id="f000743">but he never looked right or left.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000744">The rain began to fall again,</span>
   <span id="f000745">and for a while it was too misty to see what the troops were doing.</span>
   <span id="f000746">They had made a big half circle across the plain,</span>
   <span id="f000747">and were spreading out into a line.</span>
   <span id="f000748">That line grew and grew and grew till it was three-quarters of a mile long from wing to wing – one solid wall of men,</span>
   <span id="f000749">horses,</span>
   <span id="f000750">and guns.</span>
   <span id="f000751">Then it came on straight toward the Viceroy and the Amir,</span>
   <span id="f000752">and as it got nearer the ground began to shake,</span>
   <span id="f000753">like the deck of a steamer when the engines are going fast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">Unless you have been there you cannot imagine what a frightening effect this steady come-down of troops has on the spectators,</span>
   <span id="f000755">even when they know it is only a review.</span>
   <span id="f000756">I looked at the Amir.</span>
   <span id="f000757">Up till then he had not shown the shadow of a sign of astonishment or anything else.</span>
   <span id="f000758">But now his eyes began to get bigger and bigger,</span>
   <span id="f000759">and he picked up the reins on his horse’s neck and looked behind him.</span>
   <span id="f000760">For a minute it seemed as though he were going to draw his sword and slash his way out through the English men and women in the carriages at the back.</span>
   <span id="f000761">Then the advance stopped dead,</span>
   <span id="f000762">the ground stood still,</span>
   <span id="f000763">the whole line saluted,</span>
   <span id="f000764">and thirty bands began to play all together.</span>
   <span id="f000765">That was the end of the review,</span>
   <span id="f000766">and the regiments went off to their camps in the rain,</span>
   <span id="f000767">and an infantry band struck up with –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000768">The animals went in two by two,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000769">Hurrah!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000770">The animals went in two by two,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000771">The elephant and the battery mul’,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000772">and they all got into the Ark<br /></span>
   <span id="f000773">For to get out of the rain!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000774">Then I heard an old grizzled,</span>
   <span id="f000775">long-haired Central Asian chief,</span>
   <span id="f000776">who had come down with the Amir,</span>
   <span id="f000777">asking questions of a native officer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">“Now,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000779">“in what manner was this wonderful thing done?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000780">And the officer answered,</span>
   <span id="f000781">“An order was given,</span>
   <span id="f000782">and they obeyed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000783">“But are the beasts as wise as the men?” said the chief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000784">“They obey,</span>
   <span id="f000785">as the men do.</span>
   <span id="f000786">Mule,</span>
   <span id="f000787">horse,</span>
   <span id="f000788">elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000789">or bullock,</span>
   <span id="f000790">he obeys his driver,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and the driver his sergeant,</span>
   <span id="f000792">and the sergeant his lieutenant,</span>
   <span id="f000793">and the lieutenant his captain,</span>
   <span id="f000794">and the captain his major,</span>
   <span id="f000795">and the major his colonel,</span>
   <span id="f000796">and the colonel his brigadier commanding three regiments,</span>
   <span id="f000797">and the brigadier the general,</span>
   <span id="f000798">who obeys the Viceroy,</span>
   <span id="f000799">who is the servant of the Empress.</span>
   <span id="f000800">Thus it is done.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000801">“Would it were so in Afghanistan!” said the chief,</span>
   <span id="f000802">“for there we obey only our own wills.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000803">“And for that reason,” said the native officer,</span>
   <span id="f000804">twirling his mustache,</span>
   <span id="f000805">“your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take orders from our Viceroy.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000806">Parade Song of the Camp Animals</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000807">ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN TEAMS</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000809">The wisdom of our foreheads,</span>
   <span id="f000810">the cunning of our knees;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000811">We bowed our necks to service:</span>
   <span id="f000812">they ne’er were loosed again,</span>
   <span id="f000813">– <br /></span>
   <span id="f000814">Make way there – way for the ten-foot teams<br /></span>
   <span id="f000815">Of the Forty-Pounder train!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000816">GUN BULLOCKS</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000818">And what they know of powder upsets them one and all;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000819">Then we come into action and tug the guns again – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000820">Make way there – way for the twenty yoke<br /></span>
   <span id="f000821">Of the Forty-Pounder train!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">CAVALRY HORSES</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000823">By the brand on my shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000824">the finest of tunes<br /></span>
   <span id="f000825">Is played by the Lancers,</span>
   <span id="f000826">Hussars,</span>
   <span id="f000827">and Dragoons,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000828">And it’s sweeter than “Stables” or “Water” to me – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000829">The Cavalry Canter of “Bonnie Dundee”!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">Then feed us and break us and handle and groom,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000831">And give us good riders and plenty of room,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000832">And launch us in column of squadron and see<br /></span>
   <span id="f000833">The way of the war-horse to “Bonnie Dundee”!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000834">SCREW-GUN MULES</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000835">As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000836">The path was lost in rolling stones,</span>
   <span id="f000837">but we went forward still;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000838">For we can wriggle and climb,</span>
   <span id="f000839">my lads,</span>
   <span id="f000840">and turn up everywhere,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000841">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000842">it’s our delight on a mountain height,</span>
   <span id="f000843">with a leg or two to<br /></span>
   <span id="f000844">spare!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000845">Good luck to every sergeant,</span>
   <span id="f000846">then,</span>
   <span id="f000847">that lets us pick our road;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000848">Bad luck to all the driver-men that cannot pack a load:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000849">For we can wriggle and climb,</span>
   <span id="f000850">my lads,</span>
   <span id="f000851">and turn up everywhere,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000852">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000853">it’s our delight on a mountain height,</span>
   <span id="f000854">with a leg or two to<br /></span>
   <span id="f000855">spare!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000856">COMMISSARIAT CAMELS</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000857">We haven’t a camelty tune of our own<br /></span>
   <span id="f000858">To help us trollop along,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000859">But every neck is a hair trombone<br /></span>
   <span id="f000860">(Rtt-ta-ta-ta!</span>
   <span id="f000861">is a hair trombone!)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000862">And this our marching-song:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000863">Can’t!</span>
   <span id="f000864">Don’t!</span>
   <span id="f000865">Shan’t!</span>
   <span id="f000866">Won’t!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000867">Pass it along the line!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000868">Somebody’s pack has slid from his back,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000869">Wish it were only mine!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000870">Somebody’s load has tipped off in the road – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000871">Cheer for a halt and a row!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000872">Urrr!</span>
   <span id="f000873">Yarrh!</span>
   <span id="f000874">Grr!</span>
   <span id="f000875">Arrh!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000876">Somebody’s catching it now!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">ALL THE BEASTS TOGETHER</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000878">Children of the Camp are we,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000879">Serving each in his degree;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000880">Children of the yoke and goad,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000881">Pack and harness,</span>
   <span id="f000882">pad and load.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000883">See our line across the plain,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000884">Like a heel-rope bent again,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000885">Reaching,</span>
   <span id="f000886">writhing,</span>
   <span id="f000887">rolling far,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000888">Sweeping all away to war!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000889">While the men that walk beside,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000890">Dusty,</span>
   <span id="f000891">silent,</span>
   <span id="f000892">heavy-eyed,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000893">Cannot tell why we or they<br /></span>
   <span id="f000894">March and suffer day by day.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000895">Children of the Camp are we,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000896">Serving each in his degree;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000897">Children of the yoke and goad,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000898">Pack and harness,</span>
   <span id="f000899">pad and load!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

