<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Cate Mackenzie</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Gipsy Prophecy</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Bram Stoker</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">’I really think,’ said the Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000008">’that,</span>
   <span id="f000009">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000010">one of us should go and try whether or not the thing is an imposture.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">’Good!’ said Considine.</span>
   <span id="f000012">’After dinner we will take our cigars and stroll over to the camp.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">Accordingly,</span>
   <span id="f000014">when the dinner was over,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and the <em>La Tour</em> finished,</span>
   <span id="f000016">Joshua Considine and his friend,</span>
   <span id="f000017">Dr Burleigh,</span>
   <span id="f000018">went over to the east side of the moor,</span>
   <span id="f000019">where the gipsy encampment lay.</span>
   <span id="f000020">As they were leaving,</span>
   <span id="f000021">Mary Considine,</span>
   <span id="f000022">who had walked as far as the end of the garden where it opened into the laneway,</span>
   <span id="f000023">called after her husband:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">’Mind,</span>
   <span id="f000025">Joshua,</span>
   <span id="f000026">you are to give them a fair chance,</span>
   <span id="f000027">but don’t give them any clue to a fortune – and don’t you get flirting with any of the gipsy maidens – and take care to keep Gerald out of harm.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">For answer Considine held up his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000029">as if taking a stage oath,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and whistled the air of the old song,</span>
   <span id="f000031">’The Gipsy Countess.’ Gerald joined in the strain,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000033">breaking into merry laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000034">the two men passed along the laneway to the common,</span>
   <span id="f000035">turning now and then to wave their hands to Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000036">who leaned over the gate,</span>
   <span id="f000037">in the twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000038">looking after them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">It was a lovely evening in the summer;</span>
   <span id="f000040">the very air was full of rest and quiet happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000041">as though an outward type of the peacefulness and joy which made a heaven of the home of the young married folk.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Considine’s life had not been an eventful one.</span>
   <span id="f000043">The only disturbing element which he had ever known was in his wooing of Mary Winston,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and the long-continued objection of her ambitious parents,</span>
   <span id="f000045">who expected a brilliant match for their only daughter.</span>
   <span id="f000046">When Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Winston had discovered the attachment of the young barrister,</span>
   <span id="f000047">they had tried to keep the young people apart by sending their daughter away for a long round of visits,</span>
   <span id="f000048">having made her promise not to correspond with her lover during her absence.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Love,</span>
   <span id="f000050">however,</span>
   <span id="f000051">had stood the test.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Neither absence nor neglect seemed to cool the passion of the young man,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and jealousy seemed a thing unknown to his sanguine nature;</span>
   <span id="f000054">so,</span>
   <span id="f000055">after a long period of waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000056">the parents had given in,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and the young folk were married.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">They had been living in the cottage a few months,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and were just beginning to feel at home.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Gerald Burleigh,</span>
   <span id="f000061">Joshua’s old college chum,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and himself a sometime victim of Mary’s beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000063">had arrived a week before,</span>
   <span id="f000064">to stay with them for as long a time as he could tear himself away from his work in London.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">When her husband had quite disappeared Mary went into the house,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and,</span>
   <span id="f000067">sitting down at the piano,</span>
   <span id="f000068">gave an hour to Mendelssohn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">It was but a short walk across the common,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and before the cigars required renewing the two men had reached the gipsy camp.</span>
   <span id="f000071">The place was as picturesque as gipsy camps – when in villages and when business is good – usually are.</span>
   <span id="f000072">There were some few persons round the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000073">investing their money in prophecy,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and a large number of others,</span>
   <span id="f000075">poorer or more parsimonious,</span>
   <span id="f000076">who stayed just outside the bounds but near enough to see all that went on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">As the two gentlemen approached,</span>
   <span id="f000078">the villagers,</span>
   <span id="f000079">who knew Joshua,</span>
   <span id="f000080">made way a little,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and a pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000082">keen-eyed gipsy girl tripped up and asked to tell their fortunes.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Joshua held out his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000084">but the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000085">without seeming to see it,</span>
   <span id="f000086">stared at his face in a very odd manner.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Gerald nudged him:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">’You must cross her hand with silver,’ he said.</span>
   <span id="f000089">’It is one of the most important parts of the mystery.’ Joshua took from his pocket a half-crown and held it out to her,</span>
   <span id="f000090">but,</span>
   <span id="f000091">without looking at it,</span>
   <span id="f000092">she answered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">’You have to cross the gipsy’s hand with gold.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">Gerald laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000095">’You are at a premium as a subject,’ he said.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Joshua was of the kind of man – the universal kind – who can tolerate being stared at by a pretty girl;</span>
   <span id="f000097">so,</span>
   <span id="f000098">with some little deliberation,</span>
   <span id="f000099">he answered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">’All right;</span>
   <span id="f000101">here you are,</span>
   <span id="f000102">my pretty girl;</span>
   <span id="f000103">but you must give me a real good fortune for it,’ and he handed her a half sovereign,</span>
   <span id="f000104">which she took,</span>
   <span id="f000105">saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">’It is not for me to give good fortune or bad,</span>
   <span id="f000107">but only to read what the Stars have said.’ She took his right hand and turned it palm upward;</span>
   <span id="f000108">but the instant her eyes met it she dropped it as though it had been red hot,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and,</span>
   <span id="f000110">with a startled look,</span>
   <span id="f000111">glided swiftly away.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Lifting the curtain of the large tent,</span>
   <span id="f000113">which occupied the centre of the camp,</span>
   <span id="f000114">she disappeared within.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">’Sold again!’ said the cynical Gerald.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Joshua stood a little amazed,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and not altogether satisfied.</span>
   <span id="f000118">They both watched the large tent.</span>
   <span id="f000119">In a few moments there emerged from the opening not the young girl,</span>
   <span id="f000120">but a stately looking woman of middle age and commanding presence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">The instant she appeared the whole camp seemed to stand still.</span>
   <span id="f000122">The clamour of tongues,</span>
   <span id="f000123">the laughter and noise of the work were,</span>
   <span id="f000124">for a second or two,</span>
   <span id="f000125">arrested,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and every man or woman who sat,</span>
   <span id="f000127">or crouched,</span>
   <span id="f000128">or lay,</span>
   <span id="f000129">stood up and faced the imperial looking gipsy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">’The Queen,</span>
   <span id="f000131">of course,’ murmured Gerald.</span>
   <span id="f000132">’We are in luck tonight.’ The gipsy Queen threw a searching glance around the camp,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000134">without hesitating an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000135">came straight over and stood before Joshua.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">’Hold out your hand,’ she said in a commanding tone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">Again Gerald spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000138"><em>sotto voce</em>:</span>
   <span id="f000139">’I have not been spoken to in that way since I was at school.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">’Your hand must be crossed with gold.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">’A hundred per cent.</span>
   <span id="f000142">at this game,’ whispered Gerald,</span>
   <span id="f000143">as Joshua laid another half sovereign on his upturned palm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">The gipsy looked at the hand with knitted brows;</span>
   <span id="f000145">then suddenly looking up into his face,</span>
   <span id="f000146">said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">’Have you a strong will – have you a true heart that can be brave for one you love?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">’I hope so;</span>
   <span id="f000149">but I am afraid I have not vanity enough to say “yes”.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">’Then I will answer for you;</span>
   <span id="f000151">for I read resolution in your face – resolution desperate and determined if need be.</span>
   <span id="f000152">You have a wife you love?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">’Yes,’ emphatically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">’Then leave her at once – never see her face again.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Go from her now,</span>
   <span id="f000156">while love is fresh and your heart is free from wicked intent.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Go quick – go far,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and never see her face again!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">Joshua drew away his hand quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000161">’Thank you!’ stiffly but sarcastically,</span>
   <span id="f000162">as he began to move away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">’I say!’ said Gerald,</span>
   <span id="f000164">’you’re not going like that,</span>
   <span id="f000165">old man;</span>
   <span id="f000166">no use in being indignant with the Stars or their prophet – and,</span>
   <span id="f000167">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000168">your sovereign – what of it?</span>
   <span id="f000169">At least,</span>
   <span id="f000170">hear the matter out.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">’Silence,</span>
   <span id="f000172">ribald!’ commanded the Queen,</span>
   <span id="f000173">’you know not what you do.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Let him go – and go ignorant,</span>
   <span id="f000175">if he will not be warned.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">Joshua immediately turned back.</span>
   <span id="f000177">’At all events,</span>
   <span id="f000178">we will see this thing out,’ he said.</span>
   <span id="f000179">’Now,</span>
   <span id="f000180">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000181">you have given me advice,</span>
   <span id="f000182">but I paid for a fortune.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">’Be warned!’ said the gipsy.</span>
   <span id="f000184">’The Stars have been silent for long;</span>
   <span id="f000185">let the mystery still wrap them round.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">’My dear madam,</span>
   <span id="f000187">I do not get within touch of a mystery every day,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and I prefer for my money knowledge rather than ignorance.</span>
   <span id="f000189">I can get the latter commodity for nothing when I want any of it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">Gerald echoed the sentiment.</span>
   <span id="f000191">’As for me I have a large and unsaleable stock on hand.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">The gipsy Queen eyed the two men sternly,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and then said:</span>
   <span id="f000194">’As you wish.</span>
   <span id="f000195">You have chosen for yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and have met warning with scorn,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and appeal with levity.</span>
   <span id="f000198">On your own heads be the doom!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">’Amen!’ said Gerald.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">With an imperious gesture the Queen took Joshua’s hand again,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and began to tell his fortune.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">’I see here the flowing of blood;</span>
   <span id="f000203">it will flow before long;</span>
   <span id="f000204">it is running in my sight.</span>
   <span id="f000205">It flows through the broken circle of a severed ring.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">’Go on!’ said Joshua,</span>
   <span id="f000207">smiling.</span>
   <span id="f000208">Gerald was silent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">’Must I speak plainer?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">’Certainly;</span>
   <span id="f000211">we commonplace mortals want something definite.</span>
   <span id="f000212">The Stars are a long way off,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and their words get somewhat dulled in the message.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">The gipsy shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and then spoke impressively.</span>
   <span id="f000216">’This is the hand of a murderer – the murderer of his wife!’ She dropped the hand and turned away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">Joshua laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000218">’Do you know,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000219">’I think if I were you I should prophesy some jurisprudence into my system.</span>
   <span id="f000220">For instance,</span>
   <span id="f000221">you say “this hand is the hand of a murderer.” Well,</span>
   <span id="f000222">whatever it may be in the future – or potentially – it is at present not one.</span>
   <span id="f000223">You ought to give your prophecy in such terms as “the hand which will be a murderer’s”,</span>
   <span id="f000224">or,</span>
   <span id="f000225">rather,</span>
   <span id="f000226">“the hand of one who will be the murderer of his wife”.</span>
   <span id="f000227">The Stars are really not good on technical questions.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">The gipsy made no reply of any kind,</span>
   <span id="f000229">but,</span>
   <span id="f000230">with drooping head and despondent mien,</span>
   <span id="f000231">walked slowly to her tent,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and,</span>
   <span id="f000233">lifting the curtain,</span>
   <span id="f000234">disappeared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">Without speaking the two men turned homewards,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and walked across the moor.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Presently,</span>
   <span id="f000238">after some little hesitation,</span>
   <span id="f000239">Gerald spoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">’Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000241">old man,</span>
   <span id="f000242">this is all a joke;</span>
   <span id="f000243">a ghastly one,</span>
   <span id="f000244">but still a joke.</span>
   <span id="f000245">But would it not be well to keep it to ourselves?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">’How do you mean?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000248">not tell your wife.</span>
   <span id="f000249">It might alarm her.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">’Alarm her!</span>
   <span id="f000251">My dear Gerald,</span>
   <span id="f000252">what are you thinking of?</span>
   <span id="f000253">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000254">she would not be alarmed or afraid of me if all the gipsies that ever didn’t come from Bohemia agreed that I was to murder her,</span>
   <span id="f000255">or even to have a hard thought of her,</span>
   <span id="f000256">whilst so long as she was saying “Jack Robinson.”’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">Gerald remonstrated.</span>
   <span id="f000258">’Old fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000259">women are superstitious – far more than we men are;</span>
   <span id="f000260">and,</span>
   <span id="f000261">also they are blessed – or cursed – with a nervous system to which we are strangers.</span>
   <span id="f000262">I see too much of it in my work not to realise it.</span>
   <span id="f000263">Take my advice and do not let her know,</span>
   <span id="f000264">or you will frighten her.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">Joshua’s lips unconsciously hardened as he answered:</span>
   <span id="f000266">’My dear fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000267">I would not have a secret from my wife.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000269">it would be the beginning of a new order of things between us.</span>
   <span id="f000270">We have no secrets from each other.</span>
   <span id="f000271">If we ever have,</span>
   <span id="f000272">then you may begin to look out for something odd between us.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">’Still,’ said Gerald,</span>
   <span id="f000274">’at the risk of unwelcome interference,</span>
   <span id="f000275">I say again be warned in time.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">’The gipsy’s very words,’ said Joshua.</span>
   <span id="f000277">’You and she seem quite of one accord.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000279">old man,</span>
   <span id="f000280">is this a put-up thing?</span>
   <span id="f000281">You told me of the gipsy camp – did you arrange it all with Her Majesty?’ This was said with an air of bantering earnestness.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Gerald assured him that he only heard of the camp that morning;</span>
   <span id="f000283">but he made fun of every answer of his friend,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and,</span>
   <span id="f000285">in the process of this raillery,</span>
   <span id="f000286">the time passed,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and they entered the cottage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">Mary was sitting at the piano but not playing.</span>
   <span id="f000289">The dim twilight had waked some very tender feelings in her breast,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and her eyes were full of gentle tears.</span>
   <span id="f000291">When the men came in she stole over to her husband’s side and kissed him.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Joshua struck a tragic attitude.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">’Mary,’ he said in a deep voice,</span>
   <span id="f000294">’before you approach me,</span>
   <span id="f000295">listen to the words of Fate.</span>
   <span id="f000296">The Stars have spoken and the doom is sealed.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">’What is it,</span>
   <span id="f000298">dear?</span>
   <span id="f000299">Tell me the fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000300">but do not frighten me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">’Not at all,</span>
   <span id="f000302">my dear;</span>
   <span id="f000303">but there is a truth which it is well that you should know.</span>
   <span id="f000304">Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000305">it is necessary so that all your arrangements can be made beforehand,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and everything be decently done and in order.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">’Go on,</span>
   <span id="f000308">dear;</span>
   <span id="f000309">I am listening.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">’Mary Considine,</span>
   <span id="f000311">your effigy may yet be seen at Madame Tussaud’s.</span>
   <span id="f000312">The juris-imprudent Stars have announced their fell tidings that this hand is red with blood – your blood.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Mary!</span>
   <span id="f000314">Mary!</span>
   <span id="f000315">my God!’ He sprang forward,</span>
   <span id="f000316">but too late to catch her as she fell fainting on the floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">’I told you,’ said Gerald.</span>
   <span id="f000318">’You don’t know them as well as I do.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">After a little while Mary recovered from her swoon,</span>
   <span id="f000320">but only to fall into strong hysterics,</span>
   <span id="f000321">in which she laughed and wept and raved and cried,</span>
   <span id="f000322">’Keep him from me – from me,</span>
   <span id="f000323">Joshua,</span>
   <span id="f000324">my husband,’ and many other words of entreaty and of fear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">Joshua Considine was in a state of mind bordering on agony,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and when at last Mary became calm he knelt by her and kissed her feet and hands and hair and called her all the sweet names and said all the tender things his lips could frame.</span>
   <span id="f000327">All that night he sat by her bedside and held her hand.</span>
   <span id="f000328">Far through the night and up to the early morning she kept waking from sleep and crying out as if in fear,</span>
   <span id="f000329">till she was comforted by the consciousness that her husband was watching beside her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">Breakfast was late the next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000331">but during it Joshua received a telegram which required him to drive over to Withering,</span>
   <span id="f000332">nearly twenty miles.</span>
   <span id="f000333">He was loth to go;</span>
   <span id="f000334">but Mary would not hear of his remaining,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and so before noon he drove off in his dog-cart alone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">When he was gone Mary retired to her room.</span>
   <span id="f000337">She did not appear at lunch,</span>
   <span id="f000338">but when afternoon tea was served on the lawn under the great weeping willow,</span>
   <span id="f000339">she came to join her guest.</span>
   <span id="f000340">She was looking quite recovered from her illness of the evening before.</span>
   <span id="f000341">After some casual remarks,</span>
   <span id="f000342">she said to Gerald:</span>
   <span id="f000343">’Of course it was very silly about last night,</span>
   <span id="f000344">but I could not help feeling frightened.</span>
   <span id="f000345">Indeed I would feel so still if I let myself think of it.</span>
   <span id="f000346">But,</span>
   <span id="f000347">after all these people may only imagine things,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and I have got a test that can hardly fail to show that the prediction is false – if indeed it be false,’ she added sadly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">’What is your plan?’ asked Gerald.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">’I shall go myself to the gipsy camp,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and have my fortune told by the Queen.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">’Capital.</span>
   <span id="f000353">May I go with you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000355">no!</span>
   <span id="f000356">That would spoil it.</span>
   <span id="f000357">She might know you and guess at me,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and suit her utterance accordingly.</span>
   <span id="f000359">I shall go alone this afternoon.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">When the afternoon was gone Mary Considine took her way to the gipsy encampment.</span>
   <span id="f000361">Gerald went with her as far as the near edge of the common,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and returned alone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">Half-an-hour had hardly elapsed when Mary entered the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000364">where he lay on a sofa reading.</span>
   <span id="f000365">She was ghastly pale and was in a state of extreme excitement.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Hardly had she passed over the threshold when she collapsed and sank moaning on the carpet.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Gerald rushed to aid her,</span>
   <span id="f000368">but by a great effort she controlled herself and motioned him to be silent.</span>
   <span id="f000369">He waited,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and his ready attention to her wish seemed to be her best help,</span>
   <span id="f000371">for,</span>
   <span id="f000372">in a few minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000373">she had somewhat recovered,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and was able to tell him what had passed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">’When I got to the camp,’ she said,</span>
   <span id="f000376">’there did not seem to be a soul about,</span>
   <span id="f000377">I went into the centre and stood there.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Suddenly a tall woman stood beside me.</span>
   <span id="f000379">“Something told me I was wanted!” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000380">I held out my hand and laid a piece of silver on it.</span>
   <span id="f000381">She took from her neck a small golden trinket and laid it there also;</span>
   <span id="f000382">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000383">seizing the two,</span>
   <span id="f000384">threw them into the stream that ran by.</span>
   <span id="f000385">Then she took my hand in hers and spoke:</span>
   <span id="f000386">“Naught but blood in this guilty place,” and turned away.</span>
   <span id="f000387">I caught hold of her and asked her to tell me more.</span>
   <span id="f000388">After some hesitation,</span>
   <span id="f000389">she said:</span>
   <span id="f000390">“Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000391">alas!</span>
   <span id="f000392">I see you lying at your husband’s feet,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and his hands are red with blood”.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">Gerald did not feel at all at ease,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and tried to laugh it off.</span>
   <span id="f000396">’Surely,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000397">’this woman has a craze about murder.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">’Do not laugh,’ said Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000399">’I cannot bear it,’ and then,</span>
   <span id="f000400">as if with a sudden impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000401">she left the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">Not long after Joshua returned,</span>
   <span id="f000403">bright and cheery,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and as hungry as a hunter after his long drive.</span>
   <span id="f000405">His presence cheered his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000406">who seemed much brighter,</span>
   <span id="f000407">but she did not mention the episode of the visit to the gipsy camp,</span>
   <span id="f000408">so Gerald did not mention it either.</span>
   <span id="f000409">As if by tacit consent the subject was not alluded to during the evening.</span>
   <span id="f000410">But there was a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000411">settled look on Mary’s face,</span>
   <span id="f000412">which Gerald could not but observe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">In the morning Joshua came down to breakfast later than usual.</span>
   <span id="f000414">Mary had been up and about the house from an early hour;</span>
   <span id="f000415">but as the time drew on she seemed to get a little nervous and now and again threw around an anxious look.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">Gerald could not help noticing that none of those at breakfast could get on satisfactorily with their food.</span>
   <span id="f000417">It was not altogether that the chops were tough,</span>
   <span id="f000418">but that the knives were all so blunt.</span>
   <span id="f000419">Being a guest,</span>
   <span id="f000420">he,</span>
   <span id="f000421">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000422">made no sign;</span>
   <span id="f000423">but presently saw Joshua draw his thumb across the edge of his knife in an unconscious sort of way.</span>
   <span id="f000424">At the action Mary turned pale and almost fainted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">After breakfast they all went out on the lawn.</span>
   <span id="f000426">Mary was making up a bouquet,</span>
   <span id="f000427">and said to her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000428">’Get me a few of the tea-roses,</span>
   <span id="f000429">dear.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">Joshua pulled down a cluster from the front of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000431">The stem bent,</span>
   <span id="f000432">but was too tough to break.</span>
   <span id="f000433">He put his hand in his pocket to get his knife;</span>
   <span id="f000434">but in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000435">’Lend me your knife,</span>
   <span id="f000436">Gerald,’ he said.</span>
   <span id="f000437">But Gerald had not got one,</span>
   <span id="f000438">so he went into the breakfast room and took one from the table.</span>
   <span id="f000439">He came out feeling its edge and grumbling.</span>
   <span id="f000440">’What on earth has happened to all the knives – the edges seem all ground off?’ Mary turned away hurriedly and entered the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">Joshua tried to sever the stalk with the blunt knife as country cooks sever the necks of fowl – as schoolboys cut twine.</span>
   <span id="f000442">With a little effort he finished the task.</span>
   <span id="f000443">The cluster of roses grew thick,</span>
   <span id="f000444">so he determined to gather a great bunch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">He could not find a single sharp knife in the sideboard where the cutlery was kept,</span>
   <span id="f000446">so he called Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and when she came,</span>
   <span id="f000448">told her the state of things.</span>
   <span id="f000449">She looked so agitated and so miserable that he could not help knowing the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and,</span>
   <span id="f000451">as if astounded and hurt,</span>
   <span id="f000452">asked her:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">’Do you mean to say that <em>you</em> have done it?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">She broke in,</span>
   <span id="f000455">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000456">Joshua,</span>
   <span id="f000457">I was so afraid.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">He paused,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and a set,</span>
   <span id="f000460">white look came over his face.</span>
   <span id="f000461">’Mary!’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000462">’is this all the trust you have in me?</span>
   <span id="f000463">I would not have believed it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000465">Joshua!</span>
   <span id="f000466">Joshua!’ she cried entreatingly,</span>
   <span id="f000467">’forgive me,’ and wept bitterly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">Joshua thought a moment and then said:</span>
   <span id="f000469">’I see how it is.</span>
   <span id="f000470">We shall better end this or we shall all go mad.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">He ran into the drawing-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">’Where are you going?’ almost screamed Mary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">Gerald saw what he meant – that he would not be tied to blunt instruments by the force of a superstition,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and was not surprised when he saw him come out through the French window,</span>
   <span id="f000475">bearing in his hand a large Ghourka knife,</span>
   <span id="f000476">which usually lay on the centre table,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and which his brother had sent him from Northern India.</span>
   <span id="f000478">It was one of those great hunting-knives which worked such havoc,</span>
   <span id="f000479">at close quarters with the enemies of the loyal Ghourkas during the mutiny,</span>
   <span id="f000480">of great weight but so evenly balanced in the hand as to seem light,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and with an edge like a razor.</span>
   <span id="f000482">With one of these knives a Ghourka can cut a sheep in two.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">When Mary saw him come out of the room with the weapon in his hand she screamed in an agony of fright,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and the hysterics of last night were promptly renewed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">Joshua ran toward her,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and,</span>
   <span id="f000487">seeing her falling,</span>
   <span id="f000488">threw down the knife and tried to catch her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">However,</span>
   <span id="f000490">he was just a second too late,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and the two men cried out in horror simultaneously as they saw her fall upon the naked blade.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">When Gerald rushed over he found that in falling her left hand had struck the blade,</span>
   <span id="f000493">which lay partly upwards on the grass.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Some of the small veins were cut through,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and the blood gushed freely from the wound.</span>
   <span id="f000496">As he was tying it up he pointed out to Joshua that the wedding ring was severed by the steel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">They carried her fainting to the house.</span>
   <span id="f000498">When,</span>
   <span id="f000499">after a while,</span>
   <span id="f000500">she came out,</span>
   <span id="f000501">with her arm in a sling,</span>
   <span id="f000502">she was peaceful in her mind and happy.</span>
   <span id="f000503">She said to her husband:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">’The gipsy was wonderfully near the truth;</span>
   <span id="f000505">too near for the real thing ever to occur now,</span>
   <span id="f000506">dear.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">Joshua bent over and kissed the wounded hand.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

