<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Winston Tharp</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">A Retrieved Reformation</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />O. Henry</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">A guard came to the prison shoe-shop,</span>
   <span id="f000008">where Jimmy Valentine was assiduously stitching uppers,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and escorted him to the front office.</span>
   <span id="f000010">There the warden handed Jimmy his pardon,</span>
   <span id="f000011">which had been signed that morning by the governor.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Jimmy took it in a tired kind of way.</span>
   <span id="f000013">He had served nearly ten months of a four year sentence.</span>
   <span id="f000014">He had expected to stay only about three months,</span>
   <span id="f000015">at the longest.</span>
   <span id="f000016">When a man with as many friends on the outside as Jimmy Valentine had is received in the “stir” it is hardly worth while to cut his hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000018">Valentine,” said the warden,</span>
   <span id="f000019">“you’ll go out in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Brace up,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and make a man of yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000022">You’re not a bad fellow at heart.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Stop cracking safes,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and live straight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">“Me?” said Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000026">in surprise.</span>
   <span id="f000027">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000028">I never cracked a safe in my life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000030">no,” laughed the warden.</span>
   <span id="f000031">“Of course not.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Let’s see,</span>
   <span id="f000033">now.</span>
   <span id="f000034">How was it you happened to get sent up on that Springfield job?</span>
   <span id="f000035">Was it because you wouldn’t prove an alibi for fear of compromising somebody in extremely high-toned society?</span>
   <span id="f000036">Or was it simply a case of a mean old jury that had it in for you?</span>
   <span id="f000037">It’s always one or the other with you innocent victims.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“Me?” said Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000039">still blankly virtuous.</span>
   <span id="f000040">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000041">warden,</span>
   <span id="f000042">I never was in Springfield in my life!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“Take him back,</span>
   <span id="f000044">Cronin!” said the warden,</span>
   <span id="f000045">“and fix him up with outgoing clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Unlock him at seven in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and let him come to the bull-pen.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Better think over my advice,</span>
   <span id="f000049">Valentine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">At a quarter past seven on the next morning Jimmy stood in the warden’s outer office.</span>
   <span id="f000051">He had on a suit of the villainously fitting,</span>
   <span id="f000052">ready-made clothes and a pair of the stiff,</span>
   <span id="f000053">squeaky shoes that the state furnishes to its discharged compulsory guests.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">The clerk handed him a railroad ticket and the five-dollar bill with which the law expected him to rehabilitate himself into good citizenship and prosperity.</span>
   <span id="f000055">The warden gave him a cigar,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and shook hands.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Valentine,</span>
   <span id="f000058">9762,</span>
   <span id="f000059">was chronicled on the books,</span>
   <span id="f000060">“Pardoned by Governor,” and Mr.&#160;James Valentine walked out into the sunshine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">Disregarding the song of the birds,</span>
   <span id="f000062">the waving green trees,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and the smell of the flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000064">Jimmy headed straight for a restaurant.</span>
   <span id="f000065">There he tasted the first sweet joys of liberty in the shape of a broiled chicken and a bottle of white wine – followed by a cigar a grade better than the one the warden had given him.</span>
   <span id="f000066">From there he proceeded leisurely to the depot.</span>
   <span id="f000067">He tossed a quarter into the hat of a blind man sitting by the door,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and boarded his train.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Three hours set him down in a little town near the state line.</span>
   <span id="f000070">He went to the café of one Mike Dolan and shook hands with Mike,</span>
   <span id="f000071">who was alone behind the bar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">“Sorry we couldn’t make it sooner,</span>
   <span id="f000073">Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000074">me boy,” said Mike.</span>
   <span id="f000075">“But we had that protest from Springfield to buck against,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and the governor nearly balked.</span>
   <span id="f000077">Feeling all right?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“Fine,” said Jimmy.</span>
   <span id="f000079">“Got my key?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">He got his key and went upstairs,</span>
   <span id="f000081">unlocking the door of a room at the rear.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Everything was just as he had left it.</span>
   <span id="f000083">There on the floor was still Ben Price’s collar-button that had been torn from that eminent detective’s shirt-band when they had overpowered Jimmy to arrest him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">Pulling out from the wall a folding-bed,</span>
   <span id="f000085">Jimmy slid back a panel in the wall and dragged out a dust-covered suit-case.</span>
   <span id="f000086">He opened this and gazed fondly at the finest set of burglar’s tools in the East.</span>
   <span id="f000087">It was a complete set,</span>
   <span id="f000088">made of specially tempered steel,</span>
   <span id="f000089">the latest designs in drills,</span>
   <span id="f000090">punches,</span>
   <span id="f000091">braces and bits,</span>
   <span id="f000092">jimmies,</span>
   <span id="f000093">clamps,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and augers,</span>
   <span id="f000095">with two or three novelties,</span>
   <span id="f000096">invented by Jimmy himself,</span>
   <span id="f000097">in which he took pride.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Over nine hundred dollars they had cost him to have made at – ,</span>
   <span id="f000099">a place where they make such things for the profession.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">In half an hour Jimmy went down stairs and through the café.</span>
   <span id="f000101">He was now dressed in tasteful and well-fitting clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and carried his dusted and cleaned suit-case in his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Got anything on?” asked Mike Dolan,</span>
   <span id="f000104">genially.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“Me?” said Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000106">in a puzzled tone.</span>
   <span id="f000107">“I don’t understand.</span>
   <span id="f000108">I’m representing the New York Amalgamated Short Snap Biscuit Cracker and Frazzled Wheat Company.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">This statement delighted Mike to such an extent that Jimmy had to take a seltzer-and-milk on the spot.</span>
   <span id="f000110">He never touched “hard” drinks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">A week after the release of Valentine,</span>
   <span id="f000112">9762,</span>
   <span id="f000113">there was a neat job of safe-burglary done in Richmond,</span>
   <span id="f000114">Indiana,</span>
   <span id="f000115">with no clue to the author.</span>
   <span id="f000116">A scant eight hundred dollars was all that was secured.</span>
   <span id="f000117">Two weeks after that a patented,</span>
   <span id="f000118">improved,</span>
   <span id="f000119">burglar-proof safe in Logansport was opened like a cheese to the tune of fifteen hundred dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000120">currency;</span>
   <span id="f000121">securities and silver untouched.</span>
   <span id="f000122">That began to interest the rogue-catchers.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Then an old-fashioned bank-safe in Jefferson City became active and threw out of its crater an eruption of bank-notes amounting to five thousand dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000124">The losses were now high enough to bring the matter up into Ben Price’s class of work.</span>
   <span id="f000125">By comparing notes,</span>
   <span id="f000126">a remarkable similarity in the methods of the burglaries was noticed.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Ben Price investigated the scenes of the robberies,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and was heard to remark:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“That’s Dandy Jim Valentine’s autograph.</span>
   <span id="f000130">He’s resumed business.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Look at that combination knob – jerked out as easy as pulling up a radish in wet weather.</span>
   <span id="f000132">He’s got the only clamps that can do it.</span>
   <span id="f000133">And look how clean those tumblers were punched out!</span>
   <span id="f000134">Jimmy never has to drill but one hole.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000136">I guess I want Mr.&#160;Valentine.</span>
   <span id="f000137">He’ll do his bit next time without any short-time or clemency foolishness.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">Ben Price knew Jimmy’s habits.</span>
   <span id="f000139">He had learned them while working up the Springfield case.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Long jumps,</span>
   <span id="f000141">quick get-aways,</span>
   <span id="f000142">no confederates,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and a taste for good society – these ways had helped Mr.&#160;Valentine to become noted as a successful dodger of retribution.</span>
   <span id="f000144">It was given out that Ben Price had taken up the trail of the elusive cracksman,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and other people with burglar-proof safes felt more at ease.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">One afternoon Jimmy Valentine and his suit-case climbed out of the mail-hack in Elmore,</span>
   <span id="f000147">a little town five miles off the railroad down in the black-jack country of Arkansas.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000149">looking like an athletic young senior just home from college,</span>
   <span id="f000150">went down the board side-walk toward the hotel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">A young lady crossed the street,</span>
   <span id="f000152">passed him at the corner and entered a door over which was the sign,</span>
   <span id="f000153">“The Elmore Bank.” Jimmy Valentine looked into her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000154">forgot what he was,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and became another man.</span>
   <span id="f000156">She lowered her eyes and coloured slightly.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Young men of Jimmy’s style and looks were scarce in Elmore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">Jimmy collared a boy that was loafing on the steps of the bank as if he were one of the stockholders,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and began to ask him questions about the town,</span>
   <span id="f000160">feeding him dimes at intervals.</span>
   <span id="f000161">By and by the young lady came out,</span>
   <span id="f000162">looking royally unconscious of the young man with the suit-case,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and went her way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">“Isn’t that young lady Polly Simpson?” asked Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000165">with specious guile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Naw,” said the boy.</span>
   <span id="f000167">“She’s Annabel Adams.</span>
   <span id="f000168">Her pa owns this bank.</span>
   <span id="f000169">What’d you come to Elmore for?</span>
   <span id="f000170">Is that a gold watch-chain?</span>
   <span id="f000171">I’m going to get a bulldog.</span>
   <span id="f000172">Got any more dimes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">Jimmy went to the Planters’ Hotel,</span>
   <span id="f000174">registered as Ralph D.</span>
   <span id="f000175">Spencer,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and engaged a room.</span>
   <span id="f000177">He leaned on the desk and declared his platform to the clerk.</span>
   <span id="f000178">He said he had come to Elmore to look for a location to go into business.</span>
   <span id="f000179">How was the shoe business,</span>
   <span id="f000180">now,</span>
   <span id="f000181">in the town?</span>
   <span id="f000182">He had thought of the shoe business.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Was there an opening?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">The clerk was impressed by the clothes and manner of Jimmy.</span>
   <span id="f000185">He,</span>
   <span id="f000186">himself,</span>
   <span id="f000187">was something of a pattern of fashion to the thinly gilded youth of Elmore,</span>
   <span id="f000188">but he now perceived his shortcomings.</span>
   <span id="f000189">While trying to figure out Jimmy’s manner of tying his four-in-hand he cordially gave information.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000191">there ought to be a good opening in the shoe line.</span>
   <span id="f000192">There wasn’t an exclusive shoe-store in the place.</span>
   <span id="f000193">The dry-goods and general stores handled them.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Business in all lines was fairly good.</span>
   <span id="f000195">Hoped Mr.&#160;Spencer would decide to locate in Elmore.</span>
   <span id="f000196">He would find it a pleasant town to live in,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and the people very sociable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">Mr.&#160;Spencer thought he would stop over in the town a few days and look over the situation.</span>
   <span id="f000199">No,</span>
   <span id="f000200">the clerk needn’t call the boy.</span>
   <span id="f000201">He would carry up his suit-case,</span>
   <span id="f000202">himself;</span>
   <span id="f000203">it was rather heavy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">Mr.&#160;Ralph Spencer,</span>
   <span id="f000205">the phoenix that arose from Jimmy Valentine’s ashes – ashes left by the flame of a sudden and alterative attack of love – remained in Elmore,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and prospered.</span>
   <span id="f000207">He opened a shoe-store and secured a good run of trade.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">Socially he was also a success,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and made many friends.</span>
   <span id="f000210">And he accomplished the wish of his heart.</span>
   <span id="f000211">He met Miss Annabel Adams,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and became more and more captivated by her charms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">At the end of a year the situation of Mr.&#160;Ralph Spencer was this:</span>
   <span id="f000214">he had won the respect of the community,</span>
   <span id="f000215">his shoe-store was flourishing,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and he and Annabel were engaged to be married in two weeks.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Mr.&#160;Adams,</span>
   <span id="f000218">the typical,</span>
   <span id="f000219">plodding,</span>
   <span id="f000220">country banker,</span>
   <span id="f000221">approved of Spencer.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Annabel’s pride in him almost equalled her affection.</span>
   <span id="f000223">He was as much at home in the family of Mr.&#160;Adams and that of Annabel’s married sister as if he were already a member.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">One day Jimmy sat down in his room and wrote this letter,</span>
   <span id="f000225">which he mailed to the safe address of one of his old friends in St.&#160;Louis:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000226">DEAR OLD PAL:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">I want you to be at Sullivan’s place,</span>
   <span id="f000228">in Little Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000229">next Wednesday night,</span>
   <span id="f000230">at nine o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000231">I want you to wind up some little matters for me.</span>
   <span id="f000232">And,</span>
   <span id="f000233">also,</span>
   <span id="f000234">I want to make you a present of my kit of tools.</span>
   <span id="f000235">I know you’ll be glad to get them – you couldn’t duplicate the lot for a thousand dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Say,</span>
   <span id="f000237">Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000238">I’ve quit the old business – a year ago.</span>
   <span id="f000239">I’ve got a nice store.</span>
   <span id="f000240">I’m making an honest living,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and I’m going to marry the finest girl on earth two weeks from now.</span>
   <span id="f000242">It’s the only life,</span>
   <span id="f000243">Billy – the straight one.</span>
   <span id="f000244">I wouldn’t touch a dollar of another man’s money now for a million.</span>
   <span id="f000245">After I get married I’m going to sell out and go West,</span>
   <span id="f000246">where there won’t be so much danger of having old scores brought up against me.</span>
   <span id="f000247">I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000248">Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000249">she’s an angel.</span>
   <span id="f000250">She believes in me;</span>
   <span id="f000251">and I wouldn’t do another crooked thing for the whole world.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Be sure to be at Sully’s,</span>
   <span id="f000253">for I must see you.</span>
   <span id="f000254">I’ll bring along the tools with me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">Your old friend,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">JIMMY.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000257">On the Monday night after Jimmy wrote this letter,</span>
   <span id="f000258">Ben Price jogged unobtrusively into Elmore in a livery buggy.</span>
   <span id="f000259">He lounged about town in his quiet way until he found out what he wanted to know.</span>
   <span id="f000260">From the drug-store across the street from Spencer’s shoe-store he got a good look at Ralph D.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Spencer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“Going to marry the banker’s daughter are you,</span>
   <span id="f000263">Jimmy?” said Ben to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000264">softly.</span>
   <span id="f000265">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000266">I don’t know!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">The next morning Jimmy took breakfast at the Adamses.</span>
   <span id="f000268">He was going to Little Rock that day to order his wedding-suit and buy something nice for Annabel.</span>
   <span id="f000269">That would be the first time he had left town since he came to Elmore.</span>
   <span id="f000270">It had been more than a year now since those last professional “jobs,” and he thought he could safely venture out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">After breakfast quite a family party went downtown together – Mr.&#160;Adams,</span>
   <span id="f000272">Annabel,</span>
   <span id="f000273">Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and Annabel’s married sister with her two little girls,</span>
   <span id="f000275">aged five and nine.</span>
   <span id="f000276">They came by the hotel where Jimmy still boarded,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and he ran up to his room and brought along his suit-case.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Then they went on to the bank.</span>
   <span id="f000279">There stood Jimmy’s horse and buggy and Dolph Gibson,</span>
   <span id="f000280">who was going to drive him over to the railroad station.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">All went inside the high,</span>
   <span id="f000282">carved oak railings into the banking-room – Jimmy included,</span>
   <span id="f000283">for Mr.&#160;Adams’s future son-in-law was welcome anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000284">The clerks were pleased to be greeted by the good-looking,</span>
   <span id="f000285">agreeable young man who was going to marry Miss Annabel.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Jimmy set his suit-case down.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Annabel,</span>
   <span id="f000288">whose heart was bubbling with happiness and lively youth,</span>
   <span id="f000289">put on Jimmy’s hat,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and picked up the suit-case.</span>
   <span id="f000291">“Wouldn’t I make a nice drummer?” said Annabel.</span>
   <span id="f000292">“My!</span>
   <span id="f000293">Ralph,</span>
   <span id="f000294">how heavy it is?</span>
   <span id="f000295">Feels like it was full of gold bricks.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“Lot of nickel-plated shoe-horns in there,” said Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000297">coolly,</span>
   <span id="f000298">“that I’m going to return.</span>
   <span id="f000299">Thought I’d save express charges by taking them up.</span>
   <span id="f000300">I’m getting awfully economical.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">The Elmore Bank had just put in a new safe and vault.</span>
   <span id="f000302">Mr.&#160;Adams was very proud of it,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and insisted on an inspection by every one.</span>
   <span id="f000304">The vault was a small one,</span>
   <span id="f000305">but it had a new,</span>
   <span id="f000306">patented door.</span>
   <span id="f000307">It fastened with three solid steel bolts thrown simultaneously with a single handle,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and had a time-lock.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Mr.&#160;Adams beamingly explained its workings to Mr.&#160;Spencer,</span>
   <span id="f000310">who showed a courteous but not too intelligent interest.</span>
   <span id="f000311">The two children,</span>
   <span id="f000312">May and Agatha,</span>
   <span id="f000313">were delighted by the shining metal and funny clock and knobs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">While they were thus engaged Ben Price sauntered in and leaned on his elbow,</span>
   <span id="f000315">looking casually inside between the railings.</span>
   <span id="f000316">He told the teller that he didn’t want anything;</span>
   <span id="f000317">he was just waiting for a man he knew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">Suddenly there was a scream or two from the women,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and a commotion.</span>
   <span id="f000320">Unperceived by the elders,</span>
   <span id="f000321">May,</span>
   <span id="f000322">the nine-year-old girl,</span>
   <span id="f000323">in a spirit of play,</span>
   <span id="f000324">had shut Agatha in the vault.</span>
   <span id="f000325">She had then shot the bolts and turned the knob of the combination as she had seen Mr.&#160;Adams do.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">The old banker sprang to the handle and tugged at it for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000327">“The door can’t be opened,” he groaned.</span>
   <span id="f000328">“The clock hasn’t been wound nor the combination set.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">Agatha’s mother screamed again,</span>
   <span id="f000330">hysterically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“Hush!” said Mr.&#160;Adams,</span>
   <span id="f000332">raising his trembling hand.</span>
   <span id="f000333">“All be quite for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000334">Agatha!” he called as loudly as he could.</span>
   <span id="f000335">“Listen to me.” During the following silence they could just hear the faint sound of the child wildly shrieking in the dark vault in a panic of terror.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“My precious darling!” wailed the mother.</span>
   <span id="f000337">“She will die of fright!</span>
   <span id="f000338">Open the door!</span>
   <span id="f000339">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000340">break it open!</span>
   <span id="f000341">Can’t you men do something?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">“There isn’t a man nearer than Little Rock who can open that door,” said Mr.&#160;Adams,</span>
   <span id="f000343">in a shaky voice.</span>
   <span id="f000344">“My God!</span>
   <span id="f000345">Spencer,</span>
   <span id="f000346">what shall we do?</span>
   <span id="f000347">That child – she can’t stand it long in there.</span>
   <span id="f000348">There isn’t enough air,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and,</span>
   <span id="f000350">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000351">she’ll go into convulsions from fright.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">Agatha’s mother,</span>
   <span id="f000353">frantic now,</span>
   <span id="f000354">beat the door of the vault with her hands.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Somebody wildly suggested dynamite.</span>
   <span id="f000356">Annabel turned to Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000357">her large eyes full of anguish,</span>
   <span id="f000358">but not yet despairing.</span>
   <span id="f000359">To a woman nothing seems quite impossible to the powers of the man she worships.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“Can’t you do something,</span>
   <span id="f000361">Ralph – <em>try</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000362">won’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">He looked at her with a queer,</span>
   <span id="f000364">soft smile on his lips and in his keen eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“Annabel,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000366">“give me that rose you are wearing,</span>
   <span id="f000367">will you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">Hardly believing that she heard him aright,</span>
   <span id="f000369">she unpinned the bud from the bosom of her dress,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and placed it in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000371">Jimmy stuffed it into his vest-pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000372">threw off his coat and pulled up his shirt-sleeves.</span>
   <span id="f000373">With that act Ralph D.</span>
   <span id="f000374">Spencer passed away and Jimmy Valentine took his place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">“Get away from the door,</span>
   <span id="f000376">all of you,” he commanded,</span>
   <span id="f000377">shortly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">He set his suit-case on the table,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and opened it out flat.</span>
   <span id="f000380">From that time on he seemed to be unconscious of the presence of any one else.</span>
   <span id="f000381">He laid out the shining,</span>
   <span id="f000382">queer implements swiftly and orderly,</span>
   <span id="f000383">whistling softly to himself as he always did when at work.</span>
   <span id="f000384">In a deep silence and immovable,</span>
   <span id="f000385">the others watched him as if under a spell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">In a minute Jimmy’s pet drill was biting smoothly into the steel door.</span>
   <span id="f000387">In ten minutes – breaking his own burglarious record – he threw back the bolts and opened the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">Agatha,</span>
   <span id="f000389">almost collapsed,</span>
   <span id="f000390">but safe,</span>
   <span id="f000391">was gathered into her mother’s arms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">Jimmy Valentine put on his coat,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and walked outside the railings towards the front door.</span>
   <span id="f000394">As he went he thought he heard a far-away voice that he once knew call “Ralph!” But he never hesitated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">At the door a big man stood somewhat in his way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“Hello,</span>
   <span id="f000397">Ben!” said Jimmy,</span>
   <span id="f000398">still with his strange smile.</span>
   <span id="f000399">“Got around at last,</span>
   <span id="f000400">have you?</span>
   <span id="f000401">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000402">let’s go.</span>
   <span id="f000403">I don’t know that it makes much difference,</span>
   <span id="f000404">now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">And then Ben Price acted rather strangely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“Guess you’re mistaken,</span>
   <span id="f000407">Mr.&#160;Spencer,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000408">“Don’t believe I recognize you.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Your buggy’s waiting for you,</span>
   <span id="f000410">ain’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">And Ben Price turned and strolled down the street.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

