<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Robert White</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Dracula’s Guest</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Bram Stoker</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">When we started for our drive the sun was shining brightly on Munich,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and the air was full of the joyousness of early summer.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Just as we were about to depart,</span>
   <span id="f000010">Herr Delbrück</span>
   <span id="f000011">(the maître d’hôtel of the Quatre Saisons,</span>
   <span id="f000012">where I was staying)</span>
   <span id="f000013">came down,</span>
   <span id="f000014">bareheaded,</span>
   <span id="f000015">to the carriage and,</span>
   <span id="f000016">after wishing me a pleasant drive,</span>
   <span id="f000017">said to the coachman,</span>
   <span id="f000018">still holding his hand on the handle of the carriage door:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">’Remember you are back by nightfall.</span>
   <span id="f000020">The sky looks bright but there is a shiver in the north wind that says there may be a sudden storm.</span>
   <span id="f000021">But I am sure you will not be late.’ Here he smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and added,</span>
   <span id="f000023">’for you know what night it is.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">Johann answered with an emphatic,</span>
   <span id="f000025">’Ja,</span>
   <span id="f000026">mein Herr,’ and,</span>
   <span id="f000027">touching his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000028">drove off quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000029">When we had cleared the town,</span>
   <span id="f000030">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000031">after signalling to him to stop:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">’Tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000033">Johann,</span>
   <span id="f000034">what is tonight?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">He crossed himself,</span>
   <span id="f000036">as he answered laconically:</span>
   <span id="f000037">’Walpurgis nacht.’ Then he took out his watch,</span>
   <span id="f000038">a great,</span>
   <span id="f000039">old-fashioned German silver thing as big as a turnip,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and looked at it,</span>
   <span id="f000041">with his eyebrows gathered together and a little impatient shrug of his shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000042">I realised that this was his way of respectfully protesting against the unnecessary delay,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and sank back in the carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000044">merely motioning him to proceed.</span>
   <span id="f000045">He started off rapidly,</span>
   <span id="f000046">as if to make up for lost time.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Every now and then the horses seemed to throw up their heads and sniffed the air suspiciously.</span>
   <span id="f000048">On such occasions I often looked round in alarm.</span>
   <span id="f000049">The road was pretty bleak,</span>
   <span id="f000050">for we were traversing a sort of high,</span>
   <span id="f000051">wind-swept plateau.</span>
   <span id="f000052">As we drove,</span>
   <span id="f000053">I saw a road that looked but little used,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and which seemed to dip through a little,</span>
   <span id="f000055">winding valley.</span>
   <span id="f000056">It looked so inviting that,</span>
   <span id="f000057">even at the risk of offending him,</span>
   <span id="f000058">I called Johann to stop – and when he had pulled up,</span>
   <span id="f000059">I told him I would like to drive down that road.</span>
   <span id="f000060">He made all sorts of excuses,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and frequently crossed himself as he spoke.</span>
   <span id="f000062">This somewhat piqued my curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000063">so I asked him various questions.</span>
   <span id="f000064">He answered fencingly,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and repeatedly looked at his watch in protest.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Finally I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000068">Johann,</span>
   <span id="f000069">I want to go down this road.</span>
   <span id="f000070">I shall not ask you to come unless you like;</span>
   <span id="f000071">but tell me why you do not like to go,</span>
   <span id="f000072">that is all I ask.’ For answer he seemed to throw himself off the box,</span>
   <span id="f000073">so quickly did he reach the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Then he stretched out his hands appealingly to me,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and implored me not to go.</span>
   <span id="f000076">There was just enough of English mixed with the German for me to understand the drift of his talk.</span>
   <span id="f000077">He seemed always just about to tell me something – the very idea of which evidently frightened him;</span>
   <span id="f000078">but each time he pulled himself up,</span>
   <span id="f000079">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000080">as he crossed himself:</span>
   <span id="f000081">’Walpurgis-Nacht!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">I tried to argue with him,</span>
   <span id="f000083">but it was difficult to argue with a man when I did not know his language.</span>
   <span id="f000084">The advantage certainly rested with him,</span>
   <span id="f000085">for although he began to speak in English,</span>
   <span id="f000086">of a very crude and broken kind,</span>
   <span id="f000087">he always got excited and broke into his native tongue – and every time he did so,</span>
   <span id="f000088">he looked at his watch.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Then the horses became restless and sniffed the air.</span>
   <span id="f000090">At this he grew very pale,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and,</span>
   <span id="f000092">looking around in a frightened way,</span>
   <span id="f000093">he suddenly jumped forward,</span>
   <span id="f000094">took them by the bridles and led them on some twenty feet.</span>
   <span id="f000095">I followed,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and asked why he had done this.</span>
   <span id="f000097">For answer he crossed himself,</span>
   <span id="f000098">pointed to the spot we had left and drew his carriage in the direction of the other road,</span>
   <span id="f000099">indicating a cross,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000101">first in German,</span>
   <span id="f000102">then in English:</span>
   <span id="f000103">’Buried him – him what killed themselves.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">I remembered the old custom of burying suicides at cross-roads:</span>
   <span id="f000105">’Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000106">I see,</span>
   <span id="f000107">a suicide.</span>
   <span id="f000108">How interesting!’ But for the life of me I could not make out why the horses were frightened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">Whilst we were talking,</span>
   <span id="f000110">we heard a sort of sound between a yelp and a bark.</span>
   <span id="f000111">It was far away;</span>
   <span id="f000112">but the horses got very restless,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and it took Johann all his time to quiet them.</span>
   <span id="f000114">He was pale,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000116">’It sounds like a wolf – but yet there are no wolves here now.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">’No?’ I said,</span>
   <span id="f000118">questioning him;</span>
   <span id="f000119">’isn’t it long since the wolves were so near the city?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">’Long,</span>
   <span id="f000121">long,’ he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000122">’in the spring and summer;</span>
   <span id="f000123">but with the snow the wolves have been here not so long.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">Whilst he was petting the horses and trying to quiet them,</span>
   <span id="f000125">dark clouds drifted rapidly across the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000126">The sunshine passed away,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and a breath of cold wind seemed to drift past us.</span>
   <span id="f000128">It was only a breath,</span>
   <span id="f000129">however,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and more in the nature of a warning than a fact,</span>
   <span id="f000131">for the sun came out brightly again.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Johann looked under his lifted hand at the horizon and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">’The storm of snow,</span>
   <span id="f000134">he comes before long time.’ Then he looked at his watch again,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and,</span>
   <span id="f000136">straightway holding his reins firmly – for the horses were still pawing the ground restlessly and shaking their heads – he climbed to his box as though the time had come for proceeding on our journey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">I felt a little obstinate and did not at once get into the carriage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">’Tell me,’ I said,</span>
   <span id="f000139">’about this place where the road leads,’ and I pointed down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">Again he crossed himself and mumbled a prayer,</span>
   <span id="f000141">before he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000142">’It is unholy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">’What is unholy?’ I enquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">’The village.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">’Then there is a village?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000147">no.</span>
   <span id="f000148">No one lives there hundreds of years.’ My curiosity was piqued,</span>
   <span id="f000149">’But you said there was a village.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">’There was.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">’Where is it now?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">Whereupon he burst out into a long story in German and English,</span>
   <span id="f000153">so mixed up that I could not quite understand exactly what he said,</span>
   <span id="f000154">but roughly I gathered that long ago,</span>
   <span id="f000155">hundreds of years,</span>
   <span id="f000156">men had died there and been buried in their graves;</span>
   <span id="f000157">and sounds were heard under the clay,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and when the graves were opened,</span>
   <span id="f000159">men and women were found rosy with life,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and their mouths red with blood.</span>
   <span id="f000161">And so,</span>
   <span id="f000162">in haste to save their lives</span>
   <span id="f000163">(aye,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and their souls!</span>
   <span id="f000165">– and here he crossed himself)</span>
   <span id="f000166">those who were left fled away to other places,</span>
   <span id="f000167">where the living lived,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and the dead were dead and not – not something.</span>
   <span id="f000169">He was evidently afraid to speak the last words.</span>
   <span id="f000170">As he proceeded with his narration,</span>
   <span id="f000171">he grew more and more excited.</span>
   <span id="f000172">It seemed as if his imagination had got hold of him,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and he ended in a perfect paroxysm of fear – white-faced,</span>
   <span id="f000174">perspiring,</span>
   <span id="f000175">trembling and looking round him,</span>
   <span id="f000176">as if expecting that some dreadful presence would manifest itself there in the bright sunshine on the open plain.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f000178">in an agony of desperation,</span>
   <span id="f000179">he cried:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">’Walpurgis nacht!’ and pointed to the carriage for me to get in.</span>
   <span id="f000181">All my English blood rose at this,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and,</span>
   <span id="f000183">standing back,</span>
   <span id="f000184">I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">’You are afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000186">Johann – you are afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Go home;</span>
   <span id="f000188">I shall return alone;</span>
   <span id="f000189">the walk will do me good.’ The carriage door was open.</span>
   <span id="f000190">I took from the seat my oak walking-stick – which I always carry on my holiday excursions – and closed the door,</span>
   <span id="f000191">pointing back to Munich,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000193">’Go home,</span>
   <span id="f000194">Johann – Walpurgis-nacht doesn’t concern Englishmen.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">The horses were now more restive than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and Johann was trying to hold them in,</span>
   <span id="f000197">while excitedly imploring me not to do anything so foolish.</span>
   <span id="f000198">I pitied the poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000199">he was deeply in earnest;</span>
   <span id="f000200">but all the same I could not help laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000201">His English was quite gone now.</span>
   <span id="f000202">In his anxiety he had forgotten that his only means of making me understand was to talk my language,</span>
   <span id="f000203">so he jabbered away in his native German.</span>
   <span id="f000204">It began to be a little tedious.</span>
   <span id="f000205">After giving the direction,</span>
   <span id="f000206">’Home!’ I turned to go down the cross-road into the valley.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">With a despairing gesture,</span>
   <span id="f000208">Johann turned his horses towards Munich.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I leaned on my stick and looked after him.</span>
   <span id="f000210">He went slowly along the road for a while:</span>
   <span id="f000211">then there came over the crest of the hill a man tall and thin.</span>
   <span id="f000212">I could see so much in the distance.</span>
   <span id="f000213">When he drew near the horses,</span>
   <span id="f000214">they began to jump and kick about,</span>
   <span id="f000215">then to scream with terror.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Johann could not hold them in;</span>
   <span id="f000217">they bolted down the road,</span>
   <span id="f000218">running away madly.</span>
   <span id="f000219">I watched them out of sight,</span>
   <span id="f000220">then looked for the stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000221">but I found that he,</span>
   <span id="f000222">too,</span>
   <span id="f000223">was gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">With a light heart I turned down the side road through the deepening valley to which Johann had objected.</span>
   <span id="f000225">There was not the slightest reason,</span>
   <span id="f000226">that I could see,</span>
   <span id="f000227">for his objection;</span>
   <span id="f000228">and I daresay I tramped for a couple of hours without thinking of time or distance,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and certainly without seeing a person or a house.</span>
   <span id="f000230">So far as the place was concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000231">it was desolation itself.</span>
   <span id="f000232">But I did not notice this particularly till,</span>
   <span id="f000233">on turning a bend in the road,</span>
   <span id="f000234">I came upon a scattered fringe of wood;</span>
   <span id="f000235">then I recognised that I had been impressed unconsciously by the desolation of the region through which I had passed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">I sat down to rest myself,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and began to look around.</span>
   <span id="f000238">It struck me that it was considerably colder than it had been at the commencement of my walk – a sort of sighing sound seemed to be around me,</span>
   <span id="f000239">with,</span>
   <span id="f000240">now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000241">high overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000242">a sort of muffled roar.</span>
   <span id="f000243">Looking upwards I noticed that great thick clouds were drifting rapidly across the sky from North to South at a great height.</span>
   <span id="f000244">There were signs of coming storm in some lofty stratum of the air.</span>
   <span id="f000245">I was a little chilly,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and,</span>
   <span id="f000247">thinking that it was the sitting still after the exercise of walking,</span>
   <span id="f000248">I resumed my journey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">The ground I passed over was now much more picturesque.</span>
   <span id="f000250">There were no striking objects that the eye might single out;</span>
   <span id="f000251">but in all there was a charm of beauty.</span>
   <span id="f000252">I took little heed of time and it was only when the deepening twilight forced itself upon me that I began to think of how I should find my way home.</span>
   <span id="f000253">The brightness of the day had gone.</span>
   <span id="f000254">The air was cold,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and the drifting of clouds high overhead was more marked.</span>
   <span id="f000256">They were accompanied by a sort of far-away rushing sound,</span>
   <span id="f000257">through which seemed to come at intervals that mysterious cry which the driver had said came from a wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000258">For a while I hesitated.</span>
   <span id="f000259">I had said I would see the deserted village,</span>
   <span id="f000260">so on I went,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and presently came on a wide stretch of open country,</span>
   <span id="f000262">shut in by hills all around.</span>
   <span id="f000263">Their sides were covered with trees which spread down to the plain,</span>
   <span id="f000264">dotting,</span>
   <span id="f000265">in clumps,</span>
   <span id="f000266">the gentler slopes and hollows which showed here and there.</span>
   <span id="f000267">I followed with my eye the winding of the road,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and saw that it curved close to one of the densest of these clumps and was lost behind it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">As I looked there came a cold shiver in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and the snow began to fall.</span>
   <span id="f000271">I thought of the miles and miles of bleak country I had passed,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and then hurried on to seek the shelter of the wood in front.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Darker and darker grew the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and faster and heavier fell the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000275">till the earth before and around me was a glistening white carpet the further edge of which was lost in misty vagueness.</span>
   <span id="f000276">The road was here but crude,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and when on the level its boundaries were not so marked,</span>
   <span id="f000278">as when it passed through the cuttings;</span>
   <span id="f000279">and in a little while I found that I must have strayed from it,</span>
   <span id="f000280">for I missed underfoot the hard surface,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and my feet sank deeper in the grass and moss.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Then the wind grew stronger and blew with ever increasing force,</span>
   <span id="f000283">till I was fain to run before it.</span>
   <span id="f000284">The air became icy-cold,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and in spite of my exercise I began to suffer.</span>
   <span id="f000286">The snow was now falling so thickly and whirling around me in such rapid eddies that I could hardly keep my eyes open.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Every now and then the heavens were torn asunder by vivid lightning,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and in the flashes I could see ahead of me a great mass of trees,</span>
   <span id="f000289">chiefly yew and cypress all heavily coated with snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">I was soon amongst the shelter of the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000292">in comparative silence,</span>
   <span id="f000293">I could hear the rush of the wind high overhead.</span>
   <span id="f000294">Presently the blackness of the storm had become merged in the darkness of the night.</span>
   <span id="f000295">By-and-by the storm seemed to be passing away:</span>
   <span id="f000296">it now only came in fierce puffs or blasts.</span>
   <span id="f000297">At such moments the weird sound of the wolf appeared to be echoed by many similar sounds around me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">Now and again,</span>
   <span id="f000299">through the black mass of drifting cloud,</span>
   <span id="f000300">came a straggling ray of moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000301">which lit up the expanse,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and showed me that I was at the edge of a dense mass of cypress and yew trees.</span>
   <span id="f000303">As the snow had ceased to fall,</span>
   <span id="f000304">I walked out from the shelter and began to investigate more closely.</span>
   <span id="f000305">It appeared to me that,</span>
   <span id="f000306">amongst so many old foundations as I had passed,</span>
   <span id="f000307">there might be still standing a house in which,</span>
   <span id="f000308">though in ruins,</span>
   <span id="f000309">I could find some sort of shelter for a while.</span>
   <span id="f000310">As I skirted the edge of the copse,</span>
   <span id="f000311">I found that a low wall encircled it,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and following this I presently found an opening.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Here the cypresses formed an alley leading up to a square mass of some kind of building.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Just as I caught sight of this,</span>
   <span id="f000315">however,</span>
   <span id="f000316">the drifting clouds obscured the moon,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and I passed up the path in darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000318">The wind must have grown colder,</span>
   <span id="f000319">for I felt myself shiver as I walked;</span>
   <span id="f000320">but there was hope of shelter,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and I groped my way blindly on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">I stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000323">for there was a sudden stillness.</span>
   <span id="f000324">The storm had passed;</span>
   <span id="f000325">and,</span>
   <span id="f000326">perhaps in sympathy with nature’s silence,</span>
   <span id="f000327">my heart seemed to cease to beat.</span>
   <span id="f000328">But this was only momentarily;</span>
   <span id="f000329">for suddenly the moonlight broke through the clouds,</span>
   <span id="f000330">showing me that I was in a graveyard,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and that the square object before me was a great massive tomb of marble,</span>
   <span id="f000332">as white as the snow that lay on and all around it.</span>
   <span id="f000333">With the moonlight there came a fierce sigh of the storm,</span>
   <span id="f000334">which appeared to resume its course with a long,</span>
   <span id="f000335">low howl,</span>
   <span id="f000336">as of many dogs or wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000337">I was awed and shocked,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and felt the cold perceptibly grow upon me till it seemed to grip me by the heart.</span>
   <span id="f000339">Then while the flood of moonlight still fell on the marble tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000340">the storm gave further evidence of renewing,</span>
   <span id="f000341">as though it was returning on its track.</span>
   <span id="f000342">Impelled by some sort of fascination,</span>
   <span id="f000343">I approached the sepulchre to see what it was,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and why such a thing stood alone in such a place.</span>
   <span id="f000345">I walked around it,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and read,</span>
   <span id="f000347">over the Doric door,</span>
   <span id="f000348">in German:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000349">COUNTESS DOLINGEN OF GRATZ<br /></span>
   <span id="f000350">IN STYRIA<br /></span>
   <span id="f000351">SOUGHT AND FOUND DEATH<br /></span>
   <span id="f000352">1801</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000353">On the top of the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000354">seemingly driven through the solid marble – for the structure was composed of a few vast blocks of stone – was a great iron spike or stake.</span>
   <span id="f000355">On going to the back I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000356">graven in great Russian letters:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000357">’The dead travel fast.’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000358">There was something so weird and uncanny about the whole thing that it gave me a turn and made me feel quite faint.</span>
   <span id="f000359">I began to wish,</span>
   <span id="f000360">for the first time,</span>
   <span id="f000361">that I had taken Johann’s advice.</span>
   <span id="f000362">Here a thought struck me,</span>
   <span id="f000363">which came under almost mysterious circumstances and with a terrible shock.</span>
   <span id="f000364">This was Walpurgis Night!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">Walpurgis Night,</span>
   <span id="f000366">when,</span>
   <span id="f000367">according to the belief of millions of people,</span>
   <span id="f000368">the devil was abroad – when the graves were opened and the dead came forth and walked.</span>
   <span id="f000369">When all evil things of earth and air and water held revel.</span>
   <span id="f000370">This very place the driver had specially shunned.</span>
   <span id="f000371">This was the depopulated village of centuries ago.</span>
   <span id="f000372">This was where the suicide lay;</span>
   <span id="f000373">and this was the place where I was alone – unmanned,</span>
   <span id="f000374">shivering with cold in a shroud of snow with a wild storm gathering again upon me!</span>
   <span id="f000375">It took all my philosophy,</span>
   <span id="f000376">all the religion I had been taught,</span>
   <span id="f000377">all my courage,</span>
   <span id="f000378">not to collapse in a paroxysm of fright.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">And now a perfect tornado burst upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000380">The ground shook as though thousands of horses thundered across it;</span>
   <span id="f000381">and this time the storm bore on its icy wings,</span>
   <span id="f000382">not snow,</span>
   <span id="f000383">but great hailstones which drove with such violence that they might have come from the thongs of Balearic slingers – hailstones that beat down leaf and branch and made the shelter of the cypresses of no more avail than though their stems were standing-corn.</span>
   <span id="f000384">At the first I had rushed to the nearest tree;</span>
   <span id="f000385">but I was soon fain to leave it and seek the only spot that seemed to afford refuge,</span>
   <span id="f000386">the deep Doric doorway of the marble tomb.</span>
   <span id="f000387">There,</span>
   <span id="f000388">crouching against the massive bronze door,</span>
   <span id="f000389">I gained a certain amount of protection from the beating of the hailstones,</span>
   <span id="f000390">for now they only drove against me as they ricocheted from the ground and the side of the marble.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">As I leaned against the door,</span>
   <span id="f000392">it moved slightly and opened inwards.</span>
   <span id="f000393">The shelter of even a tomb was welcome in that pitiless tempest,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and I was about to enter it when there came a flash of forked-lightning that lit up the whole expanse of the heavens.</span>
   <span id="f000395">In the instant,</span>
   <span id="f000396">as I am a living man,</span>
   <span id="f000397">I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000398">as my eyes were turned into the darkness of the tomb,</span>
   <span id="f000399">a beautiful woman,</span>
   <span id="f000400">with rounded cheeks and red lips,</span>
   <span id="f000401">seemingly sleeping on a bier.</span>
   <span id="f000402">As the thunder broke overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000403">I was grasped as by the hand of a giant and hurled out into the storm.</span>
   <span id="f000404">The whole thing was so sudden that,</span>
   <span id="f000405">before I could realise the shock,</span>
   <span id="f000406">moral as well as physical,</span>
   <span id="f000407">I found the hailstones beating me down.</span>
   <span id="f000408">At the same time I had a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000409">dominating feeling that I was not alone.</span>
   <span id="f000410">I looked towards the tomb.</span>
   <span id="f000411">Just then there came another blinding flash,</span>
   <span id="f000412">which seemed to strike the iron stake that surmounted the tomb and to pour through to the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000413">blasting and crumbling the marble,</span>
   <span id="f000414">as in a burst of flame.</span>
   <span id="f000415">The dead woman rose for a moment of agony,</span>
   <span id="f000416">while she was lapped in the flame,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and her bitter scream of pain was drowned in the thundercrash.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The last thing I heard was this mingling of dreadful sound,</span>
   <span id="f000419">as again I was seized in the giant-grasp and dragged away,</span>
   <span id="f000420">while the hailstones beat on me,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and the air around seemed reverberant with the howling of wolves.</span>
   <span id="f000422">The last sight that I remembered was a vague,</span>
   <span id="f000423">white,</span>
   <span id="f000424">moving mass,</span>
   <span id="f000425">as if all the graves around me had sent out the phantoms of their sheeted-dead,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and that they were closing in on me through the white cloudiness of the driving hail.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000427">Gradually there came a sort of vague beginning of consciousness;</span>
   <span id="f000428">then a sense of weariness that was dreadful.</span>
   <span id="f000429">For a time I remembered nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000430">but slowly my senses returned.</span>
   <span id="f000431">My feet seemed positively racked with pain,</span>
   <span id="f000432">yet I could not move them.</span>
   <span id="f000433">They seemed to be numbed.</span>
   <span id="f000434">There was an icy feeling at the back of my neck and all down my spine,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and my ears,</span>
   <span id="f000436">like my feet,</span>
   <span id="f000437">were dead,</span>
   <span id="f000438">yet in torment;</span>
   <span id="f000439">but there was in my breast a sense of warmth which was,</span>
   <span id="f000440">by comparison,</span>
   <span id="f000441">delicious.</span>
   <span id="f000442">It was as a nightmare – a physical nightmare,</span>
   <span id="f000443">if one may use such an expression;</span>
   <span id="f000444">for some heavy weight on my chest made it difficult for me to breathe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">This period of semi-lethargy seemed to remain a long time,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and as it faded away I must have slept or swooned.</span>
   <span id="f000447">Then came a sort of loathing,</span>
   <span id="f000448">like the first stage of sea-sickness,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and a wild desire to be free from something – I knew not what.</span>
   <span id="f000450">A vast stillness enveloped me,</span>
   <span id="f000451">as though all the world were asleep or dead – only broken by the low panting as of some animal close to me.</span>
   <span id="f000452">I felt a warm rasping at my throat,</span>
   <span id="f000453">then came a consciousness of the awful truth,</span>
   <span id="f000454">which chilled me to the heart and sent the blood surging up through my brain.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Some great animal was lying on me and now licking my throat.</span>
   <span id="f000456">I feared to stir,</span>
   <span id="f000457">for some instinct of prudence bade me lie still;</span>
   <span id="f000458">but the brute seemed to realise that there was now some change in me,</span>
   <span id="f000459">for it raised its head.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Through my eyelashes I saw above me the two great flaming eyes of a gigantic wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000461">Its sharp white teeth gleamed in the gaping red mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and I could feel its hot breath fierce and acrid upon me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">For another spell of time I remembered no more.</span>
   <span id="f000464">Then I became conscious of a low growl,</span>
   <span id="f000465">followed by a yelp,</span>
   <span id="f000466">renewed again and again.</span>
   <span id="f000467">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000468">seemingly very far away,</span>
   <span id="f000469">I heard a ’Holloa!</span>
   <span id="f000470">holloa!’ as of many voices calling in unison.</span>
   <span id="f000471">Cautiously I raised my head and looked in the direction whence the sound came;</span>
   <span id="f000472">but the cemetery blocked my view.</span>
   <span id="f000473">The wolf still continued to yelp in a strange way,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and a red glare began to move round the grove of cypresses,</span>
   <span id="f000475">as though following the sound.</span>
   <span id="f000476">As the voices drew closer,</span>
   <span id="f000477">the wolf yelped faster and louder.</span>
   <span id="f000478">I feared to make either sound or motion.</span>
   <span id="f000479">Nearer came the red glow,</span>
   <span id="f000480">over the white pall which stretched into the darkness around me.</span>
   <span id="f000481">Then all at once from beyond the trees there came at a trot a troop of horsemen bearing torches.</span>
   <span id="f000482">The wolf rose from my breast and made for the cemetery.</span>
   <span id="f000483">I saw one of the horsemen</span>
   <span id="f000484">(soldiers by their caps and their long military cloaks)</span>
   <span id="f000485">raise his carbine and take aim.</span>
   <span id="f000486">A companion knocked up his arm,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and I heard the ball whizz over my head.</span>
   <span id="f000488">He had evidently taken my body for that of the wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000489">Another sighted the animal as it slunk away,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and a shot followed.</span>
   <span id="f000491">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000492">at a gallop,</span>
   <span id="f000493">the troop rode forward – some towards me,</span>
   <span id="f000494">others following the wolf as it disappeared amongst the snow-clad cypresses.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">As they drew nearer I tried to move,</span>
   <span id="f000496">but was powerless,</span>
   <span id="f000497">although I could see and hear all that went on around me.</span>
   <span id="f000498">Two or three of the soldiers jumped from their horses and knelt beside me.</span>
   <span id="f000499">One of them raised my head,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and placed his hand over my heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">’Good news,</span>
   <span id="f000502">comrades!’ he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000503">’His heart still beats!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">Then some brandy was poured down my throat;</span>
   <span id="f000505">it put vigour into me,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and I was able to open my eyes fully and look around.</span>
   <span id="f000507">Lights and shadows were moving among the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and I heard men call to one another.</span>
   <span id="f000509">They drew together,</span>
   <span id="f000510">uttering frightened exclamations;</span>
   <span id="f000511">and the lights flashed as the others came pouring out of the cemetery pell-mell,</span>
   <span id="f000512">like men possessed.</span>
   <span id="f000513">When the further ones came close to us,</span>
   <span id="f000514">those who were around me asked them eagerly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000516">have you found him?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">The reply rang out hurriedly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">’No!</span>
   <span id="f000519">no!</span>
   <span id="f000520">Come away quick – quick!</span>
   <span id="f000521">This is no place to stay,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and on this of all nights!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">’What was it?’ was the question,</span>
   <span id="f000524">asked in all manner of keys.</span>
   <span id="f000525">The answer came variously and all indefinitely as though the men were moved by some common impulse to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000526">yet were restrained by some common fear from giving their thoughts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">’It – it – indeed!’ gibbered one,</span>
   <span id="f000528">whose wits had plainly given out for the moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">’A wolf – and yet not a wolf!’ another put in shudderingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">’No use trying for him without the sacred bullet,’ a third remarked in a more ordinary manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">’Serve us right for coming out on this night!</span>
   <span id="f000532">Truly we have earned our thousand marks!’ were the ejaculations of a fourth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">’There was blood on the broken marble,’ another said after a pause – ’the lightning never brought that there.</span>
   <span id="f000534">And for him – is he safe?</span>
   <span id="f000535">Look at his throat!</span>
   <span id="f000536">See,</span>
   <span id="f000537">comrades,</span>
   <span id="f000538">the wolf has been lying on him and keeping his blood warm.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">The officer looked at my throat and replied:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">’He is all right;</span>
   <span id="f000541">the skin is not pierced.</span>
   <span id="f000542">What does it all mean?</span>
   <span id="f000543">We should never have found him but for the yelping of the wolf.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">’What became of it?’ asked the man who was holding up my head,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and who seemed the least panic-stricken of the party,</span>
   <span id="f000546">for his hands were steady and without tremor.</span>
   <span id="f000547">On his sleeve was the chevron of a petty officer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">’It went to its home,’ answered the man,</span>
   <span id="f000549">whose long face was pallid,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and who actually shook with terror as he glanced around him fearfully.</span>
   <span id="f000551">’There are graves enough there in which it may lie.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000553">comrades – come quickly!</span>
   <span id="f000554">Let us leave this cursed spot.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">The officer raised me to a sitting posture,</span>
   <span id="f000556">as he uttered a word of command;</span>
   <span id="f000557">then several men placed me upon a horse.</span>
   <span id="f000558">He sprang to the saddle behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000559">took me in his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000560">gave the word to advance;</span>
   <span id="f000561">and,</span>
   <span id="f000562">turning our faces away from the cypresses,</span>
   <span id="f000563">we rode away in swift,</span>
   <span id="f000564">military order.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">As yet my tongue refused its office,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and I was perforce silent.</span>
   <span id="f000567">I must have fallen asleep;</span>
   <span id="f000568">for the next thing I remembered was finding myself standing up,</span>
   <span id="f000569">supported by a soldier on each side of me.</span>
   <span id="f000570">It was almost broad daylight,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and to the north a red streak of sunlight was reflected,</span>
   <span id="f000572">like a path of blood,</span>
   <span id="f000573">over the waste of snow.</span>
   <span id="f000574">The officer was telling the men to say nothing of what they had seen,</span>
   <span id="f000575">except that they found an English stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000576">guarded by a large dog.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">’Dog!</span>
   <span id="f000578">that was no dog,’ cut in the man who had exhibited such fear.</span>
   <span id="f000579">’I think I know a wolf when I see one.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">The young officer answered calmly:</span>
   <span id="f000581">’I said a dog.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">’Dog!’ reiterated the other ironically.</span>
   <span id="f000583">It was evident that his courage was rising with the sun;</span>
   <span id="f000584">and,</span>
   <span id="f000585">pointing to me,</span>
   <span id="f000586">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000587">’Look at his throat.</span>
   <span id="f000588">Is that the work of a dog,</span>
   <span id="f000589">master?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">Instinctively I raised my hand to my throat,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and as I touched it I cried out in pain.</span>
   <span id="f000592">The men crowded round to look,</span>
   <span id="f000593">some stooping down from their saddles;</span>
   <span id="f000594">and again there came the calm voice of the young officer:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">’A dog,</span>
   <span id="f000596">as I said.</span>
   <span id="f000597">If aught else were said we should only be laughed at.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">I was then mounted behind a trooper,</span>
   <span id="f000599">and we rode on into the suburbs of Munich.</span>
   <span id="f000600">Here we came across a stray carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000601">into which I was lifted,</span>
   <span id="f000602">and it was driven off to the Quatre Saisons – the young officer accompanying me,</span>
   <span id="f000603">whilst a trooper followed with his horse,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and the others rode off to their barracks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">When we arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000606">Herr Delbrück rushed so quickly down the steps to meet me,</span>
   <span id="f000607">that it was apparent he had been watching within.</span>
   <span id="f000608">Taking me by both hands he solicitously led me in.</span>
   <span id="f000609">The officer saluted me and was turning to withdraw,</span>
   <span id="f000610">when I recognised his purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and insisted that he should come to my rooms.</span>
   <span id="f000612">Over a glass of wine I warmly thanked him and his brave comrades for saving me.</span>
   <span id="f000613">He replied simply that he was more than glad,</span>
   <span id="f000614">and that Herr Delbrück had at the first taken steps to make all the searching party pleased;</span>
   <span id="f000615">at which ambiguous utterance the maître d’hôtel smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000616">while the officer pleaded duty and withdrew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">’But Herr Delbrück,’ I enquired,</span>
   <span id="f000618">’how and why was it that the soldiers searched for me?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">He shrugged his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000620">as if in depreciation of his own deed,</span>
   <span id="f000621">as he replied:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">’I was so fortunate as to obtain leave from the commander of the regiment in which I served,</span>
   <span id="f000623">to ask for volunteers.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000624">’But how did you know I was lost?’ I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">’The driver came hither with the remains of his carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000626">which had been upset when the horses ran away.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">’But surely you would not send a search-party of soldiers merely on this account?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000628">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000629">no!’ he answered;</span>
   <span id="f000630">’but even before the coachman arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000631">I had this telegram from the Boyar whose guest you are,’ and he took from his pocket a telegram which he handed to me,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and I read:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000633"><em>Bistritz</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">Be careful of my guest – his safety is most precious to me.</span>
   <span id="f000635">Should aught happen to him,</span>
   <span id="f000636">or if he be missed,</span>
   <span id="f000637">spare nothing to find him and ensure his safety.</span>
   <span id="f000638">He is English and therefore adventurous.</span>
   <span id="f000639">There are often dangers from snow and wolves and night.</span>
   <span id="f000640">Lose not a moment if you suspect harm to him.</span>
   <span id="f000641">I answer your zeal with my fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000642">– <em>Dracula</em>.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000643">As I held the telegram in my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000644">the room seemed to whirl around me;</span>
   <span id="f000645">and,</span>
   <span id="f000646">if the attentive maître d’hôtel had not caught me,</span>
   <span id="f000647">I think I should have fallen.</span>
   <span id="f000648">There was something so strange in all this,</span>
   <span id="f000649">something so weird and impossible to imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000650">that there grew on me a sense of my being in some way the sport of opposite forces – the mere vague idea of which seemed in a way to paralyse me.</span>
   <span id="f000651">I was certainly under some form of mysterious protection.</span>
   <span id="f000652">From a distant country had come,</span>
   <span id="f000653">in the very nick of time,</span>
   <span id="f000654">a message that took me out of the danger of the snow-sleep and the jaws of the wolf.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

