<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Leonard Wilson</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Among the Corn Rows</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Hamlin Garland</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000007">Part I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000008">“But the road sometimes passes a rich meadow,</span>
   <span id="f000009">where the songs o/ larks and bobolinks and blackbirds are tangled.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">ROB held up his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000011">from which the dough depended in ragged strings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">“Biscuits,” he said with an elaborate working of his jaws,</span>
   <span id="f000013">intended to convey the idea that they were going to be specially delicious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Seagraves laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000015">but did not enter the shanty door.</span>
   <span id="f000016">“How do you like baching it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000018">don’t mention it!” entreated Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000019">mauling the dough again.</span>
   <span id="f000020">“Come in an’ sit down.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Why in thunder y’ standin’ out there for?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000023">I’d rather be where I can see the prairie.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Great weather!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">“Im-mense!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“How goes breaking?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">“Tip-top!</span>
   <span id="f000028">A leette dry now;</span>
   <span id="f000029">but the bulls pull the plow through two acres a day.</span>
   <span id="f000030">How’s things in Boomtown?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000032">same old grind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">“Judge still lyin’?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“Still at it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">“Major Mullens still swearin’ to it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“You hit it like a mallet.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Railroad schemes are thicker’n prairie chickens.</span>
   <span id="f000038">You’ve got grit,</span>
   <span id="f000039">Rob.</span>
   <span id="f000040">I don’t have anything but crackers and sardines over to my shanty,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and here you are making soda biscuit.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“I have t’ do it.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Couldn’t break if I didn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000044">You editors c’n take things easy,</span>
   <span id="f000045">lay around on the prairie,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and watch the plovers and medderlarks;</span>
   <span id="f000047">but we settlers have got to work.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">Leaving Rob to sputter over his cooking,</span>
   <span id="f000049">Seagraves took his slow way off down toward the oxen grazing in a little hollow.</span>
   <span id="f000050">The scene was characteristically,</span>
   <span id="f000051">wonderfully beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000052">It was about five o’clock in a day in late June,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and the level plain was green and yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and infinite in reach as a sea;</span>
   <span id="f000055">the lowering sun was casting over its distant swells a faint impalpable mist,</span>
   <span id="f000056">through which the breaking teams on the neighboring claims plowed noiselessly,</span>
   <span id="f000057">as figures in a dream.</span>
   <span id="f000058">The whistle of gophers,</span>
   <span id="f000059">the faint,</span>
   <span id="f000060">wailing,</span>
   <span id="f000061">fluttering cry of the falling plover,</span>
   <span id="f000062">the whir of the swift-winged prairie pigeon,</span>
   <span id="f000063">or the quack of a lonely duck,</span>
   <span id="f000064">came through the shimmering air.</span>
   <span id="f000065">The lark’s infrequent whistle,</span>
   <span id="f000066">piercingly sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000067">broke from the longer grass in the swales nearby.</span>
   <span id="f000068">No other climate,</span>
   <span id="f000069">sky,</span>
   <span id="f000070">plain,</span>
   <span id="f000071">could produce the same unnamable weird charm.</span>
   <span id="f000072">No tree to wave,</span>
   <span id="f000073">no grass to rustle;</span>
   <span id="f000074">scarcely a sound of domestic life;</span>
   <span id="f000075">only the faint melancholy soughing of the wind in the short grass,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and the voices of the wild things of the prairie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">Seagraves,</span>
   <span id="f000078">an impressionable young man</span>
   <span id="f000079">(junior editor of the Boomtown Spike),</span>
   <span id="f000080">threw himself down on the sod,</span>
   <span id="f000081">pulled his hat rim down over his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and looked away over the plain.</span>
   <span id="f000083">It was the second year of Boom-town’s existence,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and Seagraves had not yet grown restless under its monotony.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Around him the gophers played saucily.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Teams were moving here and there across the sod,</span>
   <span id="f000087">with a peculiar noiseless,</span>
   <span id="f000088">effortless motion that made them seem as calm,</span>
   <span id="f000089">lazy,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and unsubstantial as the mist through which they made their way;</span>
   <span id="f000091">even the sound of passing wagons was a sort of low,</span>
   <span id="f000092">well-fed,</span>
   <span id="f000093">self-satisfied chuckle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">Seagraves,</span>
   <span id="f000095">“holding down a claim” near Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000096">had come to see his neighboring “bach” because of feeling the need of company;</span>
   <span id="f000097">but now that he was near enough to hear him prancing about getting supper,</span>
   <span id="f000098">he was content to lie alone on a slope of the green sod.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">The silence of the prairie at night was well-nigh terrible.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Many a night,</span>
   <span id="f000101">as Seagraves lay in his bunk against the side of his cabin,</span>
   <span id="f000102">he would strain his ear to hear the slightest sound,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and he listening thus sometimes for minutes before the squeak of a mouse or the step of a passing fox came as a relief to the aching sense.</span>
   <span id="f000104">In the daytime,</span>
   <span id="f000105">however,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and especially on a morning,</span>
   <span id="f000107">the prairie was another thing.</span>
   <span id="f000108">The pigeons,</span>
   <span id="f000109">the larks;</span>
   <span id="f000110">the cranes,</span>
   <span id="f000111">the multitudinous voices of the ground birds and snipes and insects,</span>
   <span id="f000112">made the air pulsate with sound-a chorus that died away into an infinite murmur of music.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“Hello,</span>
   <span id="f000114">Seagraves!” yelled Rob from the door.</span>
   <span id="f000115">“The biscuit are ’most done.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">Seagraves did not speak,</span>
   <span id="f000117">only nodded his head and slowly rose.</span>
   <span id="f000118">The faint clouds in the west were getting a superb flame color above and a misty purple below,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and the sun had shot them with lances of yellow light.</span>
   <span id="f000120">As the air grew denser with moisture,</span>
   <span id="f000121">the sounds of neighboring life began to reach the ear.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Children screamed and laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and afar off a woman was singing a lullaby.</span>
   <span id="f000124">The rattle of wagons and voices of men speaking to their teams multiplied.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Ducks in a neighboring lowland were quacking.</span>
   <span id="f000126">The whole scene took hold upon Seagraves with irresistible power.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“It is American,” he exclaimed.</span>
   <span id="f000128">’No other land or time can match this mellow air,</span>
   <span id="f000129">this wealth of color,</span>
   <span id="f000130">much less the strange social conditions of life on this sunlit Dakota prairie."</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000132">though visibly affected by the scene also,</span>
   <span id="f000133">couldn’t let his biscuit spoil or go without proper attention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">“Say,</span>
   <span id="f000135">ain’t y’ comin’ t’ grub?” he asked impatiently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">“Th a minute,” replied his friend,</span>
   <span id="f000137">taking a last wistful look at the scene.</span>
   <span id="f000138">“I want one more look at the landscape.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“Landscape be blessed!</span>
   <span id="f000140">If you’d been breakin’ all day-Come,</span>
   <span id="f000141">take that stool an’ draw up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000143">I’ll take the candle box.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“Not much.</span>
   <span id="f000145">I know what manners are,</span>
   <span id="f000146">if I am a bull driver.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">Seagraves took the three-legged and rather precarious-looking stool and drew up to the table,</span>
   <span id="f000148">which was a flat broad box nailed up against the side of the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000149">with two strips of board nailed at the outer corners for legs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“How’s that f’r a layout?” Rob inquired proudly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000152">you have spread yourself!</span>
   <span id="f000153">Biscuit and canned peaches and sardines and cheese.</span>
   <span id="f000154">why,</span>
   <span id="f000155">this is-is- prodigal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“It ain’t nothin’ else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">Rob was from one of the finest counties of Wisconsin,</span>
   <span id="f000158">over toward Milwaukee.</span>
   <span id="f000159">He was of German parentage,</span>
   <span id="f000160">a middle-sized,</span>
   <span id="f000161">cheery,</span>
   <span id="f000162">wide-awake,</span>
   <span id="f000163">good-looking young fellow-a typical claimholder.</span>
   <span id="f000164">He was always confident,</span>
   <span id="f000165">jovial,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and full of plans for the future.</span>
   <span id="f000167">He had dug his own well,</span>
   <span id="f000168">built his own shanty,</span>
   <span id="f000169">washed and mended his own clothing.</span>
   <span id="f000170">He could do anything,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and do it well.</span>
   <span id="f000172">He had a fine field of wheat,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and was finishing the plowing of his entire quarter section.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“This is what I call settin’ under a feller’s own vine an’ fig tree”-after Seagraves’s compliments-“an’ I like it.</span>
   <span id="f000175">I’m my own boss.</span>
   <span id="f000176">No man can say ’come here’ ’n’ ’go there’ to me.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I get up when I’m a min’ to,</span>
   <span id="f000178">an’ go t’ bed when I’m a min’ t’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“Some drawbacks,</span>
   <span id="f000180">I s’pose?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Mice,</span>
   <span id="f000183">f’r instance,</span>
   <span id="f000184">give me a devilish lot o’ trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000185">They get into my flour barrel,</span>
   <span id="f000186">eat up my cheese,</span>
   <span id="f000187">an’ fall into my well.</span>
   <span id="f000188">But it ain’t no use t’ swear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“The rats and the mlce they made such a strife He had to go to London to buy him a wife,”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">quoted Seagraves.</span>
   <span id="f000191">“Don’t blush.</span>
   <span id="f000192">I’ve probed your secret thought.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000194">to tell the honest truth,” said Rob a little sheepishly,</span>
   <span id="f000195">leaning across the table,</span>
   <span id="f000196">“I ain’t satisfied with my style o’ cookin’.</span>
   <span id="f000197">It’s good,</span>
   <span id="f000198">but a little too plain,</span>
   <span id="f000199">y’ know.</span>
   <span id="f000200">I’d like a change.</span>
   <span id="f000201">It ain’t much fun to break all day and then go to work an’ cook y’r own supper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000203">I should say not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“This fall I’m going back to Wisconsin.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Girls are thick as huckleberries back there,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and I’m goin’ t’ bring one back,</span>
   <span id="f000207">now you hear me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“Good!</span>
   <span id="f000209">That’s the plan,” laughed Seagraves,</span>
   <span id="f000210">amused at a certain timid and apprehensive look in his companion’s eye.</span>
   <span id="f000211">“Just think what a woman ’d do to put this shanty in shape;</span>
   <span id="f000212">and think how nice it would be to take her arm and saunter out after supper,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and look at the farm,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and plan and lay out gardens and paths,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and tend the chickens!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">Rob’s manly and self-reliant nature had the settler’s typical buoyancy and hopefulness,</span>
   <span id="f000217">as well as a certain power of analysis,</span>
   <span id="f000218">which enabled him now to say:</span>
   <span id="f000219">“The fact is,</span>
   <span id="f000220">we fellers holdin’ down claims out here ain’t fools clear to the rine.</span>
   <span id="f000221">We know a couple o’ things.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Now I didn’t leave Waupac County f’r fun.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Did y’ ever see Wanpac?</span>
   <span id="f000224">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000225">it’s one o’ the handsomest counties the sun ever shone on,</span>
   <span id="f000226">full o’ lakes and rivers and groves of timber.</span>
   <span id="f000227">I miss ’em all out here,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and I miss the boys an’ girls;</span>
   <span id="f000229">but they wa’n’t no chance there f’r a feller.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Land that was good was so blamed high you couldn’t touch it with a ten-foot pole from a balloon.</span>
   <span id="f000231">Rent was high,</span>
   <span id="f000232">if you wanted t’ rent,</span>
   <span id="f000233">an’ so a feller like me had t’ get out,</span>
   <span id="f000234">an’ now I’m out here,</span>
   <span id="f000235">I’m goin’ f make the most of it.</span>
   <span id="f000236">An other thing,” he went on,</span>
   <span id="f000237">after a pause-“we fellers work-in’ out back there got more ’n’ more like hands,</span>
   <span id="f000238">an’ less like human beings.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Y’know,</span>
   <span id="f000240">Waupac is a kind of a summer resort,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and the people that use’ t’ come in summers looked down on us cusses in the fields an’ shops.</span>
   <span id="f000242">I couldn’t stand it.</span>
   <span id="f000243">By God!” he said with a sudden im pulse of rage quite unlike him,</span>
   <span id="f000244">“I’d rather live on an ice-berg and claw crabs f’r a livin’ than have some feller passin’ me on the road an’ callin’ me fellah!’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">Seagraves knew what he meant and listened in astonishment at this outburst.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“I consider myself a sight better ’n any man who lives on somebody else’s hard work.</span>
   <span id="f000247">I’ve never had a cent I didn’t earn with them hands.” He held them up and broke into a grin.</span>
   <span id="f000248">“Beauties,</span>
   <span id="f000249">ain’t they?</span>
   <span id="f000250">But they never wore gloves that some other poor cuss earned.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">Seagraves thought them grand hands,</span>
   <span id="f000252">worthy to grasp the hand of any man or woman living.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000254">so I come West,</span>
   <span id="f000255">just like a thousand other fellers,</span>
   <span id="f000256">to get a start where the cussed European aristocracy hadn’t got a holt on the people.</span>
   <span id="f000257">I like it here-course I’d like the lakes an’ meadows of Waupac better-but I’m my own boss,</span>
   <span id="f000258">as I say,</span>
   <span id="f000259">an’ I’m goin’ to stay my own boss if I haf to live on crackers an’ wheat coffee to do it;</span>
   <span id="f000260">that’s the kind of a hairpin I am.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">In the pause which followed,</span>
   <span id="f000262">Seagraves,</span>
   <span id="f000263">plunged deep into thought by Rob’s words,</span>
   <span id="f000264">leaned his head on his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000265">This working farmer had voiced the modem idea.</span>
   <span id="f000266">It was an absolute overturn of all the ideas of nobility and special privilege born of the feudal past.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Rob had spoken upon impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000268">but that impulse appeared to Sea-graves to be right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“I’d like to use your idea for an editorial,</span>
   <span id="f000270">Rob,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“My ideas!” exclaimed the astounded host,</span>
   <span id="f000272">pausing in the act of filling his pipe.</span>
   <span id="f000273">“My ideas!</span>
   <span id="f000274">why,</span>
   <span id="f000275">I didn’t know I had any.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000277">you’ve given me some,</span>
   <span id="f000278">anyhow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">Seagraves felt that it was a wild,</span>
   <span id="f000280">grand upstirring of the modem democrat against the aristocratic,</span>
   <span id="f000281">against the idea of caste and the privilege of living on the labor of others.</span>
   <span id="f000282">This atom of humanity</span>
   <span id="f000283">(how infinitesimal this drop in the ocean of humanity!)</span>
   <span id="f000284">was feeling the name-less longing of expanding personality,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and had already pierced the conventions of society and declared as nil the laws of the land-laws that were survivals of hate and prejudice.</span>
   <span id="f000286">He had exposed also the native spring of the emigrant by uttering the feeling that it is better to be an equal among peasants than a servant before nobles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“So I have good reasons f’r liking the country,” Rob resumed in a quiet way.</span>
   <span id="f000288">“The soil is rich,</span>
   <span id="f000289">the climate good so far,</span>
   <span id="f000290">an’ if I have a couple o’ decent crops you’ll see a neat upright goin’ up here,</span>
   <span id="f000291">with a porch and a bay winder.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“And you’ll still be livin’ here alone,</span>
   <span id="f000293">frying leathery slapjacks an’ choppin’ taters and bacon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“I think I see myself,” drawled Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000295">“goin’ around all summer wearin’ the same shirt without washin’,</span>
   <span id="f000296">an’ wipin’ on the same towel four straight weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000297">an’ wearin’ holes in my socks,</span>
   <span id="f000298">an’ eatin’ musty gingersnaps,</span>
   <span id="f000299">moldy bacon,</span>
   <span id="f000300">an’ canned Boston beans f’r the rest o’ my endurin’ days!</span>
   <span id="f000301">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000302">yes;</span>
   <span id="f000303">I guess not!</span>
   <span id="f000304">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000305">see y’ later.</span>
   <span id="f000306">Must go water my bulls.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">As he went off down the slope,</span>
   <span id="f000308">Seagraves smiled to hear him sing:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000309">“I wish that some kindhearted girl<br /></span>
   <span id="f000310">Would pity on me take,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000311">And extricate me from the mess I’m in.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000312">The angel-how I’d bless her,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000313">li this her home she’d make,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000314">In my little old sod shanty on the plain!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000315">The boys nearly fell off their chairs in the Western House dining room,</span>
   <span id="f000316">a few days later,</span>
   <span id="f000317">at seeing Rob come into supper with a collar and necktie as the finishing touch of a remarkable outfit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“Hit him,</span>
   <span id="f000319">somebody!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“It’s a clean collar!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“He’s started f’r Congress!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“He’s going to get married,” put in Seagraves in a tone that brought conviction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“What!” screamed Jack Adams,</span>
   <span id="f000324">O’Neill,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and Wilson in one breath.</span>
   <span id="f000326">“That man?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“That man,” replied Seagraves,</span>
   <span id="f000328">amazed at Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000329">who coolly took his seat,</span>
   <span id="f000330">squared his elbows,</span>
   <span id="f000331">pressed his collar down at the back,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and called for the bacon and eggs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">The crowd stared at him in a dead silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Where’s he going to do it?” asked Jack Adarns.</span>
   <span id="f000335">“where’s he going to find a girl?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“Ask him,” said Seagraves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“I ain’t tellin’,” put in Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000338">with his mouth full of potato.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“You’re afraid of our competition.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">“That’s right;</span>
   <span id="f000341">our competition,</span>
   <span id="f000342">Jack;</span>
   <span id="f000343">not your competition.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000345">now,</span>
   <span id="f000346">Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000347">tell us where you found her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“I ain’t found her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“What!</span>
   <span id="f000350">And yet you’re goin’ away t’ get married!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“I’m goin’ t’ bring a wife back with me ten days fr’m date.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">“I see his scheme,” put in Jim Rivers.</span>
   <span id="f000353">“He’s goin’ back East somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000354">an’ he’s goin’ to propose to every girl he meets.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“Hold on!” interrupted Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000356">holding up his fork.</span>
   <span id="f000357">“Ain’t quite right.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Every good-lookin’ girl I meet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000360">I’ll be blanked!” exclaimed Jack impatientiy;</span>
   <span id="f000361">“that simply lets me out.</span>
   <span id="f000362">Any man with such a cheek ought to-”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">“Succeed,” interrupted Seagraves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“That’s what I say,” bawled Hank whiting,</span>
   <span id="f000365">the proprietor of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000366">“You fellers ain’t got any enterprise to yeh.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Why don’t you go to work an’ help settle the country like men?</span>
   <span id="f000368">’Cause y’ ain’t got no sand.</span>
   <span id="f000369">Girls are thicker’n huckleberries back East.</span>
   <span id="f000370">I say it’s a dum shame!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“Easy,</span>
   <span id="f000372">Henry,” said the elegant bank clerk,</span>
   <span id="f000373">Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000374">looking gravely about through his spectacles.</span>
   <span id="f000375">"I commend the courage and the resolution of Mr.&#160;Rodemaker.</span>
   <span id="f000376">I pray the lady may not</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“Mislike him for his complexion,</span>
   <span id="f000378">The shadowed livery of the burning sun.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“Shakespeare,” said Adams at a venture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">“Brother in adversity,</span>
   <span id="f000381">when do you embark?</span>
   <span id="f000382">Another 3ason on an untried sea~”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">“Hay!” said Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000384">winking at Seagraves.</span>
   <span id="f000385">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000386">I go tonight-night train.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“And return?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“Ten days from date.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">“I’ll wager a wedding supper he brings a blonde,” said Wilson in his clean-cut,</span>
   <span id="f000390">languid speech.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000392">come now,</span>
   <span id="f000393">Wilson;</span>
   <span id="f000394">that’s too thin!</span>
   <span id="f000395">We all know that rule about dark marryin’ light.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“I’ll wager she’ll be tall,” continued Wilson.</span>
   <span id="f000397">“I’ll wager you,</span>
   <span id="f000398">friend Rodemaker,</span>
   <span id="f000399">she’ll be blonde and tall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">The rest roared at Rob’s astonishment and contusion.</span>
   <span id="f000401">The absurdity of it grew,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and they went into spasms of laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000403">But Wilson remained impassive,</span>
   <span id="f000404">not the twitching of a muscle betraying that he saw anything to laugh at in the proposition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">Mrs.&#160;Whiting and the kitchen girls came in,</span>
   <span id="f000406">wondering at the merriment.</span>
   <span id="f000407">Rob began to get uneasy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“What is it?</span>
   <span id="f000409">What is it?” said Mrs.&#160;Whiting,</span>
   <span id="f000410">a jolly little matron.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">Rivers put the case.</span>
   <span id="f000412">“Rob’s on his way back to Wisconsin t’ get married,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and Wilson has offered to bet him that his wife will be a blonde and tall,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and Rob dassent bet!” And they roared again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000416">the idea!</span>
   <span id="f000417">The man’s crazy!” said Mrs.&#160;Whiting.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The crowd looked at each other.</span>
   <span id="f000419">This was hint enough;</span>
   <span id="f000420">they sobered,</span>
   <span id="f000421">nodding at each other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">“Aha!</span>
   <span id="f000423">I see;</span>
   <span id="f000424">I understand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“It’s the heat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“And the Boston beans.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">“Let up on him,</span>
   <span id="f000428">Wilson.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Don’t badger a poor irresponsible fellow.</span>
   <span id="f000430">I thought something was wrong when I saw the collar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000432">keep it up!” said Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000433">a little nettled by their evident intention to “have fun” with him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">“Soothe him-soo-o-o-o-the him!” said Wilson.</span>
   <span id="f000435">“Don’t be harsh.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">Rob rose from the table.</span>
   <span id="f000437">“Go to thunder!</span>
   <span id="f000438">You make me tired.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">“The fit is on him again!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">He rose disgustedly and went out.</span>
   <span id="f000441">They followed him in singie file.</span>
   <span id="f000442">The rest of the town “caught on.” Frank Graham heaved an apple at him and joined the procession.</span>
   <span id="f000443">Rob went into the store to buy some tobacco.</span>
   <span id="f000444">They followed and perched like crows on the counters till he went out;</span>
   <span id="f000445">then they followed him,</span>
   <span id="f000446">as before.</span>
   <span id="f000447">They watched him check his trunk;</span>
   <span id="f000448">they witnessed the purchase of the ticket.</span>
   <span id="f000449">The town had turned out by this time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">“Waupac!” announced the one nearest the victim.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“Waupac!” said the next man,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and the word was passed along the street up town.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“Make a note of it,” said Wilson:</span>
   <span id="f000454">“Waupa-a county where a man’s proposal for marriage is honored upon presentation.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Sight drafts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">Rivers struck up a song,</span>
   <span id="f000457">while Rob stood around,</span>
   <span id="f000458">patientiy bearing the jokes of the crowd:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">We’re lookin’ rather seedy now,</span>
   <span id="f000460">While holdin’ down our claims,</span>
   <span id="f000461">And our vittles are not always of the best,</span>
   <span id="f000462">And the mice play slyly round us As we lay down to sleep In our little old tarred shanties on the claim.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">“Yet we rather like the novelty Of livin’ in this way,</span>
   <span id="f000464">Though the bill of fare is often rather tame;</span>
   <span id="f000465">An’ we’re happy as a clam On the land of Uncle Sam In our little old tarred shanty on the claim.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">The train drew up at length,</span>
   <span id="f000467">to the immense relief of Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000468">whose stoical resiguation was beginning to weaken.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“Don’t y’ wish y’ had sand?” he yelled to the crowd as he plunged into the car,</span>
   <span id="f000470">thinking he was rid of them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">But no;</span>
   <span id="f000472">their last stroke was to follow him into the car,</span>
   <span id="f000473">nodding,</span>
   <span id="f000474">pointing to their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and whispering,</span>
   <span id="f000476">managing in the half-minute the train stood at the platform to set every person in the car staring at the crazy man.</span>
   <span id="f000477">Rob groaned and pulled his hat down over his eyes-an action which confirmed his tormentors’ words and made several ladies click their tongues in sympathy-“Tick!</span>
   <span id="f000478">tick!</span>
   <span id="f000479">poor fellow!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">All abo-o-o-a-rd!’ said the conductor,</span>
   <span id="f000481">grinning his appreciation at the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000482">and the train was off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000484">won’t we make him groan when he gets back!” said Barney,</span>
   <span id="f000485">the young lawyer who sang the shouting tenor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000486">“We’ll meet him with the timbrel and the harp.</span>
   <span id="f000487">Anybody want to wager?</span>
   <span id="f000488">I’ve got two to one on a short brunette,” said Wilson.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000489">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000490">“Follow it far enough and it may pass the bend in the river where the water laughs eternally over its shallows.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">A CORNFIELD in July is a hot place.</span>
   <span id="f000492">The soil is hot and dry;</span>
   <span id="f000493">the wind comes across the lazily murmuring leaves laden with a warm sickening smell drawn from the rapidly growing,</span>
   <span id="f000494">broad-flung banners of the corn.</span>
   <span id="f000495">The sun,</span>
   <span id="f000496">nearly vertical,</span>
   <span id="f000497">drops a flood of dazzing light and heat upon the field over which the cool shadows run,</span>
   <span id="f000498">only to make the heat seem the more intense.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">Julia Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000500">faint with fatigue,</span>
   <span id="f000501">was tolling back and forth between the corn rows,</span>
   <span id="f000502">holding the handles of the double-shovel corn plow while her little brother Otto rode the steaming horse.</span>
   <span id="f000503">Her heart was full of bitterness,</span>
   <span id="f000504">and her face flushed with heat,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and her muscles aching with fatigue.</span>
   <span id="f000506">The heat grew terrible.</span>
   <span id="f000507">The corn came to her shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and not a breath seemed to reach her,</span>
   <span id="f000509">while the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000510">nearing the noon mark,</span>
   <span id="f000511">lay pitilessly upon her shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000512">protected only by a calico dress.</span>
   <span id="f000513">The dust rose under her feet,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and as she was wet with perspiration it soiled her till,</span>
   <span id="f000515">with a woman’s instinctive cleanliness,</span>
   <span id="f000516">she shuddered.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Her head throbbed dangerously.</span>
   <span id="f000518">what matter to her that the king bird pitched jovially from the maples to catch a wandering bluebottle fly,</span>
   <span id="f000519">that the robin was feeding its young,</span>
   <span id="f000520">that the bobolink was singing?</span>
   <span id="f000521">All these things,</span>
   <span id="f000522">if she saw them,</span>
   <span id="f000523">only threw her bondage to labor into greater relief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">Across the field,</span>
   <span id="f000525">in another patch of corn,</span>
   <span id="f000526">she could see her father-a big,</span>
   <span id="f000527">gruff-voiced,</span>
   <span id="f000528">wide-bearded Norwegian-at work also with a plow.</span>
   <span id="f000529">The corn must be plowed,</span>
   <span id="f000530">and so she toiled on,</span>
   <span id="f000531">the tears dropping from the shadow of the ugly sunbonnet she wore.</span>
   <span id="f000532">Her shoes,</span>
   <span id="f000533">coarse and square-toed,</span>
   <span id="f000534">chafed her feet;</span>
   <span id="f000535">her hands,</span>
   <span id="f000536">large and strong,</span>
   <span id="f000537">were browned,</span>
   <span id="f000538">or more properly burned,</span>
   <span id="f000539">on the backs by the sun.</span>
   <span id="f000540">The horse’s harness “creak-cracked” as he swung steadily and patientiy forward,</span>
   <span id="f000541">the moisture pouring from his sides,</span>
   <span id="f000542">his nostrils distended.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">The field ran down to a road,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and on the other side of the road ran a river-a broad,</span>
   <span id="f000545">clear,</span>
   <span id="f000546">shallow expanse at that point,</span>
   <span id="f000547">and the eyes of the boy gazed longingly at the pond and the cool shadow each time that he turned at the fence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“Say,</span>
   <span id="f000549">Jule,</span>
   <span id="f000550">I’m goin’ in!</span>
   <span id="f000551">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000552">can’t I?</span>
   <span id="f000553">Come-say!” he pleaded as they stopped at the fence to let the horse breathe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">“I’ve let you go wade twice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“But that don’t do any good.</span>
   <span id="f000556">My legs is all smarty,</span>
   <span id="f000557">’cause ol’ Jack sweats so.” The boy turned around on the horse’s back and slid back to his rump.</span>
   <span id="f000558">“I can’t stand it!” he burst out,</span>
   <span id="f000559">sliding off and darting under the fence.</span>
   <span id="f000560">“Father can’t see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">The girl put her elbows on the fence and watched her little brother as be sped away to the pool,</span>
   <span id="f000562">throwing off his clothes as he ran,</span>
   <span id="f000563">whooping with uncontrollable delight.</span>
   <span id="f000564">Soon she could hear him splashing about in the water a short distance up the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and caught glimpses of his little shiny body and happy face.</span>
   <span id="f000566">How cool that water looked!</span>
   <span id="f000567">And the shadows there by the big basswood!</span>
   <span id="f000568">How that water would cool her blistered feet!</span>
   <span id="f000569">An impulse seized her,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and she squeezed between the rails of the fence and stood in the road looking up and down to see that the way was clear.</span>
   <span id="f000571">It was not a main-travelled road;</span>
   <span id="f000572">no one was likely to come;</span>
   <span id="f000573">why not?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">She hurriedly took off her shoes and stockings-how delicious the cool,</span>
   <span id="f000575">soft velvet of the grass!-and sitting down on the bank under the great basswood,</span>
   <span id="f000576">whose roots formed an abrupt bank,</span>
   <span id="f000577">she slid her poor blistered,</span>
   <span id="f000578">chafed feet into the water,</span>
   <span id="f000579">her bare head leaned against the huge tree trunk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">And now as she rested,</span>
   <span id="f000581">the beauty of the scene came to her.</span>
   <span id="f000582">Over her the wind moved the leaves.</span>
   <span id="f000583">A jay screamed far off,</span>
   <span id="f000584">as if answering the cries of the boy.</span>
   <span id="f000585">A kingfisher crossed and recrossed the stream with dipping sweep of his wings.</span>
   <span id="f000586">The river sang with its lips to the pebbles.</span>
   <span id="f000587">The vast clouds went by majestically,</span>
   <span id="f000588">far above the treetops,</span>
   <span id="f000589">and the snap and buzzing and ringing whir of July insects made a ceaseless,</span>
   <span id="f000590">slumberous undertone of song solvent of all else.</span>
   <span id="f000591">The tired girl forgot her work.</span>
   <span id="f000592">She began to dream.</span>
   <span id="f000593">This would not last always.</span>
   <span id="f000594">Some one would come to release her from such drudgery.</span>
   <span id="f000595">This was her constant,</span>
   <span id="f000596">tenderest,</span>
   <span id="f000597">and most secret dream.</span>
   <span id="f000598">He would be a Yankee,</span>
   <span id="f000599">not a Norwegian;</span>
   <span id="f000600">the Yankees didn’t ask their wives to work in the field.</span>
   <span id="f000601">He would have a home.</span>
   <span id="f000602">Perhaps he’d live in town-perhaps a merchant!</span>
   <span id="f000603">And then she thought of the drug clerk in Rock River who had looked at her- A voice broke in on her dream,</span>
   <span id="f000604">a fresh,</span>
   <span id="f000605">manly voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000607">by jinks!</span>
   <span id="f000608">if it ain’t Julia!</span>
   <span id="f000609">Just the one I wanted to see!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">The girl turned,</span>
   <span id="f000611">saw a pleasant-faced young fellow in a derby hat and a fifteen-dollar suit of diagonals.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">“Rod Rodemaker!</span>
   <span id="f000613">How come-”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">She remembered her situation,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and flushed,</span>
   <span id="f000616">looked down at the water,</span>
   <span id="f000617">and remained perfectly still.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“Ain’t ye goin’ to shake hands?</span>
   <span id="f000619">Y’ don’t seem very glad t’ see me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">She began to grow angry.</span>
   <span id="f000621">“If you had any eyes you’d see!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">Rob looked over the edge of the bank,</span>
   <span id="f000623">whistled,</span>
   <span id="f000624">turned away.</span>
   <span id="f000625">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000626">I see!</span>
   <span id="f000627">Excuse me!</span>
   <span id="f000628">Don’t blame yeh a bit,</span>
   <span id="f000629">though.</span>
   <span id="f000630">Good weather f’r corn,” he went on’ looking up at the trees.</span>
   <span id="f000631">’Corn seems to be pretty well for-ward,“ he continued in a louder voice as he walked away,</span>
   <span id="f000632">still gazing into the air.</span>
   <span id="f000633">”Crops is looking first-class in Boomtown.</span>
   <span id="f000634">Hello!</span>
   <span id="f000635">This Otto?</span>
   <span id="f000636">H’yare y’ little scamp!</span>
   <span id="f000637">Get onto that horse agin.</span>
   <span id="f000638">Quick,</span>
   <span id="f000639">’r I’ll take y’r skin off an,</span>
   <span id="f000640">hang it on the fence.</span>
   <span id="f000641">what y’ been doing?"</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000642">“Ben in swimmm’.</span>
   <span id="f000643">Jimminy,</span>
   <span id="f000644">ain’t it fun!</span>
   <span id="f000645">when ’d y’ get back?” said the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000646">grinning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">“Never you mind,” replied Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000648">leaping the fence by laying his left hand on the top rail.</span>
   <span id="f000649">“Get onto that horse.” He tossed the boy up on the horse,</span>
   <span id="f000650">hung his coat on the fence.</span>
   <span id="f000651">“I s’pose the ol’ man makes her plow same as usual?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">“Yup,” said Otto.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">“Dod ding a man that’ll do that!</span>
   <span id="f000654">I don’t mind if it’s necessary,</span>
   <span id="f000655">but it ain’t necessary in his case.” He continued to mutter in this way as he went across to the other side of the field.</span>
   <span id="f000656">As they turned to come back,</span>
   <span id="f000657">Rob went up and looked at the horse’s mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000658">“Gettin’ purty near of age.</span>
   <span id="f000659">Say,</span>
   <span id="f000660">who’s sparkin’ Julia now-anybody?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000661">“Nobody ’cept some ol’ Norwegians.</span>
   <span id="f000662">She won’t have them.</span>
   <span id="f000663">Por wants her to,</span>
   <span id="f000664">but she won’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">“Good f’r her.</span>
   <span id="f000666">Nobody comes t’ see her Sunday nights,</span>
   <span id="f000667">eh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">“Nope,</span>
   <span id="f000669">only ’Tias Anderson an’ Ole Hoover;</span>
   <span id="f000670">but she goes off an’ leaves ’em.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">“Chk!” said Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000672">starting old Jack across the field.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">It was almost noon,</span>
   <span id="f000674">and Jack moved reluctantly.</span>
   <span id="f000675">He knew the time of day as well as the boy.</span>
   <span id="f000676">He made this round after distinct protest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">In the meantime Julia,</span>
   <span id="f000678">putting on her shoes and stockings,</span>
   <span id="f000679">went to the fence and watched the man’s shining white shirt as he moved across the cornfield.</span>
   <span id="f000680">There had never been any special tenderness between them,</span>
   <span id="f000681">but she had always liked him.</span>
   <span id="f000682">They had been at school together.</span>
   <span id="f000683">She wondered why he had come back at this time of the year,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and wondered how long he would stay.</span>
   <span id="f000685">How long had he stood looking at her?</span>
   <span id="f000686">She flushed again at the thought of it.</span>
   <span id="f000687">But he wasn’t to blame;</span>
   <span id="f000688">it was a public road.</span>
   <span id="f000689">She might have known better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">She stood under a little popple tree,</span>
   <span id="f000691">whose leaves shook musically at every zephyr,</span>
   <span id="f000692">and her eyes through half-shut lids roved over the sea of deep-green glossy leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000693">dappled here and there by cloud-shadows,</span>
   <span id="f000694">stirred here and there like water by the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000695">and out of it all a longing to be free from such toil rose like a breath,</span>
   <span id="f000696">filling her throat,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and quickening the motion of her heart.</span>
   <span id="f000698">Must this go on forever,</span>
   <span id="f000699">this life of heat and dust and labor?</span>
   <span id="f000700">what did it all mean?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">The girl laid her chin on her strong red wrists,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and looked up into the blue spaces between the vast clouds – aerial mountains dissolving in a shoreless azure sea.</span>
   <span id="f000703">How cool and sweet and restful they looked!</span>
   <span id="f000704">li she might only lie out on the billowy,</span>
   <span id="f000705">snow-white,</span>
   <span id="f000706">sunlit edge!</span>
   <span id="f000707">The voices of the driver and the plowman recalled her,</span>
   <span id="f000708">and she fixed her eyes again upon the slowly nodding head of the patient horse,</span>
   <span id="f000709">on the boy turned half about on the horse,</span>
   <span id="f000710">talking to the white-sleeved man,</span>
   <span id="f000711">whose derby hat bobbed up and down quite curiously,</span>
   <span id="f000712">like the horse’s head.</span>
   <span id="f000713">Would she ask him to dinner?</span>
   <span id="f000714">what would her people say?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Phew!</span>
   <span id="f000716">it’s hot!” was the greeting the young fellow gave as he came up.</span>
   <span id="f000717">He smiled in a frank,</span>
   <span id="f000718">boyish way as he hung his hat on the top of a stake and looked up at her.</span>
   <span id="f000719">“D’ y’ know,</span>
   <span id="f000720">I kind o’ enjoy getting at it again.</span>
   <span id="f000721">Fact.</span>
   <span id="f000722">It ain’t no work for a girl,</span>
   <span id="f000723">though,” he added.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">“When ’d you get back?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000725">the flush not yet out of her face.</span>
   <span id="f000726">Rob was looking at her thick,</span>
   <span id="f000727">fine hair and full Scandinavian face,</span>
   <span id="f000728">rich as a rose in color,</span>
   <span id="f000729">and did not reply for a few seconds.</span>
   <span id="f000730">She stood with her hideous sun bonnet pushed back on her shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000731">A kingbird was chattering overhead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">“Oh’ a few days ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">“How long y’ goin’ t’ stay?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000734">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000735">I d’ know.</span>
   <span id="f000736">A week,</span>
   <span id="f000737">mebbe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000738">A far-off halloo came pulsing across the shimmering air.</span>
   <span id="f000739">The boy screamed “Dinner!” and waved his hat with an answering whoop,</span>
   <span id="f000740">then flopped off the horse like a turtle off a stone into water.</span>
   <span id="f000741">He had the horse unhooked in an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000742">and had flung his toes up over the horse’s back,</span>
   <span id="f000743">in act to climb on,</span>
   <span id="f000744">when Rob said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">“H’yare,</span>
   <span id="f000746">young feller!</span>
   <span id="f000747">wa!t a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000748">Tired?” he asked the girl with a tone that was more than kindly;</span>
   <span id="f000749">it was almost tender.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“Yes,” she replied in a low voice.</span>
   <span id="f000751">“My shoes hurt me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000753">here y’ go,” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000754">taking his stand by the horse and holding out his hand like a step.</span>
   <span id="f000755">She colored and smiled a little as she lifted her foot into his huge,</span>
   <span id="f000756">hard,</span>
   <span id="f000757">sunburned hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000758">“Oop-a-daisy!” he called.</span>
   <span id="f000759">She gave a spring and sat the horse like one at home there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000760">Rob had a deliciously unconscious,</span>
   <span id="f000761">abstracted,</span>
   <span id="f000762">businesslike air.</span>
   <span id="f000763">He really left her nothing to do but enjoy his company,</span>
   <span id="f000764">while he went ahead and did precisely as he pleased.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">“We don’t raise much corn out there,</span>
   <span id="f000766">an’ so I kind o’ like to see it once more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">“I wish I didn’t have to see another hill of corn as long as I live!” replied the girl bitterly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">“Don’t know as I blame yeh a bit.</span>
   <span id="f000769">But,</span>
   <span id="f000770">all the same,</span>
   <span id="f000771">I’m glad you was working in it today,” he thought to hiniseif as he walked beside her horse toward the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000772">“Will you stop to dinner?” she inquired bluntly,</span>
   <span id="f000773">almost surmy.</span>
   <span id="f000774">It was evident that there were reasons why she didn’t mean to press.</span>
   <span id="f000775">hirn to’.</span>
   <span id="f000776">do so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000777">“You bet I will,” he replied;</span>
   <span id="f000778">“that is,</span>
   <span id="f000779">if you want I should.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000780">“You know how we live,” she replied evasively.</span>
   <span id="f000781">“I’ you c’n stand it,</span>
   <span id="f000782">why-” She broke off abruptly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000783">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000784">he remembered how they lived in that big,</span>
   <span id="f000785">square,</span>
   <span id="f000786">dirty,</span>
   <span id="f000787">white frame house.</span>
   <span id="f000788">It had been- three or four years since he had been ill it,</span>
   <span id="f000789">but the smell of the cabbage and onions,</span>
   <span id="f000790">the penetrating,</span>
   <span id="f000791">peculiar mixture of odors,</span>
   <span id="f000792">assailed his memory as something unforgettable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000793">“I guess I’ll stop,” he said as she hesitated.</span>
   <span id="f000794">She said no more,</span>
   <span id="f000795">but tried to act as if she were not in any way responsible for what came afterward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“I guess I c’n stand fr one meal what you stand all the while,” he added.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">As she left them at the well and went to the house,</span>
   <span id="f000798">he saw her limp painfully,</span>
   <span id="f000799">and the memory of her face so close to his 1ips as he helped her down from the horse gave him pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f000800">at the same time that he was touched by its tired and gloomy look.</span>
   <span id="f000801">Mrs.&#160;Peterson came to the door of the kitchen,</span>
   <span id="f000802">looking just the same as ever.</span>
   <span id="f000803">Broadfaced,</span>
   <span id="f000804">unwieldly,</span>
   <span id="f000805">flabby,</span>
   <span id="f000806">apparently wearing the same dress he remembered to have seen her in years before a dirty drab-colored thing-she looked as shapeless as a sack of wool.</span>
   <span id="f000807">Her English was limited to “How de do,</span>
   <span id="f000808">Rob?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">He washed at the pump,</span>
   <span id="f000810">while the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000811">in the attempt to be hospitable,</span>
   <span id="f000812">held the clean towel for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">“You’re purty well used up,</span>
   <span id="f000814">eh?” he said to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000816">it’s awful hot out there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">“Can’t you lay off this afternoon?</span>
   <span id="f000818">It ain’t right”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000819">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000820">He won’t listen to that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000822">let me take your place.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000823">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000824">there ain’t any use o’ that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000825">Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000826">a brawny wide-bearded Norwegian,</span>
   <span id="f000827">came up at this moment and spoke to Rob in a sullen,</span>
   <span id="f000828">gruff way</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">“He ain’t very glad to see me,” said Rob,</span>
   <span id="f000830">winking at Julia.</span>
   <span id="f000831">“He ain’t b’ilin’ over with enthusiasm;</span>
   <span id="f000832">but I c’n stand it,</span>
   <span id="f000833">for your sake,” he added with amazing assurance;</span>
   <span id="f000834">but the girl had turned away,</span>
   <span id="f000835">and it was wasted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">At the table he ate heartily of the “bean swaagen,” which filled a large wooden bowl in the center of the table,</span>
   <span id="f000837">and which was ladled into smaller wooden bowls at each plate.</span>
   <span id="f000838">Julia had tried hard to convert her mother to Yankee ways,</span>
   <span id="f000839">and had at last given it up in despair.</span>
   <span id="f000840">Rob kept on safe subjects,</span>
   <span id="f000841">mainly asking questions about the crops of Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000842">and when addressing the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000843">inquired of the schoolmates.</span>
   <span id="f000844">By skillful questioning,</span>
   <span id="f000845">he kept the subject of marriage uppermost,</span>
   <span id="f000846">and seemingly was getting an inventory of the girls not yet married or engaged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000847">It was embarrassing for the girl.</span>
   <span id="f000848">She was all too well aware of the difference between her home and the home of her schoolmates and friends,</span>
   <span id="f000849">She.</span>
   <span id="f000850">knew that it was not pleasant for her “Yankee” friends to come to visit her when they could not feel sure of a welcome from the tireless,</span>
   <span id="f000851">silent,</span>
   <span id="f000852">and grim-visaged old Norse,</span>
   <span id="f000853">if,</span>
   <span id="f000854">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000855">they could escape insult.</span>
   <span id="f000856">Julia ate her food mechanically,</span>
   <span id="f000857">and it could hardly be said that she enjoyed the brisk talk of the young man,</span>
   <span id="f000858">his eyes were upon her so constantly and his smile so obviously addressed to her,</span>
   <span id="f000859">She rose as soon as possible and,</span>
   <span id="f000860">going outside,</span>
   <span id="f000861">took a seat on a chair under the trees in the yard.</span>
   <span id="f000862">She was not a coarse or dull girl.</span>
   <span id="f000863">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000864">she had developed so rapidly by contact with the young people of the neighborhood that she no longer found pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f000865">in her own home.</span>
   <span id="f000866">She didn’t believe in keeping up the old-fashioned Norwegian customs,</span>
   <span id="f000867">and her life with her mother was not one to breed love or confidence.</span>
   <span id="f000868">She was more like a hired hand.</span>
   <span id="f000869">The love of the mother for her “Yulyie” was sincere though rough and inarticulate,</span>
   <span id="f000870">and it was her jealousy of the young “Yankees” that widened the chasm between the girl and herself – an inevitable result.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000871">Rob followed the girl out into the yard,</span>
   <span id="f000872">and threw himself on the grass at her feet,</span>
   <span id="f000873">perfectly unconscious of the fact that this attitude was exceedingly graceful and becoming to them both.</span>
   <span id="f000874">He did it because he wanted to talk to her,</span>
   <span id="f000875">and the grass was cool and easy;</span>
   <span id="f000876">there wasn’t any other chair,</span>
   <span id="f000877">anyway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000878">“Do they keep up the ly-ceum and the sociables same as ever?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000879">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000880">The others go a good ’eal,</span>
   <span id="f000881">but I don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000882">We’re gettin’ such a stock round us,</span>
   <span id="f000883">and father thinks he needs me s’ much,</span>
   <span id="f000884">I don’t get out often.</span>
   <span id="f000885">Fm gettin’ sick of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">“I sh’d think y’ would,” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000887">his eyes on her face,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">“I c’d stand the churnin’ and housework,</span>
   <span id="f000889">but when it comes it comes t’ workin’ outdoors in the dirt an’ hot sun,</span>
   <span id="f000890">gettin’ all sunburned and chapped up,</span>
   <span id="f000891">it’s another thing.</span>
   <span id="f000892">An’ then it seems as if he gets stingier ’n’ stingier every year.</span>
   <span id="f000893">I ain’t had a new dress in – I d’-know-how-long.</span>
   <span id="f000894">He says it’s all nonsense,</span>
   <span id="f000895">an’ Mother’s just about as bad.</span>
   <span id="f000896">She don’t want a new dress,</span>
   <span id="f000897">an’ so she thinks I don’t.” The girl was feeling the influence of a sympathetic listener and was making up for her long silence.</span>
   <span id="f000898">“I’ve tried t’ go out t’ work,</span>
   <span id="f000899">but they won’t let me.</span>
   <span id="f000900">They’d have t’ pay a hand twenty dollars a month f’r the work I do,</span>
   <span id="f000901">an’ they like cheap help;</span>
   <span id="f000902">but I’m not goin’ t’ stand it much longer,</span>
   <span id="f000903">I can tell you that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000904">Rob thought she was yery handsome as she sat there with her eyes fixed on the horizon,</span>
   <span id="f000905">while these rebellious thoughts found utterance in her quivering,</span>
   <span id="f000906">passionate voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000907">“Yulie!</span>
   <span id="f000908">Kom heat!” roared the old man from the well.</span>
   <span id="f000909">A frown of anger and pain came into her face.</span>
   <span id="f000910">She looked at Rob.</span>
   <span id="f000911">“That means more work.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000912">“Say!</span>
   <span id="f000913">let me go out in your place.</span>
   <span id="f000914">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000915">now;</span>
   <span id="f000916">what’s the use-”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000918">it wouldn’t do no good.</span>
   <span id="f000919">It ain’t t’day s’ much;</span>
   <span id="f000920">it’s every day,</span>
   <span id="f000921">and-”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000922">“Yulie!” called Peterson again with a string of impatient Norwegian.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000923">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000924">all right,</span>
   <span id="f000925">only I’d like to”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000926">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000927">goodbye,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000928">with a little touch of feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000929">“When d’ye go back?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000930">“I don’t know.</span>
   <span id="f000931">I’ll see y’ again before I go.</span>
   <span id="f000932">Goodbye.” He stood watching her slow,</span>
   <span id="f000933">painful pace till she reached the well,</span>
   <span id="f000934">where Otto was standing with the horse.</span>
   <span id="f000935">He stood watching them as they moved out into the road and turned down toward the field.</span>
   <span id="f000936">He felt that she had sent him away;</span>
   <span id="f000937">but still there was a look in her eyes which was not altogether –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000938">He gave it up in despair at last.</span>
   <span id="f000939">He was not good at analyses of this nature;</span>
   <span id="f000940">he was used to plain,</span>
   <span id="f000941">blunt expressions.</span>
   <span id="f000942">There was a woman’s subtlety here quite beyond his reach.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000943">He sauntered slowly off up the road after his talk with Julia.</span>
   <span id="f000944">His head was low on his breast;</span>
   <span id="f000945">he was thinking as one who is about to take a decided and important step.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000946">He stopped at length,</span>
   <span id="f000947">and turning,</span>
   <span id="f000948">watched the girl moving along in the deeps of the corn.</span>
   <span id="f000949">Hardly a leaf was stirring;</span>
   <span id="f000950">the untempered sunlight fell in a burning flood upon the field;</span>
   <span id="f000951">the grasshoppers rose,</span>
   <span id="f000952">snapped,</span>
   <span id="f000953">buzzed,</span>
   <span id="f000954">and fell;</span>
   <span id="f000955">the locust uttered its dry,</span>
   <span id="f000956">heat-intensifving cry.</span>
   <span id="f000957">The man lifted his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000958">“It’s a d-n shame!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000959">beginning rapidly to retrace his steps.</span>
   <span id="f000960">He stood leaning on the fence,</span>
   <span id="f000961">awaiting the girl’s coming very much as she had waited his on the round he had made before dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000962">He grew impatient at the slow gait of the horse and drummed on their rail while he whistled.</span>
   <span id="f000963">Then he took off his hat and dusted it nervously.</span>
   <span id="f000964">As the horse got a little nearer he wiped his face carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000965">pushed his hat back on his head,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and climbed over the fence,</span>
   <span id="f000967">where he stood with elbows on the middle rail as the girl and boy and horse came to the end of the furrow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000968">“Hot,</span>
   <span id="f000969">ain’t it?” he said as she looked up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000970">“Jimminy Peters,</span>
   <span id="f000971">it’s awful!” puffed the boy.</span>
   <span id="f000972">The girl did not reply trn she swung the plow about after the horse,</span>
   <span id="f000973">and set it upright into the next row.</span>
   <span id="f000974">Her powerful body had a superb swaying motion at the waist as she did this-a motion which affected Rob vaguely but massively.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000975">“I thought you’d gone,” she said gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000976">pushing hack her bonnet trn he could see her face dewed with sweat and pink as a rose.</span>
   <span id="f000977">She had the high cheekbones of her race,</span>
   <span id="f000978">but she had also their exquisite fairess of color.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000979">“Say,</span>
   <span id="f000980">Otto,” asked Rob alluringiy,</span>
   <span id="f000981">“wan’ to go swimming?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000982">“You bet!” replied Otto.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000983">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000984">I’ll go a round if-”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000985">The boy dropped off the horse,</span>
   <span id="f000986">not waiting to hear any more.</span>
   <span id="f000987">Rob grinned;</span>
   <span id="f000988">but the girl dropped her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000989">then looked away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000990">“Got rid o’ him mighty quick.</span>
   <span id="f000991">Say,</span>
   <span id="f000992">Julyie,</span>
   <span id="f000993">I hate like thunder t’ see you out here;</span>
   <span id="f000994">it ain’t right.</span>
   <span id="f000995">I wish you’d – I wish – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000996">She could not look at him now,</span>
   <span id="f000997">and her bosom rose and fell with a motion that was not due to fatigue.</span>
   <span id="f000998">Her moist hair matted around her forehead gave her a boyish look.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000999">Rob nervously tried again,</span>
   <span id="f001000">tearing splinters from the fence.</span>
   <span id="f001001">“Say,</span>
   <span id="f001002">now,</span>
   <span id="f001003">I’ll tell yeh what I came back here fer t’ git married;</span>
   <span id="f001004">and if you’re willin’,</span>
   <span id="f001005">I’ll do it tonight.</span>
   <span id="f001006">Come,</span>
   <span id="f001007">now,</span>
   <span id="f001008">whaddy y’ say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001009">“What ’ve I got t’ do ’bout it?” she finally asked,</span>
   <span id="f001010">the color flooding her face and a faint smile coming to her lips.</span>
   <span id="f001011">“Go ahead.</span>
   <span id="f001012">I ain’t got anything-”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">Rob put a splinter in his mouth and faced her.</span>
   <span id="f001014">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001015">looky here,</span>
   <span id="f001016">now,</span>
   <span id="f001017">Julyie!</span>
   <span id="f001018">you know what I mean.</span>
   <span id="f001019">I’ve got a good claim out near Boomtown-a rattlin’ good claim;</span>
   <span id="f001020">a shanty on it fourteen by sixteen-no tarred paper about it;</span>
   <span id="f001021">and a suller to keep butter in;</span>
   <span id="f001022">and a hundred acres wheat just about ready to turn now.</span>
   <span id="f001023">I need a wife.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001024">Here he straightened up,</span>
   <span id="f001025">threw away the splinter,</span>
   <span id="f001026">and took off his hat.</span>
   <span id="f001027">He was a very pleasant figure as the girl stole a look at him.</span>
   <span id="f001028">His black laughing eyes were especially earnest just now.</span>
   <span id="f001029">His voice had a touch of pleading.</span>
   <span id="f001030">The popple tree over their heads murmured applause at his eloquence,</span>
   <span id="f001031">then hushed to listen.</span>
   <span id="f001032">A cloud dropped a silent shadow down upon them,</span>
   <span id="f001033">and it sent a little thrill of fear through Rob,</span>
   <span id="f001034">as if it were an omen of failure.</span>
   <span id="f001035">As the girl remained silent,</span>
   <span id="f001036">looking away,</span>
   <span id="f001037">he began,</span>
   <span id="f001038">man-fashion,</span>
   <span id="f001039">to desire her more and more as he feared to lose her.</span>
   <span id="f001040">He put his hat on the post again and took out his jackknife.</span>
   <span id="f001041">Her calico dress draped her supple and powerful figure simply but naturally.</span>
   <span id="f001042">The stoop in her shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f001043">given by labor,</span>
   <span id="f001044">disappeared as she partly leaned upon the fence.</span>
   <span id="f001045">The curves of her muscular arms showed through her sleeve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001046">“It’s all-fired lonesome fr me out there on that claim,</span>
   <span id="f001047">and it ain’t no picnic f’r you here.</span>
   <span id="f001048">Now,</span>
   <span id="f001049">if you’ll come out there with me,</span>
   <span id="f001050">you needn’t do anything but cook f’r me,</span>
   <span id="f001051">and after harvest we can git a good layout o’ furniture,</span>
   <span id="f001052">an’ I’ll lath and plaster the house,</span>
   <span id="f001053">an’ put a little hell [ell] in the rear.” He smiled,</span>
   <span id="f001054">and so did she.</span>
   <span id="f001055">He felt encouraged to say:</span>
   <span id="f001056">“An’ there we be,</span>
   <span id="f001057">as snug as y’ please.</span>
   <span id="f001058">We’re close t’ Boomtown,</span>
   <span id="f001059">an’ we can go down there to church sociables an’ things,</span>
   <span id="f001060">and they’re a jolly lot there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001061">The girl was still silent,</span>
   <span id="f001062">but the man’s simple enthusiasm came to her charged with passion and a sort of romance such as her hard life had known little of.</span>
   <span id="f001063">There was something enticing about this trip to the West.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001064">“What ’li my folks say?” she said at last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001065">A virtual surrender,</span>
   <span id="f001066">but Rob was not acute enough to see it.</span>
   <span id="f001067">He pressed on eagerly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001068">“I don’t care.</span>
   <span id="f001069">Do you?</span>
   <span id="f001070">They’ll jest keep y’ plowin’ corn and milkin’ cows till the day of judgment.</span>
   <span id="f001071">Come,</span>
   <span id="f001072">Julyie,</span>
   <span id="f001073">I ain’t got no time to fool away.</span>
   <span id="f001074">I’ve got t’ get back t’ that grain.</span>
   <span id="f001075">It’s a whoopin’ old crop,</span>
   <span id="f001076">sure’s y’r born,</span>
   <span id="f001077">an’ that means som’pin’ purty scrumptious in furniture this fall.</span>
   <span id="f001078">Come,</span>
   <span id="f001079">now.” He approached her and laid his hand on her shoulder very much as he would have touched Albert Seagraves or any other comrade.</span>
   <span id="f001080">“Whady y’ say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001081">She neither started,</span>
   <span id="f001082">nor shrunk,</span>
   <span id="f001083">nor looked at him.</span>
   <span id="f001084">She simply moved a step away.</span>
   <span id="f001085">“They’d never let me ge,” she replied bitterly.</span>
   <span id="f001086">“I’m too cheap a hand.</span>
   <span id="f001087">I do a man’s work an’ get no pay at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001088">“You’ll have half o’ all I c’n make,” he put in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001089">“How long c’n you wait?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f001090">looking down at her dress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001091">“Just two minutes,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f001092">pulling out his watch.</span>
   <span id="f001093">“It ain’t no use t’ wait.</span>
   <span id="f001094">The old man ’li be jest as mad a week from now as he is today.</span>
   <span id="f001095">why not go now?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001096">“I’m of age day after tomorrow,” she mused,</span>
   <span id="f001097">wavering,</span>
   <span id="f001098">calculating.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001099">“You c’n be of age tonight if you’ll jest call on old Square Hatfield with me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001100">“All right,</span>
   <span id="f001101">Rob,” the girl said,</span>
   <span id="f001102">turning and holding out her hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001103">“That’s the talk!” he exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f001104">seizing it.</span>
   <span id="f001105">“An’ now a kiss,</span>
   <span id="f001106">to bind the bargain,</span>
   <span id="f001107">as the fellah says.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001108">“I guess we c’n get along without that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001109">“No,</span>
   <span id="f001110">we can’t.</span>
   <span id="f001111">It won’t seem like an engagement without it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001112">“It ain’t goin’ to seem much like one anyway,” she answered with a sudden realization of how far from her dreams of courtship this reality was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001113">“Say,</span>
   <span id="f001114">now,</span>
   <span id="f001115">Julyie,</span>
   <span id="f001116">that ain’t fair;</span>
   <span id="f001117">it ain’t treatin’ me right.</span>
   <span id="f001118">You don’t seem to understand that I like you,</span>
   <span id="f001119">but I do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001120">Rob was carried quite out of himself by the time,</span>
   <span id="f001121">the place,</span>
   <span id="f001122">and the girl.</span>
   <span id="f001123">He had said a very moving thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001124">The tears sprang involuntarily to the girl’s eyes.</span>
   <span id="f001125">“Do you mean it?</span>
   <span id="f001126">If y’ do,</span>
   <span id="f001127">you may.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001128">She was trembling with emotion for the first time.</span>
   <span id="f001129">The sincerity of the man’s voice had gone deep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001130">He put his arm around her almost timidly and kissed her on the cheek,</span>
   <span id="f001131">a great love for her springing up in his heart.</span>
   <span id="f001132">“That setties it,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f001133">“Don’t cry,</span>
   <span id="f001134">Jalyie.</span>
   <span id="f001135">You’ll never be sorry for it.</span>
   <span id="f001136">Don’t cry.</span>
   <span id="f001137">It kind o’ hurts me to see it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001138">He didn’t understand her feelings.</span>
   <span id="f001139">He was only aware that she was crying,</span>
   <span id="f001140">and tried in a bungling way to soothe her.</span>
   <span id="f001141">But now that she had given way,</span>
   <span id="f001142">she sat down in the grass and wept bitterly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001143">“Yulyie!” yelled the old Norwegian,</span>
   <span id="f001144">like a distant fog-horn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001145">The girl sprang up;</span>
   <span id="f001146">the habit of obedience was strong.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001147">“No;</span>
   <span id="f001148">you set right there,</span>
   <span id="f001149">and I’ll go round,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f001150">“Otto!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001151">The boy came scrambling out of the wood half dressed.</span>
   <span id="f001152">Rob tossed him upon the horse,</span>
   <span id="f001153">snatched Julia’s sun-bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f001154">put his own hat on her head,</span>
   <span id="f001155">and moved off down the corn rows,</span>
   <span id="f001156">leaving the girl smiling throgh her tears as he whistled and chirped to the horse.</span>
   <span id="f001157">Farmer Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f001158">seeing the familiar sunbonnet above the corn rows,</span>
   <span id="f001159">went back to his work,</span>
   <span id="f001160">with a sentence of Norwegian trailing after him like the tail of a kite-something about lazy girls who didn’t earn the crust of their bread,</span>
   <span id="f001161">etc.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001162">Rob was wild with delight.</span>
   <span id="f001163">“Git up there Jack!</span>
   <span id="f001164">Hay,</span>
   <span id="f001165">you old corncrib!</span>
   <span id="f001166">Say,</span>
   <span id="f001167">Otto,</span>
   <span id="f001168">can you keep your mouth shet if it puts money in your pocket?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001169">“Jest try me ’n’ see,” said the keen-eyed little scamp.</span>
   <span id="f001170">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001171">you keep quiet about my being here this alter-noon,</span>
   <span id="f001172">and I’ll put a dollar on y’r tongue – hay?</span>
   <span id="f001173">– what?</span>
   <span id="f001174">– understand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001175">“Show me y’r dollar,” said the boy,</span>
   <span id="f001176">turning about and showing his tongue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001177">“All right.</span>
   <span id="f001178">Begin to practice now by not talkin’ to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001179">Rob went over the whole situation on his way back,</span>
   <span id="f001180">and when he got in sight of the girl his plan was made.</span>
   <span id="f001181">She stood waiting for him with a new look on her face.</span>
   <span id="f001182">Her sullenness had given way to a peculiar eagerness and anxiety to believe in him.</span>
   <span id="f001183">She was already living that free life in a far-off wonderful country.</span>
   <span id="f001184">No more would her stern father and sullen mother force her to tasks which she hated.</span>
   <span id="f001185">She’d be a member of a new firm.</span>
   <span id="f001186">She’d work,</span>
   <span id="f001187">of course,</span>
   <span id="f001188">but it would be because she wanted to,</span>
   <span id="f001189">and not because she was forced to.</span>
   <span id="f001190">The independence and the love promised grew more and more attractive.</span>
   <span id="f001191">She laughed back with a softer light in her eyes when she saw the smiling face of Rob looking at her from her sun-bonnet</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001192">“Now you mustn’t do any more o’ this,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f001193">“You go back to the house an’ tell y’r mother you’re too lame to plow any more today,</span>
   <span id="f001194">and it’s too late,</span>
   <span id="f001195">anyhow.</span>
   <span id="f001196">To-night!” he whispered quickiy.</span>
   <span id="f001197">“Eleven!</span>
   <span id="f001198">Here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001199">The girl’s heart leaped with fear.</span>
   <span id="f001200">“I’m afraid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001201">“Not of me,</span>
   <span id="f001202">are yeh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001203">“No,</span>
   <span id="f001204">I’m not afraid of you,</span>
   <span id="f001205">Rob.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001206">“I’m glad o’ that.</span>
   <span id="f001207">I-I want you to-to like me,</span>
   <span id="f001208">Julyie;</span>
   <span id="f001209">won’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001210">“I’ll try,” she answered with a smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001211">“Tonight,</span>
   <span id="f001212">then,” he said as she moved away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001213">“Tonight.</span>
   <span id="f001214">Goodbye.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001215">“Goodbye.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001216">He stood and watched her till her tall figure was lost among the drooping corn leaves.</span>
   <span id="f001217">There was a singular choking feeling in his throat.</span>
   <span id="f001218">The girl’s voice and face had brought up so many memories of parties and picnics and excursions on far-off holidays,</span>
   <span id="f001219">and at the same time such suggestions of the future.</span>
   <span id="f001220">He already felt that it was going to be an unconscionably long time before eleven o’clock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001221">He saw her go to the house,</span>
   <span id="f001222">and then he turned and walked slowly up the dusty road.</span>
   <span id="f001223">Out of the May weed the grasshoppers sprang,</span>
   <span id="f001224">buzzing and snapping their dull red wings.</span>
   <span id="f001225">Butterflies,</span>
   <span id="f001226">yellow and white,</span>
   <span id="f001227">fluttered around moist places in the ditch,</span>
   <span id="f001228">and slender striped water snakes glided across the stagnant pools at sound o~ footsteps.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001229">But the mind of the man was far away on his claim,</span>
   <span id="f001230">building a new house,</span>
   <span id="f001231">with a woman’s advice and presence.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f001232">It was a windless night.</span>
   <span id="f001233">The katydids and an occasional cricket were the only sounds Rob could hear as he stood beside his team and strained his ear to listen.</span>
   <span id="f001234">At long intervals a little breeze ran through the corn like a swift serpent,</span>
   <span id="f001235">bringing to the nostrils the sappy smell of the growing corn.</span>
   <span id="f001236">The horses stamped uneasily as the mosquitoes settled on their shining limbs.</span>
   <span id="f001237">The sky was full of stars,</span>
   <span id="f001238">but there was no moon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001239">“What if she don’t come?” he thought.</span>
   <span id="f001240">“Or can’t come?</span>
   <span id="f001241">I can’t stand that.</span>
   <span id="f001242">I’ll go to the old man an’ say,</span>
   <span id="f001243">’Looky here-’ Sh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001244">He listened again.</span>
   <span id="f001245">There was a rustling in the corn.</span>
   <span id="f001246">It was not like the fitful movement of the wind;</span>
   <span id="f001247">it was steady,</span>
   <span id="f001248">slower,</span>
   <span id="f001249">and approaching.</span>
   <span id="f001250">It ceased.</span>
   <span id="f001251">He whistled the wailing,</span>
   <span id="f001252">sweet cry of the prairie chicken.</span>
   <span id="f001253">Then a figure came out into the road – a woman – Julia!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001254">He took her in his arms as she came panting up to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001255">“Rob!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001256">“Julyie!”</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f001257">A few words,</span>
   <span id="f001258">the dull tread of swift horses,</span>
   <span id="f001259">the rising of a silent train of dust,</span>
   <span id="f001260">and then the wind wandered in the growing corn.</span>
   <span id="f001261">The dust fell,</span>
   <span id="f001262">a dog barked down the road and the katydids sang to the liquid contralto of the river in its shallows.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

