<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Tell-Tale Heart</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edgar Allan Poe</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">True!</span>
   <span id="f000008">– nervous – very,</span>
   <span id="f000009">very dreadfully nervous I had been and am;</span>
   <span id="f000010">but why will you say that I am mad?</span>
   <span id="f000011">The disease had sharpened my senses – not destroyed – not dulled them.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Above all was the sense of hearing acute.</span>
   <span id="f000013">I heard all things in the heaven and in the earth.</span>
   <span id="f000014">I heard many things in hell.</span>
   <span id="f000015">How,</span>
   <span id="f000016">then,</span>
   <span id="f000017">am I mad?</span>
   <span id="f000018">Hearken!</span>
   <span id="f000019">and observe how healthily – how calmly I can tell you the whole story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">It is impossible to say how first the idea entered my brain;</span>
   <span id="f000021">but once conceived,</span>
   <span id="f000022">it haunted me day and night.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Object there was none.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Passion there was none.</span>
   <span id="f000025">I loved the old man.</span>
   <span id="f000026">He had never wronged me.</span>
   <span id="f000027">He had never given me insult.</span>
   <span id="f000028">For his gold I had no desire.</span>
   <span id="f000029">I think it was his eye!</span>
   <span id="f000030">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000031">it was this!</span>
   <span id="f000032">He had the eye of a vulture – a pale blue eye,</span>
   <span id="f000033">with a film over it.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Whenever it fell upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000035">my blood ran cold;</span>
   <span id="f000036">and so by degrees – very gradually – I made up my mind to take the life of the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and thus rid myself of the eye forever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">Now this is the point.</span>
   <span id="f000039">You fancy me mad.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Madmen know nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000041">But you should have seen me.</span>
   <span id="f000042">You should have seen how wisely I proceeded – with what caution – with what foresight – with what dissimulation I went to work!</span>
   <span id="f000043">I was never kinder to the old man than during the whole week before I killed him.</span>
   <span id="f000044">And every night,</span>
   <span id="f000045">about midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000046">I turned the latch of his door and opened it – oh so gently!</span>
   <span id="f000047">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000048">when I had made an opening sufficient for my head,</span>
   <span id="f000049">I put in a dark lantern,</span>
   <span id="f000050">all closed,</span>
   <span id="f000051">closed,</span>
   <span id="f000052">that no light shone out,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and then I thrust in my head.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000055">you would have laughed to see how cunningly I thrust it in!</span>
   <span id="f000056">I moved it slowly – very,</span>
   <span id="f000057">very slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000058">so that I might not disturb the old man’s sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000059">It took me an hour to place my whole head within the opening so far that I could see him as he lay upon his bed.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000061">would a madman have been so wise as this?</span>
   <span id="f000062">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000063">when my head was well in the room,</span>
   <span id="f000064">I undid the lantern cautiously – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000065">so cautiously – cautiously</span>
   <span id="f000066">(for the hinges creaked)</span>
   <span id="f000067">– I undid it just so much that a single thin ray fell upon the vulture eye.</span>
   <span id="f000068">And this I did for seven long nights – every night just at midnight – but I found the eye always closed;</span>
   <span id="f000069">and so it was impossible to do the work;</span>
   <span id="f000070">for it was not the old man who vexed me,</span>
   <span id="f000071">but his Evil Eye.</span>
   <span id="f000072">And every morning,</span>
   <span id="f000073">when the day broke,</span>
   <span id="f000074">I went boldly into the chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and spoke courageously to him,</span>
   <span id="f000076">calling him by name in a hearty tone,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and inquiring how he has passed the night.</span>
   <span id="f000078">So you see he would have been a very profound old man,</span>
   <span id="f000079">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000080">to suspect that every night,</span>
   <span id="f000081">just at twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000082">I looked in upon him while he slept.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">Upon the eighth night I was more than usually cautious in opening the door.</span>
   <span id="f000084">A watch’s minute hand moves more quickly than did mine.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Never before that night had I felt the extent of my own powers – of my sagacity.</span>
   <span id="f000086">I could scarcely contain my feelings of triumph.</span>
   <span id="f000087">To think that there I was,</span>
   <span id="f000088">opening the door,</span>
   <span id="f000089">little by little,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and he not even to dream of my secret deeds or thoughts.</span>
   <span id="f000091">I fairly chuckled at the idea;</span>
   <span id="f000092">and perhaps he heard me;</span>
   <span id="f000093">for he moved on the bed suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000094">as if startled.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Now you may think that I drew back – but no.</span>
   <span id="f000096">His room was as black as pitch with the thick darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000097">(for the shutters were close fastened,</span>
   <span id="f000098">through fear of robbers,)</span>
   <span id="f000099">and so I knew that he could not see the opening of the door,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and I kept pushing it on steadily,</span>
   <span id="f000101">steadily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">I had my head in,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and was about to open the lantern,</span>
   <span id="f000104">when my thumb slipped upon the tin fastening,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and the old man sprang up in bed,</span>
   <span id="f000106">crying out – “Who’s there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">I kept quite still and said nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000108">For a whole hour I did not move a muscle,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and in the meantime I did not hear him lie down.</span>
   <span id="f000110">He was still sitting up in the bed listening;</span>
   <span id="f000111">– just as I have done,</span>
   <span id="f000112">night after night,</span>
   <span id="f000113">hearkening to the death watches in the wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">Presently I heard a slight groan,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and I knew it was the groan of mortal terror.</span>
   <span id="f000116">It was not a groan of pain or of grief – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000117">no!</span>
   <span id="f000118">– it was the low stifled sound that arises from the bottom of the soul when overcharged with awe.</span>
   <span id="f000119">I knew the sound well.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Many a night,</span>
   <span id="f000121">just at midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000122">when all the world slept,</span>
   <span id="f000123">it has welled up from my own bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000124">deepening,</span>
   <span id="f000125">with its dreadful echo,</span>
   <span id="f000126">the terrors that distracted me.</span>
   <span id="f000127">I say I knew it well.</span>
   <span id="f000128">I knew what the old man felt,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and pitied him,</span>
   <span id="f000130">although I chuckled at heart.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I knew that he had been lying awake ever since the first slight noise,</span>
   <span id="f000132">when he had turned in the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000133">His fears had been ever since growing upon him.</span>
   <span id="f000134">He had been trying to fancy them causeless,</span>
   <span id="f000135">but could not.</span>
   <span id="f000136">He had been saying to himself – “It is nothing but the wind in the chimney – it is only a mouse crossing the floor,” or “It is merely a cricket which has made a single chirp.” Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000137">he had been trying to comfort himself with these suppositions:</span>
   <span id="f000138">but he had found all in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000139">All in vain;</span>
   <span id="f000140">because Death,</span>
   <span id="f000141">in approaching him had stalked with his black shadow before him,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and enveloped the victim.</span>
   <span id="f000143">And it was the mournful influence of the unperceived shadow that caused him to feel – although he neither saw nor heard – to feel the presence of my head within the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">When I had waited a long time,</span>
   <span id="f000145">very patiently,</span>
   <span id="f000146">without hearing him lie down,</span>
   <span id="f000147">I resolved to open a little – a very,</span>
   <span id="f000148">very little crevice in the lantern.</span>
   <span id="f000149">So I opened it – you cannot imagine how stealthily,</span>
   <span id="f000150">stealthily – until,</span>
   <span id="f000151">at length a simple dim ray,</span>
   <span id="f000152">like the thread of the spider,</span>
   <span id="f000153">shot from out the crevice and fell full upon the vulture eye.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">It was open – wide,</span>
   <span id="f000155">wide open – and I grew furious as I gazed upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000156">I saw it with perfect distinctness – all a dull blue,</span>
   <span id="f000157">with a hideous veil over it that chilled the very marrow in my bones;</span>
   <span id="f000158">but I could see nothing else of the old man’s face or person:</span>
   <span id="f000159">for I had directed the ray as if by instinct,</span>
   <span id="f000160">precisely upon the damned spot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">And have I not told you that what you mistake for madness is but over-acuteness of the sense?</span>
   <span id="f000162">– now,</span>
   <span id="f000163">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000164">there came to my ears a low,</span>
   <span id="f000165">dull,</span>
   <span id="f000166">quick sound,</span>
   <span id="f000167">such as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton.</span>
   <span id="f000168">I knew that sound well,</span>
   <span id="f000169">too.</span>
   <span id="f000170">It was the beating of the old man’s heart.</span>
   <span id="f000171">It increased my fury,</span>
   <span id="f000172">as the beating of a drum stimulates the soldier into courage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">But even yet I refrained and kept still.</span>
   <span id="f000174">I scarcely breathed.</span>
   <span id="f000175">I held the lantern motionless.</span>
   <span id="f000176">I tried how steadily I could maintain the ray upon the eve.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Meantime the hellish tattoo of the heart increased.</span>
   <span id="f000178">It grew quicker and quicker,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and louder and louder every instant.</span>
   <span id="f000180">The old man’s terror must have been extreme!</span>
   <span id="f000181">It grew louder,</span>
   <span id="f000182">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000183">louder every moment!</span>
   <span id="f000184">– do you mark me well I have told you that I am nervous:</span>
   <span id="f000185">so I am.</span>
   <span id="f000186">And now at the dead hour of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000187">amid the dreadful silence of that old house,</span>
   <span id="f000188">so strange a noise as this excited me to uncontrollable terror.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000190">for some minutes longer I refrained and stood still.</span>
   <span id="f000191">But the beating grew louder,</span>
   <span id="f000192">louder!</span>
   <span id="f000193">I thought the heart must burst.</span>
   <span id="f000194">And now a new anxiety seized me – the sound would be heard by a neighbour!</span>
   <span id="f000195">The old man’s hour had come!</span>
   <span id="f000196">With a loud yell,</span>
   <span id="f000197">I threw open the lantern and leaped into the room.</span>
   <span id="f000198">He shrieked once – once only.</span>
   <span id="f000199">In an instant I dragged him to the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and pulled the heavy bed over him.</span>
   <span id="f000201">I then smiled gaily,</span>
   <span id="f000202">to find the deed so far done.</span>
   <span id="f000203">But,</span>
   <span id="f000204">for many minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000205">the heart beat on with a muffled sound.</span>
   <span id="f000206">This,</span>
   <span id="f000207">however,</span>
   <span id="f000208">did not vex me;</span>
   <span id="f000209">it would not be heard through the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000210">At length it ceased.</span>
   <span id="f000211">The old man was dead.</span>
   <span id="f000212">I removed the bed and examined the corpse.</span>
   <span id="f000213">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000214">he was stone,</span>
   <span id="f000215">stone dead.</span>
   <span id="f000216">I placed my hand upon the heart and held it there many minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000217">There was no pulsation.</span>
   <span id="f000218">He was stone dead.</span>
   <span id="f000219">His eye would trouble me no more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">If still you think me mad,</span>
   <span id="f000221">you will think so no longer when I describe the wise precautions I took for the concealment of the body.</span>
   <span id="f000222">The night waned,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and I worked hastily,</span>
   <span id="f000224">but in silence.</span>
   <span id="f000225">First of all I dismembered the corpse.</span>
   <span id="f000226">I cut off the head and the arms and the legs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">I then took up three planks from the flooring of the chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and deposited all between the scantlings.</span>
   <span id="f000229">I then replaced the boards so cleverly,</span>
   <span id="f000230">so cunningly,</span>
   <span id="f000231">that no human eye – not even his – could have detected any thing wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000232">There was nothing to wash out – no stain of any kind – no blood-spot whatever.</span>
   <span id="f000233">I had been too wary for that.</span>
   <span id="f000234">A tub had caught all – ha!</span>
   <span id="f000235">ha!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">When I had made an end of these labors,</span>
   <span id="f000237">it was four o’clock – still dark as midnight.</span>
   <span id="f000238">As the bell sounded the hour,</span>
   <span id="f000239">there came a knocking at the street door.</span>
   <span id="f000240">I went down to open it with a light heart,</span>
   <span id="f000241">– for what had I now to fear?</span>
   <span id="f000242">There entered three men,</span>
   <span id="f000243">who introduced themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000244">with perfect suavity,</span>
   <span id="f000245">as officers of the police.</span>
   <span id="f000246">A shriek had been heard by a neighbour during the night;</span>
   <span id="f000247">suspicion of foul play had been aroused;</span>
   <span id="f000248">information had been lodged at the police office,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and they</span>
   <span id="f000250">(the officers)</span>
   <span id="f000251">had been deputed to search the premises.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">I smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000253">– for what had I to fear?</span>
   <span id="f000254">I bade the gentlemen welcome.</span>
   <span id="f000255">The shriek,</span>
   <span id="f000256">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000257">was my own in a dream.</span>
   <span id="f000258">The old man,</span>
   <span id="f000259">I mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000260">was absent in the country.</span>
   <span id="f000261">I took my visitors all over the house.</span>
   <span id="f000262">I bade them search – search well.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I led them,</span>
   <span id="f000264">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000265">to his chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000266">I showed them his treasures,</span>
   <span id="f000267">secure,</span>
   <span id="f000268">undisturbed.</span>
   <span id="f000269">In the enthusiasm of my confidence,</span>
   <span id="f000270">I brought chairs into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and desired them here to rest from their fatigues,</span>
   <span id="f000272">while I myself,</span>
   <span id="f000273">in the wild audacity of my perfect triumph,</span>
   <span id="f000274">placed my own seat upon the very spot beneath which reposed the corpse of the victim.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">The officers were satisfied.</span>
   <span id="f000276">My manner had convinced them.</span>
   <span id="f000277">I was singularly at ease.</span>
   <span id="f000278">They sat,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and while I answered cheerily,</span>
   <span id="f000280">they chatted of familiar things.</span>
   <span id="f000281">But,</span>
   <span id="f000282">ere long,</span>
   <span id="f000283">I felt myself getting pale and wished them gone.</span>
   <span id="f000284">My head ached,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and I fancied a ringing in my ears:</span>
   <span id="f000286">but still they sat and still chatted.</span>
   <span id="f000287">The ringing became more distinct:</span>
   <span id="f000288">– It continued and became more distinct:</span>
   <span id="f000289">I talked more freely to get rid of the feeling:</span>
   <span id="f000290">but it continued and gained definiteness – until,</span>
   <span id="f000291">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000292">I found that the noise was not within my ears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">No doubt I now grew <em>very</em> pale;</span>
   <span id="f000294">– but I talked more fluently,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and with a heightened voice.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Yet the sound increased – and what could I do?</span>
   <span id="f000297">It was a low,</span>
   <span id="f000298">dull,</span>
   <span id="f000299">quick sound – much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton.</span>
   <span id="f000300">I gasped for breath – and yet the officers heard it not.</span>
   <span id="f000301">I talked more quickly – more vehemently;</span>
   <span id="f000302">but the noise steadily increased.</span>
   <span id="f000303">I arose and argued about trifles,</span>
   <span id="f000304">in a high key and with violent gesticulations;</span>
   <span id="f000305">but the noise steadily increased.</span>
   <span id="f000306">Why would they not be gone?</span>
   <span id="f000307">I paced the floor to and fro with heavy strides,</span>
   <span id="f000308">as if excited to fury by the observations of the men – but the noise steadily increased.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Oh God!</span>
   <span id="f000310">what could I do?</span>
   <span id="f000311">I foamed – I raved – I swore!</span>
   <span id="f000312">I swung the chair upon which I had been sitting,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and grated it upon the boards,</span>
   <span id="f000314">but the noise arose over all and continually increased.</span>
   <span id="f000315">It grew louder – louder – louder!</span>
   <span id="f000316">And still the men chatted pleasantly,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and smiled.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Was it possible they heard not?</span>
   <span id="f000319">Almighty God!</span>
   <span id="f000320">– no,</span>
   <span id="f000321">no!</span>
   <span id="f000322">They heard!</span>
   <span id="f000323">– they suspected!</span>
   <span id="f000324">– they knew!</span>
   <span id="f000325">– they were making a mockery of my horror!-this I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and this I think.</span>
   <span id="f000327">But anything was better than this agony!</span>
   <span id="f000328">Anything was more tolerable than this derision!</span>
   <span id="f000329">I could bear those hypocritical smiles no longer!</span>
   <span id="f000330">I felt that I must scream or die!</span>
   <span id="f000331">and now – again!</span>
   <span id="f000332">– hark!</span>
   <span id="f000333">louder!</span>
   <span id="f000334">louder!</span>
   <span id="f000335">louder!</span>
   <span id="f000336">louder!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“Villains!” I shrieked,</span>
   <span id="f000338">“dissemble no more!</span>
   <span id="f000339">I admit the deed!</span>
   <span id="f000340">– tear up the planks!</span>
   <span id="f000341">here,</span>
   <span id="f000342">here!</span>
   <span id="f000343">– It is the beating of his hideous heart!”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

