<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Gregg Margarite</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Young King</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Oscar Wilde</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">It was the night before the day fixed for his coronation,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and the young King was sitting alone in his beautiful chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000009">His courtiers had all taken their leave of him,</span>
   <span id="f000010">bowing their heads to the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000011">according to the ceremonious usage of the day,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and had retired to the Great Hall of the Palace,</span>
   <span id="f000013">to receive a few last lessons from the Professor of Etiquette;</span>
   <span id="f000014">there being some of them who had still quite natural manners,</span>
   <span id="f000015">which in a courtier is,</span>
   <span id="f000016">I need hardly say,</span>
   <span id="f000017">a very grave offence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">The lad – for he was only a lad,</span>
   <span id="f000019">being but sixteen years of age – was not sorry at their departure,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and had flung himself back with a deep sigh of relief on the soft cushions of his embroidered couch,</span>
   <span id="f000021">lying there,</span>
   <span id="f000022">wild-eyed and open-mouthed,</span>
   <span id="f000023">like a brown woodland Faun,</span>
   <span id="f000024">or some young animal of the forest newly snared by the hunters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">And,</span>
   <span id="f000026">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000027">it was the hunters who had found him,</span>
   <span id="f000028">coming upon him almost by chance as,</span>
   <span id="f000029">bare-limbed and pipe in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000030">he was following the flock of the poor goatherd who had brought him up,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and whose son he had always fancied himself to be.</span>
   <span id="f000032">The child of the old King’s only daughter by a secret marriage with one much beneath her in station – a stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000033">some said,</span>
   <span id="f000034">who,</span>
   <span id="f000035">by the wonderful magic of his lute-playing,</span>
   <span id="f000036">had made the young Princess love him;</span>
   <span id="f000037">while others spoke of an artist from Rimini,</span>
   <span id="f000038">to whom the Princess had shown much,</span>
   <span id="f000039">perhaps too much honour,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and who had suddenly disappeared from the city,</span>
   <span id="f000041">leaving his work in the Cathedral unfinished – he had been,</span>
   <span id="f000042">when but a week old,</span>
   <span id="f000043">stolen away from his mother’s side,</span>
   <span id="f000044">as she slept,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and given into the charge of a common peasant and his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000046">who were without children of their own,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and lived in a remote part of the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000048">more than a day’s ride from the town.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Grief,</span>
   <span id="f000050">or the plague,</span>
   <span id="f000051">as the court physician stated,</span>
   <span id="f000052">or,</span>
   <span id="f000053">as some suggested,</span>
   <span id="f000054">a swift Italian poison administered in a cup of spiced wine,</span>
   <span id="f000055">slew,</span>
   <span id="f000056">within an hour of her wakening,</span>
   <span id="f000057">the white girl who had given him birth,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and as the trusty messenger who bare the child across his saddle-bow stooped from his weary horse and knocked at the rude door of the goatherd’s hut,</span>
   <span id="f000059">the body of the Princess was being lowered into an open grave that had been dug in a deserted churchyard,</span>
   <span id="f000060">beyond the city gates,</span>
   <span id="f000061">a grave where it was said that another body was also lying,</span>
   <span id="f000062">that of a young man of marvellous and foreign beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000063">whose hands were tied behind him with a knotted cord,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and whose breast was stabbed with many red wounds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">Such,</span>
   <span id="f000066">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000067">was the story that men whispered to each other.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Certain it was that the old King,</span>
   <span id="f000069">when on his deathbed,</span>
   <span id="f000070">whether moved by remorse for his great sin,</span>
   <span id="f000071">or merely desiring that the kingdom should not pass away from his line,</span>
   <span id="f000072">had had the lad sent for,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and,</span>
   <span id="f000074">in the presence of the Council,</span>
   <span id="f000075">had acknowledged him as his heir.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">And it seems that from the very first moment of his recognition he had shown signs of that strange passion for beauty that was destined to have so great an influence over his life.</span>
   <span id="f000077">Those who accompanied him to the suite of rooms set apart for his service,</span>
   <span id="f000078">often spoke of the cry of pleasure that broke from his lips when he saw the delicate raiment and rich jewels that had been prepared for him,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and of the almost fierce joy with which he flung aside his rough leathern tunic and coarse sheepskin cloak.</span>
   <span id="f000080">He missed,</span>
   <span id="f000081">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000082">at times the fine freedom of his forest life,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and was always apt to chafe at the tedious Court ceremonies that occupied so much of each day,</span>
   <span id="f000084">but the wonderful palace – Joyeuse,</span>
   <span id="f000085">as they called it – of which he now found himself lord,</span>
   <span id="f000086">seemed to him to be a new world fresh-fashioned for his delight;</span>
   <span id="f000087">and as soon as he could escape from the council-board or audience-chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000088">he would run down the great staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000089">with its lions of gilt bronze and its steps of bright porphyry,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and wander from room to room,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and from corridor to corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000092">like one who was seeking to find in beauty an anodyne from pain,</span>
   <span id="f000093">a sort of restoration from sickness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">Upon these journeys of discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000095">as he would call them – and,</span>
   <span id="f000096">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000097">they were to him real voyages through a marvellous land,</span>
   <span id="f000098">he would sometimes be accompanied by the slim,</span>
   <span id="f000099">fair-haired Court pages,</span>
   <span id="f000100">with their floating mantles,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and gay fluttering ribands;</span>
   <span id="f000102">but more often he would be alone,</span>
   <span id="f000103">feeling through a certain quick instinct,</span>
   <span id="f000104">which was almost a divination,</span>
   <span id="f000105">that the secrets of art are best learned in secret,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and that Beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000107">like Wisdom,</span>
   <span id="f000108">loves the lonely worshipper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">Many curious stories were related about him at this period.</span>
   <span id="f000110">It was said that a stout Burgo-master,</span>
   <span id="f000111">who had come to deliver a florid oratorical address on behalf of the citizens of the town,</span>
   <span id="f000112">had caught sight of him kneeling in real adoration before a great picture that had just been brought from Venice,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and that seemed to herald the worship of some new gods.</span>
   <span id="f000114">On another occasion he had been missed for several hours,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and after a lengthened search had been discovered in a little chamber in one of the northern turrets of the palace gazing,</span>
   <span id="f000116">as one in a trance,</span>
   <span id="f000117">at a Greek gem carved with the figure of Adonis.</span>
   <span id="f000118">He had been seen,</span>
   <span id="f000119">so the tale ran,</span>
   <span id="f000120">pressing his warm lips to the marble brow of an antique statue that had been discovered in the bed of the river on the occasion of the building of the stone bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and was inscribed with the name of the Bithynian slave of Hadrian.</span>
   <span id="f000122">He had passed a whole night in noting the effect of the moonlight on a silver image of Endymion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">All rare and costly materials had certainly a great fascination for him,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and in his eagerness to procure them he had sent away many merchants,</span>
   <span id="f000125">some to traffic for amber with the rough fisher-folk of the north seas,</span>
   <span id="f000126">some to Egypt to look for that curious green turquoise which is found only in the tombs of kings,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and is said to possess magical properties,</span>
   <span id="f000128">some to Persia for silken carpets and painted pottery,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and others to India to buy gauze and stained ivory,</span>
   <span id="f000130">moonstones and bracelets of jade,</span>
   <span id="f000131">sandal-wood and blue enamel and shawls of fine wool.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">But what had occupied him most was the robe he was to wear at his coronation,</span>
   <span id="f000133">the robe of tissued gold,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and the ruby-studded crown,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and the sceptre with its rows and rings of pearls.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000137">it was of this that he was thinking to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000138">as he lay back on his luxurious couch,</span>
   <span id="f000139">watching the great pinewood log that was burning itself out on the open hearth.</span>
   <span id="f000140">The designs,</span>
   <span id="f000141">which were from the hands of the most famous artists of the time,</span>
   <span id="f000142">had been submitted to him many months before,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and he had given orders that the artificers were to toil night and day to carry them out,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and that the whole world was to be searched for jewels that would be worthy of their work.</span>
   <span id="f000145">He saw himself in fancy standing at the high altar of the cathedral in the fair raiment of a King,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and a smile played and lingered about his boyish lips,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and lit up with a bright lustre his dark woodland eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">After some time he rose from his seat,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and leaning against the carved penthouse of the chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000150">looked round at the dimly-lit room.</span>
   <span id="f000151">The walls were hung with rich tapestries representing the Triumph of Beauty.</span>
   <span id="f000152">A large press,</span>
   <span id="f000153">inlaid with agate and lapis- lazuli,</span>
   <span id="f000154">filled one corner,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and facing the window stood a curiously wrought cabinet with lacquer panels of powdered and mosaiced gold,</span>
   <span id="f000156">on which were placed some delicate goblets of Venetian glass,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and a cup of dark-veined onyx.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Pale poppies were broidered on the silk coverlet of the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000159">as though they had fallen from the tired hands of sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and tall reeds of fluted ivory bare up the velvet canopy,</span>
   <span id="f000161">from which great tufts of ostrich plumes sprang,</span>
   <span id="f000162">like white foam,</span>
   <span id="f000163">to the pallid silver of the fretted ceiling.</span>
   <span id="f000164">A laughing Narcissus in green bronze held a polished mirror above its head.</span>
   <span id="f000165">On the table stood a flat bowl of amethyst.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">Outside he could see the huge dome of the cathedral,</span>
   <span id="f000167">looming like a bubble over the shadowy houses,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and the weary sentinels pacing up and down on the misty terrace by the river.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Far away,</span>
   <span id="f000170">in an orchard,</span>
   <span id="f000171">a nightingale was singing.</span>
   <span id="f000172">A faint perfume of jasmine came through the open window.</span>
   <span id="f000173">He brushed his brown curls back from his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and taking up a lute,</span>
   <span id="f000175">let his fingers stray across the cords.</span>
   <span id="f000176">His heavy eyelids drooped,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and a strange languor came over him.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Never before had he felt so keenly,</span>
   <span id="f000179">or with such exquisite joy,</span>
   <span id="f000180">the magic and the mystery of beautiful things.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">When midnight sounded from the clock-tower he touched a bell,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and his pages entered and disrobed him with much ceremony,</span>
   <span id="f000183">pouring rose-water over his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and strewing flowers on his pillow.</span>
   <span id="f000185">A few moments after that they had left the room,</span>
   <span id="f000186">he fell asleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">And as he slept he dreamed a dream,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and this was his dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">He thought that he was standing in a long,</span>
   <span id="f000190">low attic,</span>
   <span id="f000191">amidst the whir and clatter of many looms.</span>
   <span id="f000192">The meagre daylight peered in through the grated windows,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and showed him the gaunt figures of the weavers bending over their cases.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Pale,</span>
   <span id="f000195">sickly-looking children were crouched on the huge crossbeams.</span>
   <span id="f000196">As the shuttles dashed through the warp they lifted up the heavy battens,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and when the shuttles stopped they let the battens fall and pressed the threads together.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Their faces were pinched with famine,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and their thin hands shook and trembled.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Some haggard women were seated at a table sewing.</span>
   <span id="f000201">A horrible odour filled the place.</span>
   <span id="f000202">The air was foul and heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and the walls dripped and streamed with damp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">The young King went over to one of the weavers,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and stood by him and watched him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">And the weaver looked at him angrily,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000208">’Why art thou watching me?</span>
   <span id="f000209">Art thou a spy set on us by our master?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">’Who is thy master?’ asked the young King.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">’Our master!’ cried the weaver,</span>
   <span id="f000212">bitterly.</span>
   <span id="f000213">’He is a man like myself.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000215">there is but this difference between us – that he wears fine clothes while I go in rags,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and that while I am weak from hunger he suffers not a little from overfeeding.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">’The land is free,’ said the young King,</span>
   <span id="f000218">’and thou art no man’s slave.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">’In war,’ answered the weaver,</span>
   <span id="f000220">’the strong make slaves of the weak,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and in peace the rich make slaves of the poor.</span>
   <span id="f000222">We must work to live,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and they give us such mean wages that we die.</span>
   <span id="f000224">We toil for them all day long,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and they heap up gold in their coffers,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and our children fade away before their time,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and the faces of those we love become hard and evil.</span>
   <span id="f000228">We tread out the grapes,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and another drinks the wine.</span>
   <span id="f000230">We sow the corn,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and our own board is empty.</span>
   <span id="f000232">We have chains,</span>
   <span id="f000233">though no eye beholds them;</span>
   <span id="f000234">and are slaves,</span>
   <span id="f000235">though men call us free.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">’Is it so with all?’ he asked,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">’It is so with all,’ answered the weaver,</span>
   <span id="f000238">’with the young as well as with the old,</span>
   <span id="f000239">with the women as well as with the men,</span>
   <span id="f000240">with the little children as well as with those who are stricken in years.</span>
   <span id="f000241">The merchants grind us down,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and we must needs do their bidding.</span>
   <span id="f000243">The priest rides by and tells his beads,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and no man has care of us.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Through our sunless lanes creeps Poverty with her hungry eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and Sin with his sodden face follows close behind her.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Misery wakes us in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and Shame sits with us at night.</span>
   <span id="f000249">But what are these things to thee?</span>
   <span id="f000250">Thou art not one of us.</span>
   <span id="f000251">Thy face is too happy.’ And he turned away scowling,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and threw the shuttle across the loom,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and the young King saw that it was threaded with a thread of gold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">And a great terror seized upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and he said to the weaver,</span>
   <span id="f000256">’What robe is this that thou art weaving?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">’It is the robe for the coronation of the young King,’ he answered;</span>
   <span id="f000258">’what is that to thee?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">And the young King gave a loud cry and woke,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and lo!</span>
   <span id="f000261">he was in his own chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and through the window he saw the great honey-coloured moon hanging in the dusky air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">And he fell asleep again and dreamed,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and this was his dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">He thought that he was lying on the deck of a huge galley that was being rowed by a hundred slaves.</span>
   <span id="f000266">On a carpet by his side the master of the galley was seated.</span>
   <span id="f000267">He was black as ebony,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and his turban was of crimson silk.</span>
   <span id="f000269">Great earrings of silver dragged down the thick lobes of his ears,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and in his hands he had a pair of ivory scales.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">The slaves were naked,</span>
   <span id="f000272">but for a ragged loin-cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and each man was chained to his neighbour.</span>
   <span id="f000274">The hot sun beat brightly upon them,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and the negroes ran up and down the gangway and lashed them with whips of hide.</span>
   <span id="f000276">They stretched out their lean arms and pulled the heavy oars through the water.</span>
   <span id="f000277">The salt spray flew from the blades.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">At last they reached a little bay,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and began to take soundings.</span>
   <span id="f000280">A light wind blew from the shore,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and covered the deck and the great lateen sail with a fine red dust.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Three Arabs mounted on wild asses rode out and threw spears at them.</span>
   <span id="f000283">The master of the galley took a painted bow in his hand and shot one of them in the throat.</span>
   <span id="f000284">He fell heavily into the surf,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and his companions galloped away.</span>
   <span id="f000286">A woman wrapped in a yellow veil followed slowly on a camel,</span>
   <span id="f000287">looking back now and then at the dead body.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">As soon as they had cast anchor and hauled down the sail,</span>
   <span id="f000289">the negroes went into the hold and brought up a long rope-ladder,</span>
   <span id="f000290">heavily weighted with lead.</span>
   <span id="f000291">The master of the galley threw it over the side,</span>
   <span id="f000292">making the ends fast to two iron stanchions.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Then the negroes seized the youngest of the slaves and knocked his gyves off,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and filled his nostrils and his ears with wax,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and tied a big stone round his waist.</span>
   <span id="f000296">He crept wearily down the ladder,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and disappeared into the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000298">A few bubbles rose where he sank.</span>
   <span id="f000299">Some of the other slaves peered curiously over the side.</span>
   <span id="f000300">At the prow of the galley sat a shark-charmer,</span>
   <span id="f000301">beating monotonously upon a drum.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">After some time the diver rose up out of the water,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and clung panting to the ladder with a pearl in his right hand.</span>
   <span id="f000304">The negroes seized it from him,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and thrust him back.</span>
   <span id="f000306">The slaves fell asleep over their oars.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">Again and again he came up,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and each time that he did so he brought with him a beautiful pearl.</span>
   <span id="f000309">The master of the galley weighed them,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and put them into a little bag of green leather.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">The young King tried to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000312">but his tongue seemed to cleave to the roof of his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and his lips refused to move.</span>
   <span id="f000314">The negroes chattered to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and began to quarrel over a string of bright beads.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Two cranes flew round and round the vessel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">Then the diver came up for the last time,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and the pearl that he brought with him was fairer than all the pearls of Ormuz,</span>
   <span id="f000319">for it was shaped like the full moon,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and whiter than the morning star.</span>
   <span id="f000321">But his face was strangely pale,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and as he fell upon the deck the blood gushed from his ears and nostrils.</span>
   <span id="f000323">He quivered for a little,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and then he was still.</span>
   <span id="f000325">The negroes shrugged their shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and threw the body overboard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">And the master of the galley laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and,</span>
   <span id="f000329">reaching out,</span>
   <span id="f000330">he took the pearl,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and when he saw it he pressed it to his forehead and bowed.</span>
   <span id="f000332">’It shall be,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000333">’for the sceptre of the young King,’ and he made a sign to the negroes to draw up the anchor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">And when the young King heard this he gave a great cry,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and woke,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and through the window he saw the long grey fingers of the dawn clutching at the fading stars.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">And he fell asleep again,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and dreamed,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and this was his dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">He thought that he was wandering through a dim wood,</span>
   <span id="f000341">hung with strange fruits and with beautiful poisonous flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000342">The adders hissed at him as he went by,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and the bright parrots flew screaming from branch to branch.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Huge tortoises lay asleep upon the hot mud.</span>
   <span id="f000345">The trees were full of apes and peacocks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">On and on he went,</span>
   <span id="f000347">till he reached the outskirts of the wood,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and there he saw an immense multitude of men toiling in the bed of a dried-up river.</span>
   <span id="f000349">They swarmed up the crag like ants.</span>
   <span id="f000350">They dug deep pits in the ground and went down into them.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Some of them cleft the rocks with great axes;</span>
   <span id="f000352">others grabbled in the sand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">They tore up the cactus by its roots,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and trampled on the scarlet blossoms.</span>
   <span id="f000355">They hurried about,</span>
   <span id="f000356">calling to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and no man was idle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">From the darkness of a cavern Death and Avarice watched them,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and Death said,</span>
   <span id="f000360">’I am weary;</span>
   <span id="f000361">give me a third of them and let me go.’ But Avarice shook her head.</span>
   <span id="f000362">’They are my servants,’ she answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">And Death said to her,</span>
   <span id="f000364">’What hast thou in thy hand?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">’I have three grains of corn,’ she answered;</span>
   <span id="f000366">’what is that to thee?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">’Give me one of them,’ cried Death,</span>
   <span id="f000368">’to plant in my garden;</span>
   <span id="f000369">only one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and I will go away.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">’I will not give thee anything,’ said Avarice,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and she hid her hand in the fold of her raiment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">And Death laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and took a cup,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and dipped it into a pool of water,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and out of the cup rose Ague.</span>
   <span id="f000377">She passed through the great multitude,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and a third of them lay dead.</span>
   <span id="f000379">A cold mist followed her,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and the water-snakes ran by her side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">And when Avarice saw that a third of the multitude was dead she beat her breast and wept.</span>
   <span id="f000382">She beat her barren bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and cried aloud.</span>
   <span id="f000384">’Thou hast slain a third of my servants,’ she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000385">’get thee gone.</span>
   <span id="f000386">There is war in the mountains of Tartary,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and the kings of each side are calling to thee.</span>
   <span id="f000388">The Afghans have slain the black ox,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and are marching to battle.</span>
   <span id="f000390">They have beaten upon their shields with their spears,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and have put on their helmets of iron.</span>
   <span id="f000392">What is my valley to thee,</span>
   <span id="f000393">that thou shouldst tarry in it?</span>
   <span id="f000394">Get thee gone,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and come here no more.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">’Nay,’ answered Death,</span>
   <span id="f000397">’but till thou hast given me a grain of corn I will not go.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">But Avarice shut her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and clenched her teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000400">’I will not give thee anything,’ she muttered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">And Death laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and took up a black stone,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and threw it into the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and out of a thicket of wild hemlock came Fever in a robe of flame.</span>
   <span id="f000405">She passed through the multitude,</span>
   <span id="f000406">and touched them,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and each man that she touched died.</span>
   <span id="f000408">The grass withered beneath her feet as she walked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">And Avarice shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and put ashes on her head.</span>
   <span id="f000411">’Thou art cruel,’ she cried;</span>
   <span id="f000412">’thou art cruel.</span>
   <span id="f000413">There is famine in the walled cities of India,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and the cisterns of Samarcand have run dry.</span>
   <span id="f000415">There is famine in the walled cities of Egypt,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and the locusts have come up from the desert.</span>
   <span id="f000417">The Nile has not overflowed its banks,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and the priests have cursed Isis and Osiris.</span>
   <span id="f000419">Get thee gone to those who need thee,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and leave me my servants.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">’Nay,’ answered Death,</span>
   <span id="f000422">’but till thou hast given me a grain of corn I will not go.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">’I will not give thee anything,’ said Avarice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">And Death laughed again,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and he whistled through his fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and a woman came flying through the air.</span>
   <span id="f000427">Plague was written upon her forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and a crowd of lean vultures wheeled round her.</span>
   <span id="f000429">She covered the valley with her wings,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and no man was left alive.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">And Avarice fled shrieking through the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and Death leaped upon his red horse and galloped away,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and his galloping was faster than the wind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">And out of the slime at the bottom of the valley crept dragons and horrible things with scales,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and the jackals came trotting along the sand,</span>
   <span id="f000436">sniffing up the air with their nostrils.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">And the young King wept,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000439">’Who were these men,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and for what were they seeking?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">’For rubies for a king’s crown,’ answered one who stood behind him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">And the young King started,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and,</span>
   <span id="f000444">turning round,</span>
   <span id="f000445">he saw a man habited as a pilgrim and holding in his hand a mirror of silver.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">And he grew pale,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000448">’For what king?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">And the pilgrim answered:</span>
   <span id="f000450">’Look in this mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and thou shalt see him.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">And he looked in the mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and,</span>
   <span id="f000454">seeing his own face,</span>
   <span id="f000455">he gave a great cry and woke,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and the bright sunlight was streaming into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and from the trees of the garden and pleasaunce the birds were singing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">And the Chamberlain and the high officers of State came in and made obeisance to him,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and the pages brought him the robe of tissued gold,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and set the crown and the sceptre before him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">And the young King looked at them,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and they were beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000463">More beautiful were they than aught that he had ever seen.</span>
   <span id="f000464">But he remembered his dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and he said to his lords:</span>
   <span id="f000466">’Take these things away,</span>
   <span id="f000467">for I will not wear them.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">And the courtiers were amazed,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and some of them laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000470">for they thought that he was jesting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">But he spake sternly to them again,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000473">’Take these things away,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and hide them from me.</span>
   <span id="f000475">Though it be the day of my coronation,</span>
   <span id="f000476">I will not wear them.</span>
   <span id="f000477">For on the loom of Sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and by the white hands of Pain,</span>
   <span id="f000479">has this my robe been woven.</span>
   <span id="f000480">There is Blood in the heart of the ruby,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and Death in the heart of the pearl.’ And he told them his three dreams.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">And when the courtiers heard them they looked at each other and whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000483">saying:</span>
   <span id="f000484">’Surely he is mad;</span>
   <span id="f000485">for what is a dream but a dream,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and a vision but a vision?</span>
   <span id="f000487">They are not real things that one should heed them.</span>
   <span id="f000488">And what have we to do with the lives of those who toil for us?</span>
   <span id="f000489">Shall a man not eat bread till he has seen the sower,</span>
   <span id="f000490">nor drink wine till he has talked with the vinedresser?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">And the Chamberlain spake to the young King,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000493">’My lord,</span>
   <span id="f000494">I pray thee set aside these black thoughts of thine,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and put on this fair robe,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and set this crown upon thy head.</span>
   <span id="f000497">For how shall the people know that thou art a king,</span>
   <span id="f000498">if thou hast not a king’s raiment?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">And the young King looked at him.</span>
   <span id="f000500">’Is it so,</span>
   <span id="f000501">indeed?’ he questioned.</span>
   <span id="f000502">’Will they not know me for a king if I have not a king’s raiment?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">’They will not know thee,</span>
   <span id="f000504">my lord,’ cried the Chamberlain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">’I had thought that there had been men who were kinglike,’ he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000506">’but it may be as thou sayest.</span>
   <span id="f000507">And yet I will not wear this robe,</span>
   <span id="f000508">nor will I be crowned with this crown,</span>
   <span id="f000509">but even as I came to the palace so will I go forth from it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000510">And he bade them all leave him,</span>
   <span id="f000511">save one page whom he kept as his companion,</span>
   <span id="f000512">a lad a year younger than himself.</span>
   <span id="f000513">Him he kept for his service,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and when he had bathed himself in clear water,</span>
   <span id="f000515">he opened a great painted chest,</span>
   <span id="f000516">and from it he took the leathern tunic and rough sheepskin cloak that he had worn when he had watched on the hillside the shaggy goats of the goatherd.</span>
   <span id="f000517">These he put on,</span>
   <span id="f000518">and in his hand he took his rude shepherd’s staff.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">And the little page opened his big blue eyes in wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and said smiling to him,</span>
   <span id="f000521">’My lord,</span>
   <span id="f000522">I see thy robe and thy sceptre,</span>
   <span id="f000523">but where is thy crown?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">And the young King plucked a spray of wild briar that was climbing over the balcony,</span>
   <span id="f000525">and bent it,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and made a circlet of it,</span>
   <span id="f000527">and set it on his own head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">’This shall he my crown,’ he answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">And thus attired he passed out of his chamber into the Great Hall,</span>
   <span id="f000530">where the nobles were waiting for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">And the nobles made merry,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and some of them cried out to him,</span>
   <span id="f000533">’My lord,</span>
   <span id="f000534">the people wait for their king,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and thou showest them a beggar,’ and others were wroth and said,</span>
   <span id="f000536">’He brings shame upon our state,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and is unworthy to be our master.’ But he answered them not a word,</span>
   <span id="f000538">but passed on,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and went down the bright porphyry staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000540">and out through the gates of bronze,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and mounted upon his horse,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and rode towards the cathedral,</span>
   <span id="f000543">the little page running beside him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">And the people laughed and said,</span>
   <span id="f000545">’It is the King’s fool who is riding by,’ and they mocked him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">And he drew rein and said,</span>
   <span id="f000547">’Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000548">but I am the King.’ And he told them his three dreams.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">And a man came out of the crowd and spake bitterly to him,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000551">’Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000552">knowest thou not that out of the luxury of the rich cometh the life of the poor?</span>
   <span id="f000553">By your pomp we are nurtured,</span>
   <span id="f000554">and your vices give us bread.</span>
   <span id="f000555">To toil for a hard master is bitter,</span>
   <span id="f000556">but to have no master to toil for is more bitter still.</span>
   <span id="f000557">Thinkest thou that the ravens will feed us?</span>
   <span id="f000558">And what cure hast thou for these things?</span>
   <span id="f000559">Wilt thou say to the buyer,</span>
   <span id="f000560">“Thou shalt buy for so much,” and to the seller,</span>
   <span id="f000561">“Thou shalt sell at this price”?</span>
   <span id="f000562">I trow not.</span>
   <span id="f000563">Therefore go back to thy Palace and put on thy purple and fine linen.</span>
   <span id="f000564">What hast thou to do with us,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and what we suffer?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">’Are not the rich and the poor brothers?’ asked the young King.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000567">’Ay,’ answered the man,</span>
   <span id="f000568">’and the name of the rich brother is Cain.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000569">And the young King’s eyes filled with tears,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and he rode on through the murmurs of the people,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and the little page grew afraid and left him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">And when he reached the great portal of the cathedral,</span>
   <span id="f000573">the soldiers thrust their halberts out and said,</span>
   <span id="f000574">’What dost thou seek here?</span>
   <span id="f000575">None enters by this door but the King.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">And his face flushed with anger,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and he said to them,</span>
   <span id="f000578">’I am the King,’ and waved their halberts aside and passed in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">And when the old Bishop saw him coming in his goatherd’s dress,</span>
   <span id="f000580">he rose up in wonder from his throne,</span>
   <span id="f000581">and went to meet him,</span>
   <span id="f000582">and said to him,</span>
   <span id="f000583">’My son,</span>
   <span id="f000584">is this a king’s apparel?</span>
   <span id="f000585">And with what crown shall I crown thee,</span>
   <span id="f000586">and what sceptre shall I place in thy hand?</span>
   <span id="f000587">Surely this should be to thee a day of joy,</span>
   <span id="f000588">and not a day of abasement.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">’Shall Joy wear what Grief has fashioned?’ said the young King.</span>
   <span id="f000590">And he told him his three dreams.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">And when the Bishop had heard them he knit his brows,</span>
   <span id="f000592">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000593">’My son,</span>
   <span id="f000594">I am an old man,</span>
   <span id="f000595">and in the winter of my days,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and I know that many evil things are done in the wide world.</span>
   <span id="f000597">The fierce robbers come down from the mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and carry off the little children,</span>
   <span id="f000599">and sell them to the Moors.</span>
   <span id="f000600">The lions lie in wait for the caravans,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and leap upon the camels.</span>
   <span id="f000602">The wild boar roots up the corn in the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000603">and the foxes gnaw the vines upon the hill.</span>
   <span id="f000604">The pirates lay waste the sea-coast and burn the ships of the fishermen,</span>
   <span id="f000605">and take their nets from them.</span>
   <span id="f000606">In the salt-marshes live the lepers;</span>
   <span id="f000607">they have houses of wattled reeds,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and none may come nigh them.</span>
   <span id="f000609">The beggars wander through the cities,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and eat their food with the dogs.</span>
   <span id="f000611">Canst thou make these things not to be?</span>
   <span id="f000612">Wilt thou take the leper for thy bedfellow,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and set the beggar at thy board?</span>
   <span id="f000614">Shall the lion do thy bidding,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and the wild boar obey thee?</span>
   <span id="f000616">Is not He who made misery wiser than thou art?</span>
   <span id="f000617">Wherefore I praise thee not for this that thou hast done,</span>
   <span id="f000618">but I bid thee ride back to the Palace and make thy face glad,</span>
   <span id="f000619">and put on the raiment that beseemeth a king,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and with the crown of gold I will crown thee,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and the sceptre of pearl will I place in thy hand.</span>
   <span id="f000622">And as for thy dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000623">think no more of them.</span>
   <span id="f000624">The burden of this world is too great for one man to bear,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and the world’s sorrow too heavy for one heart to suffer.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">’Sayest thou that in this house?’ said the young King,</span>
   <span id="f000627">and he strode past the Bishop,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and climbed up the steps of the altar,</span>
   <span id="f000629">and stood before the image of Christ.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">He stood before the image of Christ,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and on his right hand and on his left were the marvellous vessels of gold,</span>
   <span id="f000632">the chalice with the yellow wine,</span>
   <span id="f000633">and the vial with the holy oil.</span>
   <span id="f000634">He knelt before the image of Christ,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and the great candles burned brightly by the jewelled shrine,</span>
   <span id="f000636">and the smoke of the incense curled in thin blue wreaths through the dome.</span>
   <span id="f000637">He bowed his head in prayer,</span>
   <span id="f000638">and the priests in their stiff copes crept away from the altar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">And suddenly a wild tumult came from the street outside,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and in entered the nobles with drawn swords and nodding plumes,</span>
   <span id="f000641">and shields of polished steel.</span>
   <span id="f000642">’Where is this dreamer of dreams?’ they cried.</span>
   <span id="f000643">’Where is this King who is apparelled like a beggar – this boy who brings shame upon our state?</span>
   <span id="f000644">Surely we will slay him,</span>
   <span id="f000645">for he is unworthy to rule over us.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">And the young King bowed his head again,</span>
   <span id="f000647">and prayed,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and when he had finished his prayer he rose up,</span>
   <span id="f000649">and turning round he looked at them sadly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">And lo!</span>
   <span id="f000651">through the painted windows came the sunlight streaming upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and the sun-beams wove round him a tissued robe that was fairer than the robe that had been fashioned for his pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000653">The dead staff blossomed,</span>
   <span id="f000654">and bare lilies that were whiter than pearls.</span>
   <span id="f000655">The dry thorn blossomed,</span>
   <span id="f000656">and bare roses that were redder than rubies.</span>
   <span id="f000657">Whiter than fine pearls were the lilies,</span>
   <span id="f000658">and their stems were of bright silver.</span>
   <span id="f000659">Redder than male rubies were the roses,</span>
   <span id="f000660">and their leaves were of beaten gold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000661">He stood there in the raiment of a king,</span>
   <span id="f000662">and the gates of the jewelled shrine flew open,</span>
   <span id="f000663">and from the crystal of the many-rayed monstrance shone a marvellous and mystical light.</span>
   <span id="f000664">He stood there in a king’s raiment,</span>
   <span id="f000665">and the Glory of God filled the place,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and the saints in their carven niches seemed to move.</span>
   <span id="f000667">In the fair raiment of a king he stood before them,</span>
   <span id="f000668">and the organ pealed out its music,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and the trumpeters blew upon their trumpets,</span>
   <span id="f000670">and the singing boys sang.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">And the people fell upon their knees in awe,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and the nobles sheathed their swords and did homage,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and the Bishop’s face grew pale,</span>
   <span id="f000674">and his hands trembled.</span>
   <span id="f000675">’A greater than I hath crowned thee,’ he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and he knelt before him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">And the young King came down from the high altar,</span>
   <span id="f000678">and passed home through the midst of the people.</span>
   <span id="f000679">But no man dared look upon his face,</span>
   <span id="f000680">for it was like the face of an angel.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

