<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>mb</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Flappers and Philosophers</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">The Cut-Glass Bowl</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">There was a rough stone age and a smooth stone age and a bronze age,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and many years afterward a cut-glass age.</span>
   <span id="f000010">In the cut-glass age,</span>
   <span id="f000011">when young ladies had persuaded young men with long,</span>
   <span id="f000012">curly mustaches to marry them,</span>
   <span id="f000013">they sat down several months afterward and wrote thank-you notes for all sorts of cut-glass presents – punch-bowls,</span>
   <span id="f000014">finger-bowls,</span>
   <span id="f000015">dinner-glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000016">wine-glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000017">ice-cream dishes,</span>
   <span id="f000018">bonbon dishes,</span>
   <span id="f000019">decanters,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and vases – for,</span>
   <span id="f000021">though cut glass was nothing new in the nineties,</span>
   <span id="f000022">it was then especially busy reflecting the dazzling light of fashion from the Back Bay to the fastnesses of the Middle West.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">After the wedding the punch-bowls were arranged in the sideboard with the big bowl in the centre;</span>
   <span id="f000024">the glasses were set up in the china-closet;</span>
   <span id="f000025">the candlesticks were put at both ends of things – and then the struggle for existence began.</span>
   <span id="f000026">The bonbon dish lost its little handle and became a pin-tray upstairs;</span>
   <span id="f000027">a promenading cat knocked the little bowl off the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and the hired girl chipped the middle-sized one with the sugar-dish;</span>
   <span id="f000029">then the wine-glasses succumbed to leg fractures,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and even the dinner-glasses disappeared one by one like the ten little niggers,</span>
   <span id="f000031">the last one ending up,</span>
   <span id="f000032">scarred and maimed as a tooth-brush holder among other shabby genteels on the bathroom shelf.</span>
   <span id="f000033">But by the time all this had happened the cut-glass age was over,</span>
   <span id="f000034">anyway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">It was well past its first glory on the day the curious Mrs.&#160;Roger Fairboalt came to see the beautiful Mrs.&#160;Harold Piper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“My dear,” said the curious Mrs.&#160;Roger Fairboalt,</span>
   <span id="f000037">“I LOVE your house.</span>
   <span id="f000038">I think it’s QUITE artistic.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“I’m SO glad,” said the beautiful Mrs.&#160;Harold Piper,</span>
   <span id="f000040">lights appearing in her young,</span>
   <span id="f000041">dark eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000042">“and you MUST come often.</span>
   <span id="f000043">I’m almost ALWAYS alone in the afternoon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">Mrs.&#160;Fairboalt would have liked to remark that she didn’t believe this at all and couldn’t see how she’d be expected to – it was all over town that Mr.&#160;Freddy Gedney had been dropping in on Mrs.&#160;Piper five afternoons a week for the past six months.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Mrs.&#160;Fairboalt was at that ripe age where she distrusted all beautiful women –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“I love the dining-room MOST,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000047">“all that MARVELLOUS china,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and that HUGE cut-glass bowl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">Mrs.&#160;Piper laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000050">so prettily that Mrs.&#160;Fairboalt’s lingering reservations about the Freddy Gedney story quite vanished.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000052">that big bowl!” Mrs.&#160;Piper’s mouth forming the words was a vivid rose petal.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“There’s a story about that bowl – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“Oh – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">“You remember young Carleton Canby?</span>
   <span id="f000056">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000057">he was very attentive at one time,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and the night I told him I was going to marry Harold,</span>
   <span id="f000059">seven years ago in ninety-two,</span>
   <span id="f000060">he drew himself way up and said:</span>
   <span id="f000061">’Evylyn,</span>
   <span id="f000062">I’m going to give a present that’s as hard as you are and as beautiful and as empty and as easy to see through.’ He frightened me a little – his eyes were so black.</span>
   <span id="f000063">I thought he was going to deed me a haunted house or something that would explode when you opened it.</span>
   <span id="f000064">That bowl came,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and of course it’s beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Its diameter or circumference or something is two and a half feet – or perhaps it’s three and a half.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000068">the sideboard is really too small for it;</span>
   <span id="f000069">it sticks way out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“My DEAR,</span>
   <span id="f000071">wasn’t that ODD!</span>
   <span id="f000072">And he left town about then didn’t he?” Mrs.&#160;Fairboalt was scribbling italicized notes on her memory – “hard,</span>
   <span id="f000073">beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000074">empty,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and easy to see through.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000077">he went West – or South – or somewhere,” answered Mrs.&#160;Piper,</span>
   <span id="f000078">radiating that divine vagueness that helps to lift beauty out of time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">Mrs.&#160;Fairboalt drew on her gloves,</span>
   <span id="f000080">approving the effect of largeness given by the open sweep from the spacious music-room through the library,</span>
   <span id="f000081">disclosing a part of the dining-room beyond.</span>
   <span id="f000082">It was really the nicest smaller house in town,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and Mrs.&#160;Piper had talked of moving to a larger one on Devereaux Avenue.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Harold Piper must be COINING money.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">As she turned into the sidewalk under the gathering autumn dusk she assumed that disapproving,</span>
   <span id="f000086">faintly unpleasant expression that almost all successful women of forty wear on the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">If <em>I</em> were Harold Piper,</span>
   <span id="f000088">she thought,</span>
   <span id="f000089">I’d spend a LITTLE less time on business and a little more time at home.</span>
   <span id="f000090">Some FRIEND should speak to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">But if Mrs.&#160;Fairboalt had considered it a successful afternoon she would have named it a triumph had she waited two minutes longer.</span>
   <span id="f000092">For while she was still a black receding figure a hundred yards down the street,</span>
   <span id="f000093">a very good-looking distraught young man turned up the walk to the Piper house.</span>
   <span id="f000094">Mrs.&#160;Piper answered the door-bell herself,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and with a rather dismayed expression led him quickly into the library.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“I had to see you,” he began wildly;</span>
   <span id="f000097">“your note played the devil with me.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Did Harold frighten you into this?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">She shook her head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“I’m through,</span>
   <span id="f000101">Fred,” she said slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and her lips had never looked to him so much like tearings from a rose.</span>
   <span id="f000103">“He came home last night sick with it.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Jessie Piper’s sense of duty was to much for her,</span>
   <span id="f000105">so she went down to his office and told him.</span>
   <span id="f000106">He was hurt and – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000107">I can’t help seeing it his way,</span>
   <span id="f000108">Fred.</span>
   <span id="f000109">He says we’ve been club gossip all summer and he didn’t know it,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and now he understands snatches of conversation he’s caught and veiled hints people have dropped about me.</span>
   <span id="f000111">He’s mighty angry,</span>
   <span id="f000112">Fred,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and he loves me and I love him – rather.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">Gedney nodded slowly and half closed his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“Yes,” he said “yes,</span>
   <span id="f000116">my trouble’s like yours.</span>
   <span id="f000117">I can see other people’s points of view too plainly.” His gray eyes met her dark ones frankly.</span>
   <span id="f000118">“The blessed thing’s over.</span>
   <span id="f000119">My God,</span>
   <span id="f000120">Evylyn,</span>
   <span id="f000121">I’ve been sitting down at the office all day looking at the outside of your letter,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and looking at it and looking at it – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“You’ve got to go,</span>
   <span id="f000124">Fred,” she said steadily,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and the slight emphasis of hurry in her voice was a new thrust for him.</span>
   <span id="f000126">“I gave him my word of honor I wouldn’t see you.</span>
   <span id="f000127">I know just how far I can go with Harold,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and being here with you this evening is one of the things I can’t do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">They were still standing,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and as she spoke she made a little movement toward the door.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Gedney looked at her miserably,</span>
   <span id="f000132">trying,</span>
   <span id="f000133">here at the end,</span>
   <span id="f000134">to treasure up a last picture of her – and then suddenly both of them were stiffened into marble at the sound of steps on the walk outside.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Instantly her arm reached out grasping the lapel of his coat – half urged,</span>
   <span id="f000136">half swung him through the big door into the dark dining-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“I’ll make him go up-stairs,” she whispered close to his ear;</span>
   <span id="f000138">“don’t move till you hear him on the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000139">Then go out the front way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">Then he was alone listening as she greeted her husband in the hall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">Harold Piper was thirty-six,</span>
   <span id="f000142">nine years older than his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000143">He was handsome – with marginal notes:</span>
   <span id="f000144">these being eyes that were too close together,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and a certain woodenness when his face was in repose.</span>
   <span id="f000146">His attitude toward this Gedney matter was typical of all his attitudes.</span>
   <span id="f000147">He had told Evylyn that he considered the subject closed and would never reproach her nor allude to it in any form;</span>
   <span id="f000148">and he told himself that this was rather a big way of looking at it – that she was not a little impressed.</span>
   <span id="f000149">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000150">like all men who are preoccupied with their own broadness,</span>
   <span id="f000151">he was exceptionally narrow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">He greeted Evylyn with emphasized cordiality this evening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“You’ll have to hurry and dress,</span>
   <span id="f000154">Harold,” she said eagerly;</span>
   <span id="f000155">“we’re going to the Bronsons’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">He nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“It doesn’t take me long to dress,</span>
   <span id="f000158">dear,” and,</span>
   <span id="f000159">his words trailing off,</span>
   <span id="f000160">he walked on into the library.</span>
   <span id="f000161">Evylyn’s heart clattered loudly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Harold – ” she began,</span>
   <span id="f000163">with a little catch in her voice,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and followed him in.</span>
   <span id="f000165">He was lighting a cigarette.</span>
   <span id="f000166">“You’ll have to hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000167">Harold,” she finished,</span>
   <span id="f000168">standing in the doorway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“Why?” he asked a trifle impatiently;</span>
   <span id="f000170">“you’re not dressed yourself yet,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Evie.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">He stretched out in a Morris chair and unfolded a newspaper.</span>
   <span id="f000173">With a sinking sensation Evylyn saw that this meant at least ten minutes – and Gedney was standing breathless in the next room.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Supposing Harold decided that before he went upstairs he wanted a drink from the decanter on the sideboard.</span>
   <span id="f000175">Then it occurred to her to forestall this contingency by bringing him the decanter and a glass.</span>
   <span id="f000176">She dreaded calling his attention to the dining-room in any way,</span>
   <span id="f000177">but she couldn’t risk the other chance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">But at the same moment Harold rose and,</span>
   <span id="f000179">throwing his paper down,</span>
   <span id="f000180">came toward her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“Evie,</span>
   <span id="f000182">dear,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000183">bending and putting his arms about her,</span>
   <span id="f000184">“I hope you’re not thinking about last night – ” She moved close to him,</span>
   <span id="f000185">trembling.</span>
   <span id="f000186">“I know,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000187">“it was just an imprudent friendship on your part.</span>
   <span id="f000188">We all make mistakes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">Evylyn hardly heard him.</span>
   <span id="f000190">She was wondering if by sheer clinging to him she could draw him out and up the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000191">She thought of playing sick,</span>
   <span id="f000192">asking to be carried up – unfortunately she knew he would lay her on the couch and bring her whiskey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">Suddenly her nervous tension moved up a last impossible notch.</span>
   <span id="f000194">She had heard a very faint but quite unmistakable creak from the floor of the dining room.</span>
   <span id="f000195">Fred was trying to get out the back way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">Then her heart took a flying leap as a hollow ringing note like a gong echoed and re-echoed through the house.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Gedney’s arm had struck the big cut-glass bowl.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“What’s that!” cried Harold.</span>
   <span id="f000199">“Who’s there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">She clung to him but he broke away,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and the room seemed to crash about her ears.</span>
   <span id="f000202">She heard the pantry-door swing open,</span>
   <span id="f000203">a scuffle,</span>
   <span id="f000204">the rattle of a tin pan,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and in wild despair she rushed into the kitchen and pulled up the gas.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Her husband’s arm slowly unwound from Gedney’s neck,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and he stood there very still,</span>
   <span id="f000208">first in amazement,</span>
   <span id="f000209">then with pain dawning in his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“My golly!” he said in bewilderment,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and then repeated:</span>
   <span id="f000212">“My GOLLY!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">He turned as if to jump again at Gedney,</span>
   <span id="f000214">stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000215">his muscles visibly relaxed,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and he gave a bitter little laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“You people – you people – ” Evylyn’s arms were around him and her eyes were pleading with him frantically,</span>
   <span id="f000218">but he pushed her away and sank dazed into a kitchen chair,</span>
   <span id="f000219">his face like porcelain.</span>
   <span id="f000220">“You’ve been doing things to me,</span>
   <span id="f000221">Evylyn.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000223">you little devil!</span>
   <span id="f000224">You little DEVIL!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">She had never felt so sorry for him;</span>
   <span id="f000226">she had never loved him so much.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“It wasn’t her fault,” said Gedney rather humbly.</span>
   <span id="f000228">“I just came.” But Piper shook his head,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and his expression when he stared up was as if some physical accident had jarred his mind into a temporary inability to function.</span>
   <span id="f000230">His eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000231">grown suddenly pitiful,</span>
   <span id="f000232">struck a deep,</span>
   <span id="f000233">unsounded chord in Evylyn – and simultaneously a furious anger surged in her.</span>
   <span id="f000234">She felt her eyelids burning;</span>
   <span id="f000235">she stamped her foot violently;</span>
   <span id="f000236">her hands scurried nervously over the table as if searching for a weapon,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and then she flung herself wildly at Gedney.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“Get out!” she screamed,</span>
   <span id="f000239">dark eves blazing,</span>
   <span id="f000240">little fists beating helplessly on his outstretched arm.</span>
   <span id="f000241">“You did this!</span>
   <span id="f000242">Get out of here – get out – get OUT!</span>
   <span id="f000243">GET OUT!”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000244">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000245">Concerning Mrs.&#160;Harold Piper at thirty-five,</span>
   <span id="f000246">opinion was divided – women said she was still handsome;</span>
   <span id="f000247">men said she was pretty no longer.</span>
   <span id="f000248">And this was probably because the qualities in her beauty that women had feared and men had followed had vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Her eyes were still as large and as dark and as sad,</span>
   <span id="f000250">but the mystery had departed;</span>
   <span id="f000251">their sadness was no longer eternal,</span>
   <span id="f000252">only human,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and she had developed a habit,</span>
   <span id="f000254">when she was startled or annoyed,</span>
   <span id="f000255">of twitching her brows together and blinking several times.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Her mouth also had lost:</span>
   <span id="f000257">the red had receded and the faint down-turning of its corners when she smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000258">that had added to the sadness of the eyes and been vaguely mocking and beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000259">was quite gone.</span>
   <span id="f000260">When she smiled now the corners of her lips turned up.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Back in the days when she revelled in her own beauty Evylyn had enjoyed that smile of hers – she had accentuated it.</span>
   <span id="f000262">When she stopped accentuating it,</span>
   <span id="f000263">it faded out and the last of her mystery with it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">Evylyn had ceased accentuating her smile within a month after the Freddy Gedney affair.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Externally things had gone an very much as they had before.</span>
   <span id="f000266">But in those few minutes during which she had discovered how much she loved her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000267">Evylyn had realized how indelibly she had hurt him.</span>
   <span id="f000268">For a month she struggled against aching silences,</span>
   <span id="f000269">wild reproaches and accusations – she pled with him,</span>
   <span id="f000270">made quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000271">pitiful little love to him,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and he laughed at her bitterly – and then she,</span>
   <span id="f000273">too,</span>
   <span id="f000274">slipped gradually into silence and a shadowy,</span>
   <span id="f000275">impenetrable barrier dropped between them.</span>
   <span id="f000276">The surge of love that had risen in her she lavished on Donald,</span>
   <span id="f000277">her little boy,</span>
   <span id="f000278">realizing him almost wonderingly as a part of her life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">The next year a piling up of mutual interests and responsibilities and some stray flicker from the past brought husband and wife together again – but after a rather pathetic flood of passion Evylyn realized that her great opportunity was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000280">There simply wasn’t anything left.</span>
   <span id="f000281">She might have been youth and love for both – but that time of silence had slowly dried up the springs of affection and her own desire to drink again of them was dead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">She began for the first time to seek women friends,</span>
   <span id="f000283">to prefer books she had read before,</span>
   <span id="f000284">to sew a little where she could watch her two children to whom she was devoted.</span>
   <span id="f000285">She worried about little things – if she saw crumbs on the dinner-table her mind drifted off the conversation:</span>
   <span id="f000286">she was receding gradually into middle age.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">Her thirty-fifth birthday had been an exceptionally busy one,</span>
   <span id="f000288">for they were entertaining on short notice that night,</span>
   <span id="f000289">as she stood in her bedroom window in the late afternoon she discovered that she was quite tired.</span>
   <span id="f000290">Ten years before she would have lain down and slept,</span>
   <span id="f000291">but now she had a feeling that things needed watching:</span>
   <span id="f000292">maids were cleaning down-stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000293">bric-à-brac was all over the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and there were sure to be grocery-men that had to be talked to imperatively – and then there was a letter to write Donald,</span>
   <span id="f000295">who was fourteen and in his first year away at school.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">She had nearly decided to lie down,</span>
   <span id="f000297">nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000298">when she heard a sudden familiar signal from little Julie down-stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000299">She compressed her lips,</span>
   <span id="f000300">her brows twitched together,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and she blinked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">“Julie!” she called.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“Ah-h-h-ow!” prolonged Julie plaintively.</span>
   <span id="f000304">Then the voice of Hilda,</span>
   <span id="f000305">the second maid,</span>
   <span id="f000306">floated up the stairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">“She cut herself a little,</span>
   <span id="f000308">Mis’ Piper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">Evylyn flew to her sewing-basket,</span>
   <span id="f000310">rummaged until she found a torn handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and hurried downstairs.</span>
   <span id="f000312">In a moment Julie was crying in her arms as she searched for the cut,</span>
   <span id="f000313">faint,</span>
   <span id="f000314">disparaging evidences of which appeared on Julie’s dress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“My THU-umb!” explained Julie.</span>
   <span id="f000316">“Oh-h-h-h,</span>
   <span id="f000317">t’urts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“It was the bowl here,</span>
   <span id="f000319">the he one,” said Hilda apologetically.</span>
   <span id="f000320">“It was waitin’ on the floor while I polished the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and Julie come along an’ went to foolin’ with it.</span>
   <span id="f000322">She yust scratch herself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">Evylyn frowned heavily at Hilda,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and twisting Julie decisively in her lap,</span>
   <span id="f000325">began tearing strips of the handkerchief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Now – let’s see it,</span>
   <span id="f000327">dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">Julie held it up and Evelyn pounced.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">“There!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">Julie surveyed her swathed thumb doubtfully.</span>
   <span id="f000331">She crooked it;</span>
   <span id="f000332">it waggled.</span>
   <span id="f000333">A pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000334">interested look appeared in her tear-stained face.</span>
   <span id="f000335">She sniffled and waggled it again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“You PRECIOUS!” cried Evylyn and kissed her,</span>
   <span id="f000337">but before she left the room she levelled another frown at Hilda.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Careless!</span>
   <span id="f000339">Servants all that way nowadays.</span>
   <span id="f000340">If she could get a good Irishwoman – but you couldn’t any more – and these Swedes –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">At five o’clock Harold arrived and,</span>
   <span id="f000342">coming up to her room,</span>
   <span id="f000343">threatened in a suspiciously jovial tone to kiss her thirty-five times for her birthday.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Evylyn resisted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“You’ve been drinking,” she said shortly,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and then added qualitatively,</span>
   <span id="f000347">“a little.</span>
   <span id="f000348">You know I loathe the smell of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“Evie,” he said after a pause,</span>
   <span id="f000350">seating himself in a chair by the window,</span>
   <span id="f000351">“I can tell you something now.</span>
   <span id="f000352">I guess you’ve known things haven’t beep going quite right down-town.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">She was standing at the window combing her hair,</span>
   <span id="f000354">but at these words she turned and looked at him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“How do you mean?</span>
   <span id="f000356">You’ve always said there was room for more than one wholesale hardware house in town.” Her voice expressed some alarm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“There WAS,” said Harold significantly,</span>
   <span id="f000358">“but this Clarence Ahearn is a smart man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“I was surprised when you said he was coming to dinner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“Evie,” he went on,</span>
   <span id="f000361">with another slap at his knee,</span>
   <span id="f000362">“after January first ’The Clarence Ahearn Company’ becomes ’The Ahearn,</span>
   <span id="f000363">Piper Company’ – and ’Piper Brothers’ as a company ceases to exist.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">Evylyn was startled.</span>
   <span id="f000365">The sound of his name in second place was somehow hostile to her;</span>
   <span id="f000366">still he appeared jubilant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">“I don’t understand,</span>
   <span id="f000368">Harold.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000370">Evie,</span>
   <span id="f000371">Ahearn has been fooling around with Marx.</span>
   <span id="f000372">If those two had combined we’d have been the little fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000373">struggling along,</span>
   <span id="f000374">picking up smaller orders,</span>
   <span id="f000375">hanging back on risks.</span>
   <span id="f000376">It’s a question of capital,</span>
   <span id="f000377">Evie,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and ’Ahearn and Marx’ would have had the business just like ’Ahearn and Piper’ is going to now.” He paused and coughed and a little cloud of whiskey floated up to her nostrils.</span>
   <span id="f000379">“Tell you the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000380">Evie,</span>
   <span id="f000381">I’ve suspected that Ahearn’s wife had something to do with it.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Ambitious little lady,</span>
   <span id="f000383">I’m told.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Guess she knew the Marxes couldn’t help her much here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">“Is she – common?” asked Evie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">“Never met her,</span>
   <span id="f000387">I’m sure – but I don’t doubt it.</span>
   <span id="f000388">Clarence Ahearn’s name’s been up at the Country Club five months – no action taken.” He waved his hand disparagingly.</span>
   <span id="f000389">“Ahearn and I had lunch together to-day and just about clinched it,</span>
   <span id="f000390">so I thought it’d be nice to have him and his wife up to-night – just have nine,</span>
   <span id="f000391">mostly family.</span>
   <span id="f000392">After all,</span>
   <span id="f000393">it’s a big thing for me,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and of course we’ll have to see something of them,</span>
   <span id="f000395">Evie.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“Yes,” said Evie thoughtfully,</span>
   <span id="f000397">“I suppose we will.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">Evylyn was not disturbed over the social end of it – but the idea of “Piper Brothers” becoming “The Ahearn,</span>
   <span id="f000399">Piper Company” startled her.</span>
   <span id="f000400">It seemed like going down in the world.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">Half an hour later,</span>
   <span id="f000402">as she began to dress for dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000403">she heard his voice from down-stairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000405">Evie,</span>
   <span id="f000406">come down!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">She went out into the hall and called over the banister:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">“I want you to help me make some of that punch before dinner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">Hurriedly rehooking her dress,</span>
   <span id="f000411">she descended the stairs and found him grouping the essentials on the dining-room table.</span>
   <span id="f000412">She went to the sideboard and,</span>
   <span id="f000413">lifting one of the bowls,</span>
   <span id="f000414">carried it over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000416">no,” he protested,</span>
   <span id="f000417">“let’s use the big one.</span>
   <span id="f000418">There’ll be Ahearn and his wife and you and I and Milton,</span>
   <span id="f000419">that’s five,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and Tom and Jessie,</span>
   <span id="f000421">that’s seven:</span>
   <span id="f000422">and your sister and Joe Ambler,</span>
   <span id="f000423">that’s nine.</span>
   <span id="f000424">You don’t know how quick that stuff goes when YOU make it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“We’ll use this bowl,” she insisted.</span>
   <span id="f000426">“It’ll hold plenty.</span>
   <span id="f000427">You know how Tom is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">Tom Lowrie,</span>
   <span id="f000429">husband to Jessie,</span>
   <span id="f000430">Harold’s first cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000431">was rather inclined to finish anything in a liquid way that he began.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">Harold shook his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“Don’t be foolish.</span>
   <span id="f000434">That one holds only about three quarts and there’s nine of us,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and the servants’ll want some – and it isn’t strong punch.</span>
   <span id="f000436">It’s so much more cheerful to have a lot,</span>
   <span id="f000437">Evie;</span>
   <span id="f000438">we don’t have to drink all of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">“I say the small one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">Again he shook his head obstinately.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000442">be reasonable.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“I AM reasonable,” she said shortly.</span>
   <span id="f000444">“I don’t want any drunken men in the house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“Who said you did?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">“Then use the small bowl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000448">Evie – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">He grasped the smaller bowl to lift it back.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Instantly her hands were on it,</span>
   <span id="f000451">holding it down.</span>
   <span id="f000452">There was a momentary struggle,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000454">with a little exasperated grunt,</span>
   <span id="f000455">he raised his side,</span>
   <span id="f000456">slipped it from her fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and carried it to the sideboard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">She looked at him and tried to make her expression contemptuous,</span>
   <span id="f000459">but he only laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Acknowledging her defeat but disclaiming all future interest in the punch,</span>
   <span id="f000461">she left the room.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000462">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000463">At seven-thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000464">her cheeks glowing and her high-piled hair gleaming with a suspicion of brilliantine,</span>
   <span id="f000465">Evylyn descended the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Mrs.&#160;Ahearn,</span>
   <span id="f000467">a little woman concealing a slight nervousness under red hair and an extreme Empire gown,</span>
   <span id="f000468">greeted her volubly.</span>
   <span id="f000469">Evelyn disliked her on the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000470">but the husband she rather approved of.</span>
   <span id="f000471">He had keen blue eyes and a natural gift of pleasing people that might have made him,</span>
   <span id="f000472">socially,</span>
   <span id="f000473">had he not so obviously committed the blunder of marrying too early in his career.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">“I’m glad to know Piper’s wife,” he said simply.</span>
   <span id="f000475">“It looks as though your husband and I are going to see a lot of each other in the future.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">She bowed,</span>
   <span id="f000477">smiled graciously,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and turned to greet the others:</span>
   <span id="f000479">Milton Piper,</span>
   <span id="f000480">Harold’s quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000481">unassertive younger brother;</span>
   <span id="f000482">the two Lowries,</span>
   <span id="f000483">Jessie and Tom;</span>
   <span id="f000484">Irene,</span>
   <span id="f000485">her own unmarried sister;</span>
   <span id="f000486">and finally Joe Ambler,</span>
   <span id="f000487">a confirmed bachelor and Irene’s perennial beau.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">Harold led the way into dinner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">“We’re having a punch evening,” he announced jovially – Evylyn saw that he had already sampled his concoction – “so there won’t be any cocktails except the punch.</span>
   <span id="f000490">It’s m’ wife’s greatest achievement,</span>
   <span id="f000491">Mrs.&#160;Ahearn;</span>
   <span id="f000492">she’ll give you the recipe if you want it;</span>
   <span id="f000493">but owing to a slight” – he caught his wife’s eye and paused – “to a slight indisposition;</span>
   <span id="f000494">I’m responsible for this batch.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Here’s how!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">All through dinner there was punch,</span>
   <span id="f000497">and Evylyn,</span>
   <span id="f000498">noticing that Ahearn and Milton Piper and all the women were shaking their heads negatively at the maid,</span>
   <span id="f000499">knew she had been right about the bowl;</span>
   <span id="f000500">it was still half full.</span>
   <span id="f000501">She resolved to caution Harold directly afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000502">but when the women left the table Mrs.&#160;Ahearn cornered her,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and she found herself talking cities and dressmakers with a polite show of interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">“We’ve moved around a lot,” chattered Mrs.&#160;Ahearn,</span>
   <span id="f000505">her red head nodding violently.</span>
   <span id="f000506">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000507">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000508">we’ve never stayed so long in a town before – but I do hope we’re here for good.</span>
   <span id="f000509">I like it here;</span>
   <span id="f000510">don’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000512">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000513">I’ve always lived here,</span>
   <span id="f000514">so,</span>
   <span id="f000515">naturally – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000517">that’s true,” said Mrs.&#160;Ahearn and laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000518">Clarence always used to tell me he had to have a wife he could come home to and say:</span>
   <span id="f000519">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000520">we’re going to Chicago to-morrow to live,</span>
   <span id="f000521">so pack up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">“I got so I never expected to live ANYwhere.” She laughed her little laugh again;</span>
   <span id="f000523">Evylyn suspected that it was her society laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“Your husband is a very able man,</span>
   <span id="f000525">I imagine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000527">yes,” Mrs.&#160;Ahearn assured her eagerly.</span>
   <span id="f000528">“He’s brainy,</span>
   <span id="f000529">Clarence is.</span>
   <span id="f000530">Ideas and enthusiasm,</span>
   <span id="f000531">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000532">Finds out what he wants and then goes and gets it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">Evylyn nodded.</span>
   <span id="f000534">She was wondering if the men were still drinking punch back in the dining-room.</span>
   <span id="f000535">Mrs.&#160;Ahearn’s history kept unfolding jerkily,</span>
   <span id="f000536">but Evylyn had ceased to listen.</span>
   <span id="f000537">The first odor of massed cigars began to drift in.</span>
   <span id="f000538">It wasn’t really a large house,</span>
   <span id="f000539">she reflected;</span>
   <span id="f000540">on an evening like this the library sometimes grew blue with smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and next day one had to leave the windows open for hours to air the heavy staleness out of the curtains.</span>
   <span id="f000542">Perhaps this partnership might…</span>
   <span id="f000543">she began to speculate on a new house…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">Mrs.&#160;Ahearn’s voice drifted in on her:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">“I really would like the recipe if you have it written down somewhere – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">Then there was a sound of chairs in the dining-room and the men strolled in.</span>
   <span id="f000547">Evylyn saw at once that her worst fears were realized.</span>
   <span id="f000548">Harold’s face was flushed and his words ran together at the ends of sentences,</span>
   <span id="f000549">while Tom Lowrie lurched when he walked and narrowly missed Irene’s lap when he tried to sink onto the couch beside her.</span>
   <span id="f000550">He sat there blinking dazedly at the company.</span>
   <span id="f000551">Evylyn found herself blinking back at him,</span>
   <span id="f000552">but she saw no humor in it.</span>
   <span id="f000553">Joe Ambler was smiling contentedly and purring on his cigar.</span>
   <span id="f000554">Only Ahearn and Milton Piper seemed unaffected.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“It’s a pretty fine town,</span>
   <span id="f000556">Ahearn,” said Ambler,</span>
   <span id="f000557">“you’ll find that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">“I’ve found it so,” said Ahearn pleasantly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">“You find it more,</span>
   <span id="f000560">Ahearn,” said Harold,</span>
   <span id="f000561">nodding emphatically “’f I’ve an’thin’ do ’th it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">He soared into a eulogy of the city,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and Evylyn wondered uncomfortably if it bored every one as it bored her.</span>
   <span id="f000564">Apparently not.</span>
   <span id="f000565">They were all listening attentively.</span>
   <span id="f000566">Evylyn broke in at the first gap.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000567">“Where’ve you been living,</span>
   <span id="f000568">Mr.&#160;Ahearn?” she asked interestedly.</span>
   <span id="f000569">Then she remembered that Mrs.&#160;Ahearn had told her,</span>
   <span id="f000570">but it didn’t matter.</span>
   <span id="f000571">Harold mustn’t talk so much.</span>
   <span id="f000572">He was such an ASS when he’d been drinking.</span>
   <span id="f000573">But he plopped directly back in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">“Tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000575">Ahearn.</span>
   <span id="f000576">Firs’ you wanna get a house up here on the hill.</span>
   <span id="f000577">Get Stearne house or Ridgeway house.</span>
   <span id="f000578">Wanna have it so people say:</span>
   <span id="f000579">’There’s Ahearn house.’ Solid,</span>
   <span id="f000580">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000581">tha’s effec’ it gives.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">Evylyn flushed.</span>
   <span id="f000583">This didn’t sound right at all.</span>
   <span id="f000584">Still Ahearn didn’t seem to notice anything amiss,</span>
   <span id="f000585">only nodded gravely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“Have you been looking – ” But her words trailed off unheard as Harold’s voice boomed on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">“Get house – tha’s start.</span>
   <span id="f000588">Then you get know people.</span>
   <span id="f000589">Snobbish town first toward outsider,</span>
   <span id="f000590">but not long – after know you.</span>
   <span id="f000591">People like you” – he indicated Ahearn and his wife with a sweeping gesture – “all right.</span>
   <span id="f000592">Cordial as an’thin’ once get by first barrer-bar-barrer – ” He swallowed,</span>
   <span id="f000593">and then said “barrier,” repeated it masterfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">Evylyn looked appealingly at her brother-in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000595">but before he could intercede a thick mumble had come crowding out of Tom Lowrie,</span>
   <span id="f000596">hindered by the dead cigar which he gripped firmly with his teeth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">“Huma uma ho huma ahdy um – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">“What?” demanded Harold earnestly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">Resignedly and with difficulty Tom removed the cigar – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000600">he removed part of it,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and then blew the remainder with a WHUT sound across the room,</span>
   <span id="f000602">where it landed liquidly and limply in Mrs.&#160;Ahearn’s lap.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">“Beg pardon,” he mumbled,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and rose with the vague intention of going after it.</span>
   <span id="f000605">Milton’s hand on his coat collapsed him in time,</span>
   <span id="f000606">and Mrs.&#160;Ahearn not ungracefully flounced the tobacco from her skirt to the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000607">never once looking at it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000608">“I was sayin’,” continued Tom thickly,</span>
   <span id="f000609">“’fore ’at happened,” – he waved his hand apologetically toward Mrs.&#160;Ahearn – “I was sayin’ I heard all truth that Country Club matter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">Milton leaned and whispered something to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000611">“Lemme ’lone,” he said petulantly;</span>
   <span id="f000612">“know what I’m doin’.</span>
   <span id="f000613">’Ats what they came for.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">Evylyn sat there in a panic,</span>
   <span id="f000615">trying to make her mouth form words.</span>
   <span id="f000616">She saw her sister’s sardonic expression and Mrs.&#160;Ahearn’s face turning a vivid red.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Ahearn was looking down at his watch-chain,</span>
   <span id="f000618">fingering it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">“I heard who’s been keepin’ y’ out,</span>
   <span id="f000620">an’ he’s not a bit better’n you.</span>
   <span id="f000621">I can fix whole damn thing up.</span>
   <span id="f000622">Would’ve before,</span>
   <span id="f000623">but I didn’t know you.</span>
   <span id="f000624">Harol’ tol’ me you felt bad about the thing – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">Milton Piper rose suddenly and awkwardly to his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000626">In a second every one was standing tensely and Milton was saying something very hurriedly about having to go early,</span>
   <span id="f000627">and the Ahearns were listening with eager intentness.</span>
   <span id="f000628">Then Mrs.&#160;Ahearn swallowed and turned with a forced smile toward Jessie.</span>
   <span id="f000629">Evylyn saw Tom lurch forward and put his hand on Ahearns shoulder – and suddenly she was listening to a new,</span>
   <span id="f000630">anxious voice at her elbow,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and,</span>
   <span id="f000632">turning,</span>
   <span id="f000633">found Hilda,</span>
   <span id="f000634">the second maid.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">“Please,</span>
   <span id="f000636">Mis’ Piper,</span>
   <span id="f000637">I tank Yulie got her hand poisoned.</span>
   <span id="f000638">It’s all swole up and her cheeks is hot and she’s moanin’ an’ groanin’ – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">“Julie is?” Evylyn asked sharply.</span>
   <span id="f000640">The party suddenly receded.</span>
   <span id="f000641">She turned quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000642">sought with her eyes for Mrs.&#160;Ahearn,</span>
   <span id="f000643">slipped toward her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">“If you’ll excuse me,</span>
   <span id="f000645">Mrs.&#160;– ” She had momentarily forgotten the name,</span>
   <span id="f000646">but she went right on:</span>
   <span id="f000647">“My little girl’s been taken sick.</span>
   <span id="f000648">I’ll be down when I can.” She turned and ran quickly up the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000649">retaining a confused picture of rays of cigar smoke and a loud discussion in the centre of the room that seemed to be developing into an argument.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">Switching on the light in the nursery,</span>
   <span id="f000651">she found Julie tossing feverishly and giving out odd little cries.</span>
   <span id="f000652">She put her hand against the cheeks.</span>
   <span id="f000653">They were burning.</span>
   <span id="f000654">With an exclamation she followed the arm down under the cover until she found the hand.</span>
   <span id="f000655">Hilda was right.</span>
   <span id="f000656">The whole thumb was swollen to the wrist and in the centre was a little inflamed sore.</span>
   <span id="f000657">Blood-poisoning!</span>
   <span id="f000658">her mind cried in terror.</span>
   <span id="f000659">The bandage had come off the cut and she’d gotten something in it.</span>
   <span id="f000660">She’d cut it at three o’clock – it was now nearly eleven.</span>
   <span id="f000661">Eight hours.</span>
   <span id="f000662">Blood-poisoning couldn’t possibly develop so soon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">She rushed to the ’phone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">Doctor Martin across the street was out.</span>
   <span id="f000665">Doctor Foulke,</span>
   <span id="f000666">their family physician,</span>
   <span id="f000667">didn’t answer.</span>
   <span id="f000668">She racked her brains and in desperation called her throat specialist,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and bit her lip furiously while he looked up the numbers of two physicians.</span>
   <span id="f000670">During that interminable moment she thought she heard loud voices down-stairs – but she seemed to be in another world now.</span>
   <span id="f000671">After fifteen minutes she located a physician who sounded angry and sulky at being called out of bed.</span>
   <span id="f000672">She ran back to the nursery and,</span>
   <span id="f000673">looking at the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000674">found it was somewhat more swollen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000676">God!” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and kneeling beside the bed began smoothing back Julie’s hair over and over.</span>
   <span id="f000678">With a vague idea of getting some hot water,</span>
   <span id="f000679">she rose and stared toward the door,</span>
   <span id="f000680">but the lace of her dress caught in the bed-rail and she fell forward on her hands and knees.</span>
   <span id="f000681">She struggled up and jerked frantically at the lace.</span>
   <span id="f000682">The bed moved and Julie groaned.</span>
   <span id="f000683">Then more quietly but with suddenly fumbling fingers she found the pleat in front,</span>
   <span id="f000684">tore the whole pannier completely off,</span>
   <span id="f000685">and rushed from the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">Out in the hall she heard a single loud,</span>
   <span id="f000687">insistent voice,</span>
   <span id="f000688">but as she reached the head of the stairs it ceased and an outer door banged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000689">The music-room came into view.</span>
   <span id="f000690">Only Harold and Milton were there,</span>
   <span id="f000691">the former leaning against a chair,</span>
   <span id="f000692">his face very pale,</span>
   <span id="f000693">his collar open,</span>
   <span id="f000694">and his mouth moving loosely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000695">“What’s the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">Milton looked at her anxiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000697">“There was a little trouble – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">Then Harold saw her and,</span>
   <span id="f000699">straightening up with an effort,</span>
   <span id="f000700">began to speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">“Sult m’own cousin m’own house.</span>
   <span id="f000702">God damn common nouveau rish.</span>
   <span id="f000703">’Sult m’own cousin – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000704">“Tom had trouble with Ahearn and Harold interfered,” said Milton.</span>
   <span id="f000705">“My Lord Milton,” cried Evylyn,</span>
   <span id="f000706">“couldn’t you have done something?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">“I tried;</span>
   <span id="f000708">I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000709">“Julie’s sick,” she interrupted;</span>
   <span id="f000710">“she’s poisoned herself.</span>
   <span id="f000711">Get him to bed if you can.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">Harold looked up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“Julie sick?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000714">Paying no attention,</span>
   <span id="f000715">Evylyn brushed by through the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000716">catching sight,</span>
   <span id="f000717">with a burst of horror,</span>
   <span id="f000718">of the big punch-bowl still on the table,</span>
   <span id="f000719">the liquid from melted ice in its bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000720">She heard steps on the front stairs – it was Milton helping Harold up – and then a mumble:</span>
   <span id="f000721">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000722">Julie’s a’righ’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">“Don’t let him go into the nursery!” she shouted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">The hours blurred into a nightmare.</span>
   <span id="f000725">The doctor arrived just before midnight and within a half-hour had lanced the wound.</span>
   <span id="f000726">He left at two after giving her the addresses of two nurses to call up and promising to return at half past six.</span>
   <span id="f000727">It was blood-poisoning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">At four,</span>
   <span id="f000729">leaving Hilda by the bedside,</span>
   <span id="f000730">she went to her room,</span>
   <span id="f000731">and slipping with a shudder out of her evening dress,</span>
   <span id="f000732">kicked it into a corner.</span>
   <span id="f000733">She put on a house dress and returned to the nursery while Hilda went to make coffee.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000734">Not until noon could she bring herself to look into Harold’s room,</span>
   <span id="f000735">but when she did it was to find him awake and staring very miserably at the ceiling.</span>
   <span id="f000736">He turned blood-shot hollow eyes upon her.</span>
   <span id="f000737">For a minute she hated him,</span>
   <span id="f000738">couldn’t speak.</span>
   <span id="f000739">A husky voice came from the bed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“What time is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000741">“Noon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000742">“I made a damn fool – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000743">“It doesn’t matter,” she said sharply.</span>
   <span id="f000744">“Julie’s got blood-poisoning.</span>
   <span id="f000745">They may” – she choked over the words – “they think she’ll have to lose her hand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000746">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000747">“She cut herself on that – that bowl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000748">“Last night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000750">what does it matter?” see cried;</span>
   <span id="f000751">“she’s got blood-poisoning.</span>
   <span id="f000752">Can’t you hear?” He looked at her bewildered – sat half-way up in bed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">“I’ll get dressed,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">Her anger subsided and a great wave of weariness and pity for him rolled over her.</span>
   <span id="f000755">After all,</span>
   <span id="f000756">it was his trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000757">too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000758">“Yes,” she answered listlessly,</span>
   <span id="f000759">“I suppose you’d better.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000760">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000761">If Evylyn’s beauty had hesitated an her early thirties it came to an abrupt decision just afterward and completely left her.</span>
   <span id="f000762">A tentative outlay of wrinkles on her face suddenly deepened and flesh collected rapidly on her legs and hips and arms.</span>
   <span id="f000763">Her mannerism of drawing her brows together had become an expression – it was habitual when she was reading or speaking and even while she slept.</span>
   <span id="f000764">She was forty-six.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">As in most families whose fortunes have gone down rather than up,</span>
   <span id="f000766">she and Harold had drifted into a colorless antagonism.</span>
   <span id="f000767">In repose they looked at each other with the toleration they might have felt for broken old chairs;</span>
   <span id="f000768">Evylyn worried a little when he was sick and did her best to be cheerful under the wearying depression of living with a disappointed man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000769">Family bridge was over for the evening and she sighed with relief.</span>
   <span id="f000770">She had made more mistakes than usual this evening and she didn’t care.</span>
   <span id="f000771">Irene shouldn’t have made that remark about the infantry being particularly dangerous.</span>
   <span id="f000772">There had been no letter for three weeks now,</span>
   <span id="f000773">and,</span>
   <span id="f000774">while this was nothing out of the ordinary,</span>
   <span id="f000775">it never failed to make her nervous;</span>
   <span id="f000776">naturally she hadn’t known how many clubs were out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000777">Harold had gone up-stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000778">so she stepped out on the porch for a breath of fresh air.</span>
   <span id="f000779">There was a bright glamour of moonlight diffusing on the sidewalks and lawns,</span>
   <span id="f000780">and with a little half yawn,</span>
   <span id="f000781">half laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000782">she remembered one long moonlight affair of her youth.</span>
   <span id="f000783">It was astonishing to think that life had once been the sum of her current love-affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000784">It was now the sum of her current problems.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">There was the problem of Julie – Julie was thirteen,</span>
   <span id="f000786">and lately she was growing more and more sensitive about her deformity and preferred to stay always in her room reading.</span>
   <span id="f000787">A few years before she had been frightened at the idea of going to school,</span>
   <span id="f000788">and Evylyn could not bring herself to send her,</span>
   <span id="f000789">so she grew up in her mother’s shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000790">a pitiful little figure with the artificial hand that she made no attempt to use but kept forlornly in her pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000791">Lately she had been taking lessons in using it because Evylyn had feared she would cease to lift the arm altogether,</span>
   <span id="f000792">but after the lessons,</span>
   <span id="f000793">unless she made a move with it in listless obedience to her mother,</span>
   <span id="f000794">the little hand would creep back to the pocket of her dress.</span>
   <span id="f000795">For a while her dresses were made without pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000796">but Julie had moped around the house so miserably at a loss all one month that Evylyn weakened and never tried the experiment again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">The problem of Donald had been different from the start.</span>
   <span id="f000798">She had attempted vainly to keep him near her as she had tried to teach Julie to lean less on her – lately the problem of Donald had been snatched out of her hands;</span>
   <span id="f000799">his division had been abroad for three months.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000800">She yawned again – life was a thing for youth.</span>
   <span id="f000801">What a happy youth she must have had!</span>
   <span id="f000802">She remembered her pony,</span>
   <span id="f000803">Bijou,</span>
   <span id="f000804">and the trip to Europe with her mother when she was eighteen –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">“Very,</span>
   <span id="f000806">very complicated,” she said aloud and severely to the moon,</span>
   <span id="f000807">and,</span>
   <span id="f000808">stepping inside,</span>
   <span id="f000809">was about to close the door when she heard a noise in the library and started.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">It was Martha,</span>
   <span id="f000811">the middle-aged servant:</span>
   <span id="f000812">they kept only one now.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000814">Martha!” she said in surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">Martha turned quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000816">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000817">I thought you was up-stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000818">I was jist – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000819">“Is anything the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">Martha hesitated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000822">I – ” She stood there fidgeting.</span>
   <span id="f000823">"It was a letter,</span>
   <span id="f000824">Mrs.&#160;Piper,</span>
   <span id="f000825">that I put somewhere.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000826">“A letter?</span>
   <span id="f000827">Your own letter?” asked Evylyn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000828">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000829">it was to you.</span>
   <span id="f000830">’Twas this afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000831">Mrs.&#160;Piper,</span>
   <span id="f000832">in the last mail.</span>
   <span id="f000833">The postman give it to me and then the back door-bell rang.</span>
   <span id="f000834">I had it in my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000835">so I must have stuck it somewhere.</span>
   <span id="f000836">I thought I’d just slip in now and find it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">“What sort of a letter?</span>
   <span id="f000838">From Mr.&#160;Donald?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000840">it was an advertisement,</span>
   <span id="f000841">maybe,</span>
   <span id="f000842">or a business letter.</span>
   <span id="f000843">It was a long narrow one,</span>
   <span id="f000844">I remember.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000845">They began a search through the music-room,</span>
   <span id="f000846">looking on trays and mantelpieces,</span>
   <span id="f000847">and then through the library,</span>
   <span id="f000848">feeling on the tops of rows of books.</span>
   <span id="f000849">Martha paused in despair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">“I can’t think where.</span>
   <span id="f000851">I went straight to the kitchen.</span>
   <span id="f000852">The dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000853">maybe.” She started hopefully for the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000854">but turned suddenly at the sound of a gasp behind her.</span>
   <span id="f000855">Evylyn had sat down heavily in a Morris chair,</span>
   <span id="f000856">her brows drawn very close together eyes blanking furiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000857">“Are you sick?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000858">For a minute there was no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000859">Evylyn sat there very still and Martha could see the very quick rise and fall of her bosom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000860">“Are you sick?” she repeated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000861">“No,” said Evylyn slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000862">“but I know where the letter is.</span>
   <span id="f000863">Go ’way,</span>
   <span id="f000864">Martha.</span>
   <span id="f000865">I know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000866">Wonderingly,</span>
   <span id="f000867">Martha withdrew,</span>
   <span id="f000868">and still Evylyn sat there,</span>
   <span id="f000869">only the muscles around her eyes moving – contracting and relaxing and contracting again.</span>
   <span id="f000870">She knew now where the letter was – she knew as well as if she had put it there herself.</span>
   <span id="f000871">And she felt instinctively and unquestionably what the letter was.</span>
   <span id="f000872">It was long and narrow like an advertisement,</span>
   <span id="f000873">but up in the corner in large letters it said “War Department” and,</span>
   <span id="f000874">in smaller letters below,</span>
   <span id="f000875">“Official Business.” She knew it lay there in the big bowl with her name in ink on the outside and her soul’s death within.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000876">Rising uncertainly,</span>
   <span id="f000877">she walked toward the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000878">feeling her way along the bookcases and through the doorway.</span>
   <span id="f000879">After a moment she found the light and switched it on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000880">There was the bowl,</span>
   <span id="f000881">reflecting the electric light in crimson squares edged with black and yellow squares edged with blue,</span>
   <span id="f000882">ponderous and glittering,</span>
   <span id="f000883">grotesquely and triumphantly ominous.</span>
   <span id="f000884">She took a step forward and paused again;</span>
   <span id="f000885">another step and she would see over the top and into the inside – another step and she would see an edge of white – another step – her hands fell on the rough,</span>
   <span id="f000886">cold surface –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000887">In a moment she was tearing it open,</span>
   <span id="f000888">fumbling with an obstinate fold,</span>
   <span id="f000889">holding it before her while the typewritten page glared out and struck at her.</span>
   <span id="f000890">Then it fluttered like a bird to the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000891">The house that had seemed whirring,</span>
   <span id="f000892">buzzing a moment since,</span>
   <span id="f000893">was suddenly very quiet;</span>
   <span id="f000894">a breath of air crept in through the open front door carrying the noise of a passing motor;</span>
   <span id="f000895">she heard faint sounds from upstairs and then a grinding racket in the pipe behind the bookcases-her husband turning of a water-tap –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000896">And in that instant it was as if this were not,</span>
   <span id="f000897">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000898">Donald’s hour except in so far as he was a marker in the insidious contest that had gone on in sudden surges and long,</span>
   <span id="f000899">listless interludes between Evylyn and this cold,</span>
   <span id="f000900">malignant thing of beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000901">a gift of enmity from a man whose face she had long since forgotten.</span>
   <span id="f000902">With its massive,</span>
   <span id="f000903">brooding passivity it lay there in the centre of her house as it had lain for years,</span>
   <span id="f000904">throwing out the ice-like beams of a thousand eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000905">perverse glitterings merging each into each,</span>
   <span id="f000906">never aging,</span>
   <span id="f000907">never changing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000908">Evylyn sat down on the edge of the table and stared at it fascinated.</span>
   <span id="f000909">It seemed to be smiling now,</span>
   <span id="f000910">a very cruel smile,</span>
   <span id="f000911">as if to say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000912">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000913">this time I didn’t have to hurt you directly.</span>
   <span id="f000914">I didn’t bother.</span>
   <span id="f000915">You know it was I who took your son away.</span>
   <span id="f000916">You know how cold I am and how hard and how beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000917">because once you were just as cold and hard and beautiful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000918">The bowl seemed suddenly to turn itself over and then to distend and swell until it became a great canopy that glittered and trembled over the room,</span>
   <span id="f000919">over the house,</span>
   <span id="f000920">and,</span>
   <span id="f000921">as the walls melted slowly into mist,</span>
   <span id="f000922">Evylyn saw that it was still moving out,</span>
   <span id="f000923">out and far away from her,</span>
   <span id="f000924">shutting off far horizons and suns and moons and stars except as inky blots seen faintly through it.</span>
   <span id="f000925">And under it walked all the people,</span>
   <span id="f000926">and the light that came through to them was refracted and twisted until shadow seamed light and light seemed shadow – until the whole panoply of the world became changed and distorted under the twinkling heaven of the bowl.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000927">Then there came a far-away,</span>
   <span id="f000928">booming voice like a low,</span>
   <span id="f000929">clear bell.</span>
   <span id="f000930">It came from the centre of the bowl and down the great sides to the ground and then bounced toward her eagerly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000931">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000932">I am fate,” it shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000933">“and stronger than your puny plans;</span>
   <span id="f000934">and I am how-things-turn-out and I am different from your little dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000935">and I am the flight of time and the end of beauty and unfulfilled desire;</span>
   <span id="f000936">all the accidents and imperceptions and the little minutes that shape the crucial hours are mine.</span>
   <span id="f000937">I am the exception that proves no rules,</span>
   <span id="f000938">the limits of your control,</span>
   <span id="f000939">the condiment in the dish of life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000940">The booming sound stopped;</span>
   <span id="f000941">the echoes rolled away over the wide land to the edge of the bowl that bounded the world and up the great sides and back to the centre where they hummed for a moment and died.</span>
   <span id="f000942">Then the great walls began slowly to bear down upon her,</span>
   <span id="f000943">growing smaller and smaller,</span>
   <span id="f000944">coming closer and closer as if to crush her;</span>
   <span id="f000945">and as she clinched her hands and waited for the swift bruise of the cold glass,</span>
   <span id="f000946">the bowl gave a sudden wrench and turned over – and lay there on the side-board,</span>
   <span id="f000947">shining and inscrutable,</span>
   <span id="f000948">reflecting in a hundred prisms,</span>
   <span id="f000949">myriad,</span>
   <span id="f000950">many-colored glints and gleams and crossings and interlaces of light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000951">The cold wind blew in again through to front door,</span>
   <span id="f000952">and with a desperate,</span>
   <span id="f000953">frantic energy Evylyn stretched both her arms around the bowl.</span>
   <span id="f000954">She must be quick – she must be strong.</span>
   <span id="f000955">She tightened her arms until they ached,</span>
   <span id="f000956">tauted the thin strips of muscle under her soft flesh,</span>
   <span id="f000957">and with a mighty effort raised it and held it.</span>
   <span id="f000958">She felt the wind blow cold on her back where her dress had come apart from the strain of her effort,</span>
   <span id="f000959">and as she felt it she turned toward it and staggered under the great weight out through the library and on toward the front door.</span>
   <span id="f000960">She must be quick – she must be strong.</span>
   <span id="f000961">The blood in her arms throbbed dully and her knees kept giving way under her,</span>
   <span id="f000962">but the feel of the cool glass was good.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000963">Out the front door she tottered and over to the stone steps,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000965">summoning every fibre of her soul and body for a last effort,</span>
   <span id="f000966">swung herself half around – for a second,</span>
   <span id="f000967">as she tried to loose her hold,</span>
   <span id="f000968">her numb fingers clung to the rough surface,</span>
   <span id="f000969">and in that second she slipped and,</span>
   <span id="f000970">losing balance,</span>
   <span id="f000971">toppled forward with a despairing cry,</span>
   <span id="f000972">her arms still around the bowl…</span>
   <span id="f000973">down…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000974">Over the way lights went on;</span>
   <span id="f000975">far down the block the crash was heard,</span>
   <span id="f000976">and pedestrians rushed up wonderingly;</span>
   <span id="f000977">up-stairs a tired man awoke from the edge of sleep and a little girl whimpered in a haunted doze.</span>
   <span id="f000978">And all over the moonlit sidewalk around the still,</span>
   <span id="f000979">black form,</span>
   <span id="f000980">hundreds of prisms and cubes and splinters of glass reflected the light in little gleams of blue,</span>
   <span id="f000981">and black edged with yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000982">and yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000983">and crimson edged with black.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

