<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure II<br />The Red-Headed League</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">I had called upon my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000009">Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000010">one day in the autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very stout,</span>
   <span id="f000011">florid-faced,</span>
   <span id="f000012">elderly gentleman with fiery red hair.</span>
   <span id="f000013">With an apology for my intrusion,</span>
   <span id="f000014">I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">“You could not possibly have come at a better time,</span>
   <span id="f000016">my dear Watson,” he said cordially.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“I was afraid that you were engaged.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">“So I am.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Very much so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">“Then I can wait in the next room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">“Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000022">This gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000023">Mr.&#160;Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000024">has been my partner and helper in many of my most successful cases,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and I have no doubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of greeting,</span>
   <span id="f000027">with a quick little questioning glance from his small fat-encircled eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">“Try the settee,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000029">relapsing into his armchair and putting his fingertips together,</span>
   <span id="f000030">as was his custom when in judicial moods.</span>
   <span id="f000031">“I know,</span>
   <span id="f000032">my dear Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000033">that you share my love of all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life.</span>
   <span id="f000034">You have shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and,</span>
   <span id="f000036">if you will excuse my saying so,</span>
   <span id="f000037">somewhat to embellish so many of my own little adventures.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me,” I observed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“You will remember that I remarked the other day,</span>
   <span id="f000040">just before we went into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland,</span>
   <span id="f000041">that for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life itself,</span>
   <span id="f000042">which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“You did,</span>
   <span id="f000045">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000046">but none the less you must come round to my view,</span>
   <span id="f000047">for otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000049">Mr.&#160;Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular which I have listened to for some time.</span>
   <span id="f000051">You have heard me remark that the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with the larger but with the smaller crimes,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and occasionally,</span>
   <span id="f000053">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000054">where there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed.</span>
   <span id="f000055">As far as I have heard it is impossible for me to say whether the present case is an instance of crime or not,</span>
   <span id="f000056">but the course of events is certainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000058">Mr.&#160;Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000059">you would have the great kindness to recommence your narrative.</span>
   <span id="f000060">I ask you not merely because my friend Dr.&#160;Watson has not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips.</span>
   <span id="f000061">As a rule,</span>
   <span id="f000062">when I have heard some slight indication of the course of events,</span>
   <span id="f000063">I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar cases which occur to my memory.</span>
   <span id="f000064">In the present instance I am forced to admit that the facts are,</span>
   <span id="f000065">to the best of my belief,</span>
   <span id="f000066">unique.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat.</span>
   <span id="f000068">As he glanced down the advertisement column,</span>
   <span id="f000069">with his head thrust forward and the paper flattened out upon his knee,</span>
   <span id="f000070">I took a good look at the man and endeavoured,</span>
   <span id="f000071">after the fashion of my companion,</span>
   <span id="f000072">to read the indications which might be presented by his dress or appearance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">I did not gain very much,</span>
   <span id="f000074">however,</span>
   <span id="f000075">by my inspection.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Our visitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace British tradesman,</span>
   <span id="f000077">obese,</span>
   <span id="f000078">pompous,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and slow.</span>
   <span id="f000080">He wore rather baggy grey shepherd’s check trousers,</span>
   <span id="f000081">a not over-clean black frock-coat,</span>
   <span id="f000082">unbuttoned in the front,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassy Albert chain,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down as an ornament.</span>
   <span id="f000085">A frayed top-hat and a faded brown overcoat with a wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Altogether,</span>
   <span id="f000087">look as I would,</span>
   <span id="f000088">there was nothing remarkable about the man save his blazing red head,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and the expression of extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">Sherlock Holmes’ quick eye took in my occupation,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and he shook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances.</span>
   <span id="f000092">“Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labour,</span>
   <span id="f000093">that he takes snuff,</span>
   <span id="f000094">that he is a Freemason,</span>
   <span id="f000095">that he has been in China,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately,</span>
   <span id="f000097">I can deduce nothing else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Mr.&#160;Jabez Wilson started up in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000099">with his forefinger upon the paper,</span>
   <span id="f000100">but his eyes upon my companion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“How,</span>
   <span id="f000102">in the name of good-fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000103">did you know all that,</span>
   <span id="f000104">Mr.&#160;Holmes?” he asked.</span>
   <span id="f000105">“How did you know,</span>
   <span id="f000106">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000107">that I did manual labour.</span>
   <span id="f000108">It’s as true as gospel,</span>
   <span id="f000109">for I began as a ship’s carpenter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Your hands,</span>
   <span id="f000111">my dear sir.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Your right hand is quite a size larger than your left.</span>
   <span id="f000113">You have worked with it,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and the muscles are more developed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000116">the snuff,</span>
   <span id="f000117">then,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and the Freemasonry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“I won’t insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that,</span>
   <span id="f000120">especially as,</span>
   <span id="f000121">rather against the strict rules of your order,</span>
   <span id="f000122">you use an arc-and-compass breastpin.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000124">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000125">I forgot that.</span>
   <span id="f000126">But the writing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000130">but China?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in China.</span>
   <span id="f000132">I have made a small study of tattoo marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject.</span>
   <span id="f000133">That trick of staining the fishes’ scales of a delicate pink is quite peculiar to China.</span>
   <span id="f000134">When,</span>
   <span id="f000135">in addition,</span>
   <span id="f000136">I see a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain,</span>
   <span id="f000137">the matter becomes even more simple.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">Mr.&#160;Jabez Wilson laughed heavily.</span>
   <span id="f000139">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000140">I never!” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000141">“I thought at first that you had done something clever,</span>
   <span id="f000142">but I see that there was nothing in it,</span>
   <span id="f000143">after all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“I begin to think,</span>
   <span id="f000145">Watson,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000146">“that I make a mistake in explaining.</span>
   <span id="f000147">’Omne ignotum pro magnifico,’ you know,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and my poor little reputation,</span>
   <span id="f000149">such as it is,</span>
   <span id="f000150">will suffer shipwreck if I am so candid.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Can you not find the advertisement,</span>
   <span id="f000152">Mr.&#160;Wilson?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000154">I have got it now,” he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column.</span>
   <span id="f000155">“Here it is.</span>
   <span id="f000156">This is what began it all.</span>
   <span id="f000157">You just read it for yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000158">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">I took the paper from him and read as follows:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“TO THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE:</span>
   <span id="f000161">On account of the bequest of the late Ezekiah Hopkins,</span>
   <span id="f000162">of Lebanon,</span>
   <span id="f000163">Pennsylvania,</span>
   <span id="f000164">U.</span>
   <span id="f000165">S.</span>
   <span id="f000166">A.,</span>
   <span id="f000167">there is now another vacancy open which entitles a member of the League to a salary of 4 pounds a week for purely nominal services.</span>
   <span id="f000168">All red-headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years,</span>
   <span id="f000169">are eligible.</span>
   <span id="f000170">Apply in person on Monday,</span>
   <span id="f000171">at eleven o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000172">to Duncan Ross,</span>
   <span id="f000173">at the offices of the League,</span>
   <span id="f000174">7 Pope’s Court,</span>
   <span id="f000175">Fleet Street.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“What on earth does this mean?” I ejaculated after I had twice read over the extraordinary announcement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000178">as was his habit when in high spirits.</span>
   <span id="f000179">“It is a little off the beaten track,</span>
   <span id="f000180">isn’t it?” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000181">“And now,</span>
   <span id="f000182">Mr.&#160;Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000183">off you go at scratch and tell us all about yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000184">your household,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and the effect which this advertisement had upon your fortunes.</span>
   <span id="f000186">You will first make a note,</span>
   <span id="f000187">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000188">of the paper and the date.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“It is The Morning Chronicle of April 27,</span>
   <span id="f000190">1890.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Just two months ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“Very good.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000194">Mr.&#160;Wilson?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000196">it is just as I have been telling you,</span>
   <span id="f000197">Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes,” said Jabez Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000198">mopping his forehead;</span>
   <span id="f000199">“I have a small pawnbroker’s business at Coburg Square,</span>
   <span id="f000200">near the City.</span>
   <span id="f000201">It’s not a very large affair,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living.</span>
   <span id="f000203">I used to be able to keep two assistants,</span>
   <span id="f000204">but now I only keep one;</span>
   <span id="f000205">and I would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn the business.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“What is the name of this obliging youth?” asked Sherlock Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">“His name is Vincent Spaulding,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and he’s not such a youth,</span>
   <span id="f000209">either.</span>
   <span id="f000210">It’s hard to say his age.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I should not wish a smarter assistant,</span>
   <span id="f000212">Mr.&#160;Holmes;</span>
   <span id="f000213">and I know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what I am able to give him.</span>
   <span id="f000214">But,</span>
   <span id="f000215">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000216">if he is satisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000217">why should I put ideas in his head?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000219">indeed?</span>
   <span id="f000220">You seem most fortunate in having an employé who comes under the full market price.</span>
   <span id="f000221">It is not a common experience among employers in this age.</span>
   <span id="f000222">I don’t know that your assistant is not as remarkable as your advertisement.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000224">he has his faults,</span>
   <span id="f000225">too,” said Mr.&#160;Wilson.</span>
   <span id="f000226">“Never was such a fellow for photography.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Snapping away with a camera when he ought to be improving his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures.</span>
   <span id="f000229">That is his main fault,</span>
   <span id="f000230">but on the whole he’s a good worker.</span>
   <span id="f000231">There’s no vice in him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“He is still with you,</span>
   <span id="f000233">I presume?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000235">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000236">He and a girl of fourteen,</span>
   <span id="f000237">who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean – that’s all I have in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000238">for I am a widower and never had any family.</span>
   <span id="f000239">We live very quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000240">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000241">the three of us;</span>
   <span id="f000242">and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts,</span>
   <span id="f000243">if we do nothing more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">The first thing that put us out was that advertisement.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Spaulding,</span>
   <span id="f000246">he came down into the office just this day eight weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000247">with this very paper in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and he says:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">’I wish to the Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000250">Mr.&#160;Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000251">that I was a red-headed man.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">’Why that?’ I asks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">’Why,’ says he,</span>
   <span id="f000254">’here’s another vacancy on the League of the Red-headed Men.</span>
   <span id="f000255">It’s worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets it,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and I understand that there are more vacancies than there are men,</span>
   <span id="f000257">so that the trustees are at their wits’ end what to do with the money.</span>
   <span id="f000258">If my hair would only change colour,</span>
   <span id="f000259">here’s a nice little crib all ready for me to step into.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f000261">what is it,</span>
   <span id="f000262">then?’ I asked.</span>
   <span id="f000263">You see,</span>
   <span id="f000264">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000265">I am a very stay-at-home man,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and as my business came to me instead of my having to go to it,</span>
   <span id="f000267">I was often weeks on end without putting my foot over the door-mat.</span>
   <span id="f000268">In that way I didn’t know much of what was going on outside,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and I was always glad of a bit of news.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">’Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?’ he asked with his eyes open.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">’Never.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f000273">I wonder at that,</span>
   <span id="f000274">for you are eligible yourself for one of the vacancies.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">’And what are they worth?’ I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000277">merely a couple of hundred a year,</span>
   <span id="f000278">but the work is slight,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and it need not interfere very much with one’s other occupations.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000281">you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears,</span>
   <span id="f000282">for the business has not been over-good for some years,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and an extra couple of hundred would have been very handy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">’Tell me all about it,’ said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">’Well,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000286">showing me the advertisement,</span>
   <span id="f000287">’you can see for yourself that the League has a vacancy,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and there is the address where you should apply for particulars.</span>
   <span id="f000289">As far as I can make out,</span>
   <span id="f000290">the League was founded by an American millionaire,</span>
   <span id="f000291">Ezekiah Hopkins,</span>
   <span id="f000292">who was very peculiar in his ways.</span>
   <span id="f000293">He was himself red-headed,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and he had a great sympathy for all red-headed men;</span>
   <span id="f000295">so when he died it was found that he had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees,</span>
   <span id="f000296">with instructions to apply the interest to the providing of easy berths to men whose hair is of that colour.</span>
   <span id="f000297">From all I hear it is splendid pay and very little to do.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">’But,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000299">’there would be millions of red-headed men who would apply.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">’Not so many as you might think,’ he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000301">’You see it is really confined to Londoners,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and to grown men.</span>
   <span id="f000303">This American had started from London when he was young,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and he wanted to do the old town a good turn.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000306">again,</span>
   <span id="f000307">I have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is light red,</span>
   <span id="f000308">or dark red,</span>
   <span id="f000309">or anything but real bright,</span>
   <span id="f000310">blazing,</span>
   <span id="f000311">fiery red.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000313">if you cared to apply,</span>
   <span id="f000314">Mr.&#160;Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000315">you would just walk in;</span>
   <span id="f000316">but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000318">it is a fact,</span>
   <span id="f000319">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000320">as you may see for yourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000321">that my hair is of a very full and rich tint,</span>
   <span id="f000322">so that it seemed to me that if there was to be any competition in the matter I stood as good a chance as any man that I had ever met.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Vincent Spaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he might prove useful,</span>
   <span id="f000324">so I just ordered him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me.</span>
   <span id="f000325">He was very willing to have a holiday,</span>
   <span id="f000326">so we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“I never hope to see such a sight as that again,</span>
   <span id="f000328">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000329">From north,</span>
   <span id="f000330">south,</span>
   <span id="f000331">east,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Fleet Street was choked with red-headed folk,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and Pope’s Court looked like a coster’s orange barrow.</span>
   <span id="f000335">I should not have thought there were so many in the whole country as were brought together by that single advertisement.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Every shade of colour they were – straw,</span>
   <span id="f000337">lemon,</span>
   <span id="f000338">orange,</span>
   <span id="f000339">brick,</span>
   <span id="f000340">Irish-setter,</span>
   <span id="f000341">liver,</span>
   <span id="f000342">clay;</span>
   <span id="f000343">but,</span>
   <span id="f000344">as Spaulding said,</span>
   <span id="f000345">there were not many who had the real vivid flame-coloured tint.</span>
   <span id="f000346">When I saw how many were waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000347">I would have given it up in despair;</span>
   <span id="f000348">but Spaulding would not hear of it.</span>
   <span id="f000349">How he did it I could not imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000350">but he pushed and pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and right up to the steps which led to the office.</span>
   <span id="f000352">There was a double stream upon the stair,</span>
   <span id="f000353">some going up in hope,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and some coming back dejected;</span>
   <span id="f000355">but we wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in the office.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“Your experience has been a most entertaining one,” remarked Holmes as his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff.</span>
   <span id="f000357">“Pray continue your very interesting statement.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a deal table,</span>
   <span id="f000359">behind which sat a small man with a head that was even redder than mine.</span>
   <span id="f000360">He said a few words to each candidate as he came up,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would disqualify them.</span>
   <span id="f000362">Getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter,</span>
   <span id="f000363">after all.</span>
   <span id="f000364">However,</span>
   <span id="f000365">when our turn came the little man was much more favourable to me than to any of the others,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and he closed the door as we entered,</span>
   <span id="f000367">so that he might have a private word with us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">’This is Mr.&#160;Jabez Wilson,’ said my assistant,</span>
   <span id="f000369">’and he is willing to fill a vacancy in the League.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">’And he is admirably suited for it,’ the other answered.</span>
   <span id="f000371">’He has every requirement.</span>
   <span id="f000372">I cannot recall when I have seen anything so fine.’ He took a step backward,</span>
   <span id="f000373">cocked his head on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Then suddenly he plunged forward,</span>
   <span id="f000376">wrung my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and congratulated me warmly on my success.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">’It would be injustice to hesitate,’ said he.</span>
   <span id="f000379">’You will,</span>
   <span id="f000380">however,</span>
   <span id="f000381">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f000382">excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.’ With that he seized my hair in both his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and tugged until I yelled with the pain.</span>
   <span id="f000384">’There is water in your eyes,’ said he as he released me.</span>
   <span id="f000385">’I perceive that all is as it should be.</span>
   <span id="f000386">But we have to be careful,</span>
   <span id="f000387">for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint.</span>
   <span id="f000388">I could tell you tales of cobbler’s wax which would disgust you with human nature.’ He stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled.</span>
   <span id="f000389">A groan of disappointment came up from below,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">’My name,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000392">’is Mr.&#160;Duncan Ross,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and I am myself one of the pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Are you a married man,</span>
   <span id="f000395">Mr.&#160;Wilson?</span>
   <span id="f000396">Have you a family?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">I answered that I had not.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">His face fell immediately.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">’Dear me!’ he said gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000400">’that is very serious indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000401">I am sorry to hear you say that.</span>
   <span id="f000402">The fund was,</span>
   <span id="f000403">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000404">for the propagation and spread of the red-heads as well as for their maintenance.</span>
   <span id="f000405">It is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">My face lengthened at this,</span>
   <span id="f000407">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000408">for I thought that I was not to have the vacancy after all;</span>
   <span id="f000409">but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">’In the case of another,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000411">’the objection might be fatal,</span>
   <span id="f000412">but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as yours.</span>
   <span id="f000413">When shall you be able to enter upon your new duties?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000415">it is a little awkward,</span>
   <span id="f000416">for I have a business already,’ said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000418">never mind about that,</span>
   <span id="f000419">Mr.&#160;Wilson!’ said Vincent Spaulding.</span>
   <span id="f000420">’I should be able to look after that for you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">’What would be the hours?’ I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">’Ten to two.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">Now a pawnbroker’s business is mostly done of an evening,</span>
   <span id="f000424">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000425">especially Thursday and Friday evening,</span>
   <span id="f000426">which is just before pay-day;</span>
   <span id="f000427">so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings.</span>
   <span id="f000428">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000429">I knew that my assistant was a good man,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and that he would see to anything that turned up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">’That would suit me very well,’ said I.</span>
   <span id="f000432">’And the pay?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">’Is 4 pounds a week.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">’And the work?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">’Is purely nominal.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">’What do you call purely nominal?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000438">you have to be in the office,</span>
   <span id="f000439">or at least in the building,</span>
   <span id="f000440">the whole time.</span>
   <span id="f000441">If you leave,</span>
   <span id="f000442">you forfeit your whole position forever.</span>
   <span id="f000443">The will is very clear upon that point.</span>
   <span id="f000444">You don’t comply with the conditions if you budge from the office during that time.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">’It’s only four hours a day,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and I should not think of leaving,’ said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">’No excuse will avail,’ said Mr.&#160;Duncan Ross;</span>
   <span id="f000448">’neither sickness nor business nor anything else.</span>
   <span id="f000449">There you must stay,</span>
   <span id="f000450">or you lose your billet.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">’And the work?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">“’Is to copy out the ”Encyclopaedia Britannica." There is the first volume of it in that press.</span>
   <span id="f000453">You must find your own ink,</span>
   <span id="f000454">pens,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and blotting-paper,</span>
   <span id="f000456">but we provide this table and chair.</span>
   <span id="f000457">Will you be ready to-morrow?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">’Certainly,’ I answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">’Then,</span>
   <span id="f000460">good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f000461">Mr.&#160;Jabez Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and let me congratulate you once more on the important position which you have been fortunate enough to gain.’ He bowed me out of the room and I went home with my assistant,</span>
   <span id="f000463">hardly knowing what to say or do,</span>
   <span id="f000464">I was so pleased at my own good fortune.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000466">I thought over the matter all day,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and by evening I was in low spirits again;</span>
   <span id="f000468">for I had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair must be some great hoax or fraud,</span>
   <span id="f000469">though what its object might be I could not imagine.</span>
   <span id="f000470">It seemed altogether past belief that anyone could make such a will,</span>
   <span id="f000471">or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out the ’Encyclopaedia Britannica.’ Vincent Spaulding did what he could to cheer me up,</span>
   <span id="f000472">but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the whole thing.</span>
   <span id="f000473">However,</span>
   <span id="f000474">in the morning I determined to have a look at it anyhow,</span>
   <span id="f000475">so I bought a penny bottle of ink,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and with a quill-pen,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and seven sheets of foolscap paper,</span>
   <span id="f000478">I started off for Pope’s Court.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000480">to my surprise and delight,</span>
   <span id="f000481">everything was as right as possible.</span>
   <span id="f000482">The table was set out ready for me,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and Mr.&#160;Duncan Ross was there to see that I got fairly to work.</span>
   <span id="f000484">He started me off upon the letter A,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and then he left me;</span>
   <span id="f000486">but he would drop in from time to time to see that all was right with me.</span>
   <span id="f000487">At two o’clock he bade me good-day,</span>
   <span id="f000488">complimented me upon the amount that I had written,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and locked the door of the office after me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">This went on day after day,</span>
   <span id="f000491">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and on Saturday the manager came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my week’s work.</span>
   <span id="f000493">It was the same next week,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and the same the week after.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Every morning I was there at ten,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and every afternoon I left at two.</span>
   <span id="f000497">By degrees Mr.&#160;Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000499">after a time,</span>
   <span id="f000500">he did not come in at all.</span>
   <span id="f000501">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000502">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000503">I never dared to leave the room for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000504">for I was not sure when he might come,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and the billet was such a good one,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and suited me so well,</span>
   <span id="f000507">that I would not risk the loss of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000508">“Eight weeks passed away like this,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and I had written about Abbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and hoped with diligence that I might get on to the B’s before very long.</span>
   <span id="f000511">It cost me something in foolscap,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my writings.</span>
   <span id="f000513">And then suddenly the whole business came to an end.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">“To an end?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000516">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000517">And no later than this morning.</span>
   <span id="f000518">I went to my work as usual at ten o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000519">but the door was shut and locked,</span>
   <span id="f000520">with a little square of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack.</span>
   <span id="f000521">Here it is,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and you can read for yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of note-paper.</span>
   <span id="f000524">It read in this fashion:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000525">THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE<br /></span>
   <span id="f000526">IS<br /></span>
   <span id="f000527">DISSOLVED.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000528">October 9,</span>
   <span id="f000529">1890.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000530">Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful face behind it,</span>
   <span id="f000531">until the comical side of the affair so completely overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar of laughter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“I cannot see that there is anything very funny,” cried our client,</span>
   <span id="f000533">flushing up to the roots of his flaming head.</span>
   <span id="f000534">“If you can do nothing better than laugh at me,</span>
   <span id="f000535">I can go elsewhere.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000537">no,” cried Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000538">shoving him back into the chair from which he had half risen.</span>
   <span id="f000539">“I really wouldn’t miss your case for the world.</span>
   <span id="f000540">It is most refreshingly unusual.</span>
   <span id="f000541">But there is,</span>
   <span id="f000542">if you will excuse my saying so,</span>
   <span id="f000543">something just a little funny about it.</span>
   <span id="f000544">Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">I was staggered,</span>
   <span id="f000546">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000547">I did not know what to do.</span>
   <span id="f000548">Then I called at the offices round,</span>
   <span id="f000549">but none of them seemed to know anything about it.</span>
   <span id="f000550">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f000551">I went to the landlord,</span>
   <span id="f000552">who is an accountant living on the ground-floor,</span>
   <span id="f000553">and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of the Red-headed League.</span>
   <span id="f000554">He said that he had never heard of any such body.</span>
   <span id="f000555">Then I asked him who Mr.&#160;Duncan Ross was.</span>
   <span id="f000556">He answered that the name was new to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">’Well,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000558">’the gentleman at No.</span>
   <span id="f000559">4.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">’What,</span>
   <span id="f000561">the red-headed man?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">’Yes.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">’Oh,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000564">’his name was William Morris.</span>
   <span id="f000565">He was a solicitor and was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises were ready.</span>
   <span id="f000566">He moved out yesterday.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000567">’Where could I find him?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000569">at his new offices.</span>
   <span id="f000570">He did tell me the address.</span>
   <span id="f000571">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000572">17 King Edward Street,</span>
   <span id="f000573">near St.&#160;Paul’s.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">“I started off,</span>
   <span id="f000575">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000576">but when I got to that address it was a manufactory of artificial knee-caps,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and no one in it had ever heard of either Mr.&#160;William Morris or Mr.&#160;Duncan Ross.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000578">“And what did you do then?” asked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">“I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and I took the advice of my assistant.</span>
   <span id="f000581">But he could not help me in any way.</span>
   <span id="f000582">He could only say that if I waited I should hear by post.</span>
   <span id="f000583">But that was not quite good enough,</span>
   <span id="f000584">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000585">I did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle,</span>
   <span id="f000586">so,</span>
   <span id="f000587">as I had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor folk who were in need of it,</span>
   <span id="f000588">I came right away to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">“And you did very wisely,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000590">“Your case is an exceedingly remarkable one,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and I shall be happy to look into it.</span>
   <span id="f000592">From what you have told me I think that it is possible that graver issues hang from it than might at first sight appear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">“Grave enough!” said Mr.&#160;Jabez Wilson.</span>
   <span id="f000594">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000595">I have lost four pound a week.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">“As far as you are personally concerned,” remarked Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000597">“I do not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league.</span>
   <span id="f000598">On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000599">you are,</span>
   <span id="f000600">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000601">richer by some 30 pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000602">to say nothing of the minute knowledge which you have gained on every subject which comes under the letter A.</span>
   <span id="f000603">You have lost nothing by them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000604">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000605">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000606">But I want to find out about them,</span>
   <span id="f000607">and who they are,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and what their object was in playing this prank – if it was a prank – upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000609">It was a pretty expensive joke for them,</span>
   <span id="f000610">for it cost them two and thirty pounds.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000611">“We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you.</span>
   <span id="f000612">And,</span>
   <span id="f000613">first,</span>
   <span id="f000614">one or two questions,</span>
   <span id="f000615">Mr.&#160;Wilson.</span>
   <span id="f000616">This assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement – how long had he been with you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">“About a month then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“How did he come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">“In answer to an advertisement.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">“Was he the only applicant?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000622">I had a dozen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">“Why did you pick him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000624">“Because he was handy and would come cheap.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">“At half-wages,</span>
   <span id="f000626">in fact.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000628">“What is he like,</span>
   <span id="f000629">this Vincent Spaulding?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">“Small,</span>
   <span id="f000631">stout-built,</span>
   <span id="f000632">very quick in his ways,</span>
   <span id="f000633">no hair on his face,</span>
   <span id="f000634">though he’s not short of thirty.</span>
   <span id="f000635">Has a white splash of acid upon his forehead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement.</span>
   <span id="f000637">“I thought as much,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000638">“Have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000640">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000641">He told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a lad.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000642">“Hum!” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000643">sinking back in deep thought.</span>
   <span id="f000644">“He is still with you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000646">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000647">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000648">I have only just left him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“And has your business been attended to in your absence?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">“Nothing to complain of,</span>
   <span id="f000651">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000652">There’s never very much to do of a morning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">“That will do,</span>
   <span id="f000654">Mr.&#160;Wilson.</span>
   <span id="f000655">I shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two.</span>
   <span id="f000656">To-day is Saturday,</span>
   <span id="f000657">and I hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000659">Watson,” said Holmes when our visitor had left us,</span>
   <span id="f000660">“what do you make of it all?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000661">“I make nothing of it,” I answered frankly.</span>
   <span id="f000662">“It is a most mysterious business.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">“As a rule,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000664">“the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be.</span>
   <span id="f000665">It is your commonplace,</span>
   <span id="f000666">featureless crimes which are really puzzling,</span>
   <span id="f000667">just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify.</span>
   <span id="f000668">But I must be prompt over this matter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">“What are you going to do,</span>
   <span id="f000670">then?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">“To smoke,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000672">“It is quite a three pipe problem,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and I beg that you won’t speak to me for fifty minutes.” He curled himself up in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000674">with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose,</span>
   <span id="f000675">and there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird.</span>
   <span id="f000676">I had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and indeed was nodding myself,</span>
   <span id="f000678">when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">“Sarasate plays at the St.&#160;James’s Hall this afternoon,” he remarked.</span>
   <span id="f000680">“What do you think,</span>
   <span id="f000681">Watson?</span>
   <span id="f000682">Could your patients spare you for a few hours?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">“I have nothing to do to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000684">My practice is never very absorbing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">“Then put on your hat and come.</span>
   <span id="f000686">I am going through the City first,</span>
   <span id="f000687">and we can have some lunch on the way.</span>
   <span id="f000688">I observe that there is a good deal of German music on the programme,</span>
   <span id="f000689">which is rather more to my taste than Italian or French.</span>
   <span id="f000690">It is introspective,</span>
   <span id="f000691">and I want to introspect.</span>
   <span id="f000692">Come along!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000693">We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate;</span>
   <span id="f000694">and a short walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square,</span>
   <span id="f000695">the scene of the singular story which we had listened to in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000696">It was a poky,</span>
   <span id="f000697">little,</span>
   <span id="f000698">shabby-genteel place,</span>
   <span id="f000699">where four lines of dingy two-storied brick houses looked out into a small railed-in enclosure,</span>
   <span id="f000700">where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of faded laurel-bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden and uncongenial atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000701">Three gilt balls and a brown board with “JABEZ WILSON” in white letters,</span>
   <span id="f000702">upon a corner house,</span>
   <span id="f000703">announced the place where our red-headed client carried on his business.</span>
   <span id="f000704">Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over,</span>
   <span id="f000705">with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids.</span>
   <span id="f000706">Then he walked slowly up the street,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and then down again to the corner,</span>
   <span id="f000708">still looking keenly at the houses.</span>
   <span id="f000709">Finally he returned to the pawnbroker’s,</span>
   <span id="f000710">and,</span>
   <span id="f000711">having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times,</span>
   <span id="f000712">he went up to the door and knocked.</span>
   <span id="f000713">It was instantly opened by a bright-looking,</span>
   <span id="f000714">clean-shaven young fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000715">who asked him to step in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">“Thank you,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000717">“I only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the Strand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000718">“Third right,</span>
   <span id="f000719">fourth left,” answered the assistant promptly,</span>
   <span id="f000720">closing the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">“Smart fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000722">that,” observed Holmes as we walked away.</span>
   <span id="f000723">“He is,</span>
   <span id="f000724">in my judgment,</span>
   <span id="f000725">the fourth smartest man in London,</span>
   <span id="f000726">and for daring I am not sure that he has not a claim to be third.</span>
   <span id="f000727">I have known something of him before.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">“Evidently,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000729">“Mr.&#160;Wilson’s assistant counts for a good deal in this mystery of the Red-headed League.</span>
   <span id="f000730">I am sure that you inquired your way merely in order that you might see him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">“Not him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">“What then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">“The knees of his trousers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000734">“And what did you see?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">“What I expected to see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000736">“Why did you beat the pavement?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000737">“My dear doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000738">this is a time for observation,</span>
   <span id="f000739">not for talk.</span>
   <span id="f000740">We are spies in an enemy’s country.</span>
   <span id="f000741">We know something of Saxe-Coburg Square.</span>
   <span id="f000742">Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000743">The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great a contrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back.</span>
   <span id="f000744">It was one of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City to the north and west.</span>
   <span id="f000745">The roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward,</span>
   <span id="f000746">while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm of pedestrians.</span>
   <span id="f000747">It was difficult to realise as we looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square which we had just quitted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000748">“Let me see,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000749">standing at the corner and glancing along the line,</span>
   <span id="f000750">“I should like just to remember the order of the houses here.</span>
   <span id="f000751">It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of London.</span>
   <span id="f000752">There is Mortimer’s,</span>
   <span id="f000753">the tobacconist,</span>
   <span id="f000754">the little newspaper shop,</span>
   <span id="f000755">the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank,</span>
   <span id="f000756">the Vegetarian Restaurant,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and McFarlane’s carriage-building depot.</span>
   <span id="f000758">That carries us right on to the other block.</span>
   <span id="f000759">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000760">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000761">we’ve done our work,</span>
   <span id="f000762">so it’s time we had some play.</span>
   <span id="f000763">A sandwich and a cup of coffee,</span>
   <span id="f000764">and then off to violin-land,</span>
   <span id="f000765">where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony,</span>
   <span id="f000766">and there are no red-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">My friend was an enthusiastic musician,</span>
   <span id="f000768">being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit.</span>
   <span id="f000769">All the afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000770">gently waving his long,</span>
   <span id="f000771">thin fingers in time to the music,</span>
   <span id="f000772">while his gently smiling face and his languid,</span>
   <span id="f000773">dreamy eyes were as unlike those of Holmes the sleuth-hound,</span>
   <span id="f000774">Holmes the relentless,</span>
   <span id="f000775">keen-witted,</span>
   <span id="f000776">ready-handed criminal agent,</span>
   <span id="f000777">as it was possible to conceive.</span>
   <span id="f000778">In his singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself,</span>
   <span id="f000779">and his extreme exactness and astuteness represented,</span>
   <span id="f000780">as I have often thought,</span>
   <span id="f000781">the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionally predominated in him.</span>
   <span id="f000782">The swing of his nature took him from extreme languor to devouring energy;</span>
   <span id="f000783">and,</span>
   <span id="f000784">as I knew well,</span>
   <span id="f000785">he was never so truly formidable as when,</span>
   <span id="f000786">for days on end,</span>
   <span id="f000787">he had been lounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and his black-letter editions.</span>
   <span id="f000788">Then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000789">and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of intuition,</span>
   <span id="f000790">until those who were unacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other mortals.</span>
   <span id="f000791">When I saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St.&#160;James’s Hall I felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had set himself to hunt down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">“You want to go home,</span>
   <span id="f000793">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000794">Doctor,” he remarked as we emerged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000795">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000796">it would be as well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">“And I have some business to do which will take some hours.</span>
   <span id="f000798">This business at Coburg Square is serious.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">“Why serious?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000800">“A considerable crime is in contemplation.</span>
   <span id="f000801">I have every reason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it.</span>
   <span id="f000802">But to-day being Saturday rather complicates matters.</span>
   <span id="f000803">I shall want your help to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“At what time?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">“Ten will be early enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">“I shall be at Baker Street at ten.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000807">“Very well.</span>
   <span id="f000808">And,</span>
   <span id="f000809">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000810">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000811">there may be some little danger,</span>
   <span id="f000812">so kindly put your army revolver in your pocket.” He waved his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000813">turned on his heel,</span>
   <span id="f000814">and disappeared in an instant among the crowd.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">I trust that I am not more dense than my neighbours,</span>
   <span id="f000816">but I was always oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000817">Here I had heard what he had heard,</span>
   <span id="f000818">I had seen what he had seen,</span>
   <span id="f000819">and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about to happen,</span>
   <span id="f000820">while to me the whole business was still confused and grotesque.</span>
   <span id="f000821">As I drove home to my house in Kensington I thought over it all,</span>
   <span id="f000822">from the extraordinary story of the red-headed copier of the “Encyclopaedia” down to the visit to Saxe-Coburg Square,</span>
   <span id="f000823">and the ominous words with which he had parted from me.</span>
   <span id="f000824">What was this nocturnal expedition,</span>
   <span id="f000825">and why should I go armed?</span>
   <span id="f000826">Where were we going,</span>
   <span id="f000827">and what were we to do?</span>
   <span id="f000828">I had the hint from Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbroker’s assistant was a formidable man – a man who might play a deep game.</span>
   <span id="f000829">I tried to puzzle it out,</span>
   <span id="f000830">but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an explanation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000831">It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my way across the Park,</span>
   <span id="f000832">and so through Oxford Street to Baker Street.</span>
   <span id="f000833">Two hansoms were standing at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000834">and as I entered the passage I heard the sound of voices from above.</span>
   <span id="f000835">On entering his room I found Holmes in animated conversation with two men,</span>
   <span id="f000836">one of whom I recognised as Peter Jones,</span>
   <span id="f000837">the official police agent,</span>
   <span id="f000838">while the other was a long,</span>
   <span id="f000839">thin,</span>
   <span id="f000840">sad-faced man,</span>
   <span id="f000841">with a very shiny hat and oppressively respectable frock-coat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000842">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000843">Our party is complete,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000844">buttoning up his pea-jacket and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack.</span>
   <span id="f000845">“Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000846">I think you know Mr.&#160;Jones,</span>
   <span id="f000847">of Scotland Yard?</span>
   <span id="f000848">Let me introduce you to Mr.&#160;Merryweather,</span>
   <span id="f000849">who is to be our companion in to-night’s adventure.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">“We’re hunting in couples again,</span>
   <span id="f000851">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000852">you see,” said Jones in his consequential way.</span>
   <span id="f000853">“Our friend here is a wonderful man for starting a chase.</span>
   <span id="f000854">All he wants is an old dog to help him to do the running down.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">“I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase,” observed Mr.&#160;Merryweather gloomily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000856">“You may place considerable confidence in Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000857">sir,” said the police agent loftily.</span>
   <span id="f000858">“He has his own little methods,</span>
   <span id="f000859">which are,</span>
   <span id="f000860">if he won’t mind my saying so,</span>
   <span id="f000861">just a little too theoretical and fantastic,</span>
   <span id="f000862">but he has the makings of a detective in him.</span>
   <span id="f000863">It is not too much to say that once or twice,</span>
   <span id="f000864">as in that business of the Sholto murder and the Agra treasure,</span>
   <span id="f000865">he has been more nearly correct than the official force.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000866">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000867">if you say so,</span>
   <span id="f000868">Mr.&#160;Jones,</span>
   <span id="f000869">it is all right,” said the stranger with deference.</span>
   <span id="f000870">“Still,</span>
   <span id="f000871">I confess that I miss my rubber.</span>
   <span id="f000872">It is the first Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that I have not had my rubber.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000873">“I think you will find,” said Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000874">“that you will play for a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet,</span>
   <span id="f000875">and that the play will be more exciting.</span>
   <span id="f000876">For you,</span>
   <span id="f000877">Mr.&#160;Merryweather,</span>
   <span id="f000878">the stake will be some 30,000 pounds;</span>
   <span id="f000879">and for you,</span>
   <span id="f000880">Jones,</span>
   <span id="f000881">it will be the man upon whom you wish to lay your hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">“John Clay,</span>
   <span id="f000883">the murderer,</span>
   <span id="f000884">thief,</span>
   <span id="f000885">smasher,</span>
   <span id="f000886">and forger.</span>
   <span id="f000887">He’s a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000888">Mr.&#160;Merryweather,</span>
   <span id="f000889">but he is at the head of his profession,</span>
   <span id="f000890">and I would rather have my bracelets on him than on any criminal in London.</span>
   <span id="f000891">He’s a remarkable man,</span>
   <span id="f000892">is young John Clay.</span>
   <span id="f000893">His grandfather was a royal duke,</span>
   <span id="f000894">and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford.</span>
   <span id="f000895">His brain is as cunning as his fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000896">and though we meet signs of him at every turn,</span>
   <span id="f000897">we never know where to find the man himself.</span>
   <span id="f000898">He’ll crack a crib in Scotland one week,</span>
   <span id="f000899">and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.</span>
   <span id="f000900">I’ve been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000901">“I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000902">I’ve had one or two little turns also with Mr.&#160;John Clay,</span>
   <span id="f000903">and I agree with you that he is at the head of his profession.</span>
   <span id="f000904">It is past ten,</span>
   <span id="f000905">however,</span>
   <span id="f000906">and quite time that we started.</span>
   <span id="f000907">If you two will take the first hansom,</span>
   <span id="f000908">Watson and I will follow in the second.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000909">Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000910">We rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit streets until we emerged into Farrington Street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">“We are close there now,” my friend remarked.</span>
   <span id="f000912">“This fellow Merryweather is a bank director,</span>
   <span id="f000913">and personally interested in the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000914">I thought it as well to have Jones with us also.</span>
   <span id="f000915">He is not a bad fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000916">though an absolute imbecile in his profession.</span>
   <span id="f000917">He has one positive virtue.</span>
   <span id="f000918">He is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws upon anyone.</span>
   <span id="f000919">Here we are,</span>
   <span id="f000920">and they are waiting for us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000921">We had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had found ourselves in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000922">Our cabs were dismissed,</span>
   <span id="f000923">and,</span>
   <span id="f000924">following the guidance of Mr.&#160;Merryweather,</span>
   <span id="f000925">we passed down a narrow passage and through a side door,</span>
   <span id="f000926">which he opened for us.</span>
   <span id="f000927">Within there was a small corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000928">which ended in a very massive iron gate.</span>
   <span id="f000929">This also was opened,</span>
   <span id="f000930">and led down a flight of winding stone steps,</span>
   <span id="f000931">which terminated at another formidable gate.</span>
   <span id="f000932">Mr.&#160;Merryweather stopped to light a lantern,</span>
   <span id="f000933">and then conducted us down a dark,</span>
   <span id="f000934">earth-smelling passage,</span>
   <span id="f000935">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000936">after opening a third door,</span>
   <span id="f000937">into a huge vault or cellar,</span>
   <span id="f000938">which was piled all round with crates and massive boxes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">“You are not very vulnerable from above,” Holmes remarked as he held up the lantern and gazed about him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000940">“Nor from below,” said Mr.&#160;Merryweather,</span>
   <span id="f000941">striking his stick upon the flags which lined the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000942">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000943">dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000944">it sounds quite hollow!” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000945">looking up in surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000946">“I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!” said Holmes severely.</span>
   <span id="f000947">“You have already imperilled the whole success of our expedition.</span>
   <span id="f000948">Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit down upon one of those boxes,</span>
   <span id="f000949">and not to interfere?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">The solemn Mr.&#160;Merryweather perched himself upon a crate,</span>
   <span id="f000951">with a very injured expression upon his face,</span>
   <span id="f000952">while Holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and,</span>
   <span id="f000953">with the lantern and a magnifying lens,</span>
   <span id="f000954">began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones.</span>
   <span id="f000955">A few seconds sufficed to satisfy him,</span>
   <span id="f000956">for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his pocket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000957">“We have at least an hour before us,” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000958">“for they can hardly take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely in bed.</span>
   <span id="f000959">Then they will not lose a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000960">for the sooner they do their work the longer time they will have for their escape.</span>
   <span id="f000961">We are at present,</span>
   <span id="f000962">Doctor – as no doubt you have divined – in the cellar of the City branch of one of the principal London banks.</span>
   <span id="f000963">Mr.&#160;Merryweather is the chairman of directors,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring criminals of London should take a considerable interest in this cellar at present.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000965">“It is our French gold,” whispered the director.</span>
   <span id="f000966">“We have had several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000967">“Your French gold?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000968">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000969">We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and borrowed for that purpose 30,000 napoleons from the Bank of France.</span>
   <span id="f000970">It has become known that we have never had occasion to unpack the money,</span>
   <span id="f000971">and that it is still lying in our cellar.</span>
   <span id="f000972">The crate upon which I sit contains 2,000 napoleons packed between layers of lead foil.</span>
   <span id="f000973">Our reserve of bullion is much larger at present than is usually kept in a single branch office,</span>
   <span id="f000974">and the directors have had misgivings upon the subject.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000975">“Which were very well justified,” observed Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000976">“And now it is time that we arranged our little plans.</span>
   <span id="f000977">I expect that within an hour matters will come to a head.</span>
   <span id="f000978">In the meantime Mr.&#160;Merryweather,</span>
   <span id="f000979">we must put the screen over that dark lantern.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000980">“And sit in the dark?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“I am afraid so.</span>
   <span id="f000982">I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000983">and I thought that,</span>
   <span id="f000984">as we were a partie carrée,</span>
   <span id="f000985">you might have your rubber after all.</span>
   <span id="f000986">But I see that the enemy’s preparations have gone so far that we cannot risk the presence of a light.</span>
   <span id="f000987">And,</span>
   <span id="f000988">first of all,</span>
   <span id="f000989">we must choose our positions.</span>
   <span id="f000990">These are daring men,</span>
   <span id="f000991">and though we shall take them at a disadvantage,</span>
   <span id="f000992">they may do us some harm unless we are careful.</span>
   <span id="f000993">I shall stand behind this crate,</span>
   <span id="f000994">and do you conceal yourselves behind those.</span>
   <span id="f000995">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000996">when I flash a light upon them,</span>
   <span id="f000997">close in swiftly.</span>
   <span id="f000998">If they fire,</span>
   <span id="f000999">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f001000">have no compunction about shooting them down.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001001">I placed my revolver,</span>
   <span id="f001002">cocked,</span>
   <span id="f001003">upon the top of the wooden case behind which I crouched.</span>
   <span id="f001004">Holmes shot the slide across the front of his lantern and left us in pitch darkness – such an absolute darkness as I have never before experienced.</span>
   <span id="f001005">The smell of hot metal remained to assure us that the light was still there,</span>
   <span id="f001006">ready to flash out at a moment’s notice.</span>
   <span id="f001007">To me,</span>
   <span id="f001008">with my nerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy,</span>
   <span id="f001009">there was something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom,</span>
   <span id="f001010">and in the cold dank air of the vault.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001011">“They have but one retreat,” whispered Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f001012">“That is back through the house into Saxe-Coburg Square.</span>
   <span id="f001013">I hope that you have done what I asked you,</span>
   <span id="f001014">Jones?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001015">“I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001016">“Then we have stopped all the holes.</span>
   <span id="f001017">And now we must be silent and wait.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001018">What a time it seemed!</span>
   <span id="f001019">From comparing notes afterwards it was but an hour and a quarter,</span>
   <span id="f001020">yet it appeared to me that the night must have almost gone and the dawn be breaking above us.</span>
   <span id="f001021">My limbs were weary and stiff,</span>
   <span id="f001022">for I feared to change my position;</span>
   <span id="f001023">yet my nerves were worked up to the highest pitch of tension,</span>
   <span id="f001024">and my hearing was so acute that I could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions,</span>
   <span id="f001025">but I could distinguish the deeper,</span>
   <span id="f001026">heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the thin,</span>
   <span id="f001027">sighing note of the bank director.</span>
   <span id="f001028">From my position I could look over the case in the direction of the floor.</span>
   <span id="f001029">Suddenly my eyes caught the glint of a light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001030">At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement.</span>
   <span id="f001031">Then it lengthened out until it became a yellow line,</span>
   <span id="f001032">and then,</span>
   <span id="f001033">without any warning or sound,</span>
   <span id="f001034">a gash seemed to open and a hand appeared,</span>
   <span id="f001035">a white,</span>
   <span id="f001036">almost womanly hand,</span>
   <span id="f001037">which felt about in the centre of the little area of light.</span>
   <span id="f001038">For a minute or more the hand,</span>
   <span id="f001039">with its writhing fingers,</span>
   <span id="f001040">protruded out of the floor.</span>
   <span id="f001041">Then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared,</span>
   <span id="f001042">and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between the stones.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001043">Its disappearance,</span>
   <span id="f001044">however,</span>
   <span id="f001045">was but momentary.</span>
   <span id="f001046">With a rending,</span>
   <span id="f001047">tearing sound,</span>
   <span id="f001048">one of the broad,</span>
   <span id="f001049">white stones turned over upon its side and left a square,</span>
   <span id="f001050">gaping hole,</span>
   <span id="f001051">through which streamed the light of a lantern.</span>
   <span id="f001052">Over the edge there peeped a clean-cut,</span>
   <span id="f001053">boyish face,</span>
   <span id="f001054">which looked keenly about it,</span>
   <span id="f001055">and then,</span>
   <span id="f001056">with a hand on either side of the aperture,</span>
   <span id="f001057">drew itself shoulder-high and waist-high,</span>
   <span id="f001058">until one knee rested upon the edge.</span>
   <span id="f001059">In another instant he stood at the side of the hole and was hauling after him a companion,</span>
   <span id="f001060">lithe and small like himself,</span>
   <span id="f001061">with a pale face and a shock of very red hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001062">“It’s all clear,” he whispered.</span>
   <span id="f001063">“Have you the chisel and the bags?</span>
   <span id="f001064">Great Scott!</span>
   <span id="f001065">Jump,</span>
   <span id="f001066">Archie,</span>
   <span id="f001067">jump,</span>
   <span id="f001068">and I’ll swing for it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001069">Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar.</span>
   <span id="f001070">The other dived down the hole,</span>
   <span id="f001071">and I heard the sound of rending cloth as Jones clutched at his skirts.</span>
   <span id="f001072">The light flashed upon the barrel of a revolver,</span>
   <span id="f001073">but Holmes’ hunting crop came down on the man’s wrist,</span>
   <span id="f001074">and the pistol clinked upon the stone floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001075">“It’s no use,</span>
   <span id="f001076">John Clay,” said Holmes blandly.</span>
   <span id="f001077">“You have no chance at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001078">“So I see,” the other answered with the utmost coolness.</span>
   <span id="f001079">“I fancy that my pal is all right,</span>
   <span id="f001080">though I see you have got his coat-tails.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001081">“There are three men waiting for him at the door,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001082">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001083">indeed!</span>
   <span id="f001084">You seem to have done the thing very completely.</span>
   <span id="f001085">I must compliment you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001086">“And I you,” Holmes answered.</span>
   <span id="f001087">“Your red-headed idea was very new and effective.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001088">“You’ll see your pal again presently,” said Jones.</span>
   <span id="f001089">“He’s quicker at climbing down holes than I am.</span>
   <span id="f001090">Just hold out while I fix the derbies.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001091">“I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands,” remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists.</span>
   <span id="f001092">“You may not be aware that I have royal blood in my veins.</span>
   <span id="f001093">Have the goodness,</span>
   <span id="f001094">also,</span>
   <span id="f001095">when you address me always to say ’sir’ and ’please.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001096">“All right,” said Jones with a stare and a snigger.</span>
   <span id="f001097">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001098">would you please,</span>
   <span id="f001099">sir,</span>
   <span id="f001100">march upstairs,</span>
   <span id="f001101">where we can get a cab to carry your Highness to the police-station?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001102">“That is better,” said John Clay serenely.</span>
   <span id="f001103">He made a sweeping bow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001104">“Really,</span>
   <span id="f001105">Mr.&#160;Holmes,” said Mr.&#160;Merryweather as we followed them from the cellar,</span>
   <span id="f001106">“I do not know how the bank can thank you or repay you.</span>
   <span id="f001107">There is no doubt that you have detected and defeated in the most complete manner one of the most determined attempts at bank robbery that have ever come within my experience.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001108">“I have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with Mr.&#160;John Clay,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f001109">“I have been at some small expense over this matter,</span>
   <span id="f001110">which I shall expect the bank to refund,</span>
   <span id="f001111">but beyond that I am amply repaid by having had an experience which is in many ways unique,</span>
   <span id="f001112">and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of the Red-headed League.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001113">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f001114">Watson,” he explained in the early hours of the morning as we sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street,</span>
   <span id="f001115">“it was perfectly obvious from the first that the only possible object of this rather fantastic business of the advertisement of the League,</span>
   <span id="f001116">and the copying of the ’Encyclopaedia,’ must be to get this not over-bright pawnbroker out of the way for a number of hours every day.</span>
   <span id="f001117">It was a curious way of managing it,</span>
   <span id="f001118">but,</span>
   <span id="f001119">really,</span>
   <span id="f001120">it would be difficult to suggest a better.</span>
   <span id="f001121">The method was no doubt suggested to Clay’s ingenious mind by the colour of his accomplice’s hair.</span>
   <span id="f001122">The 4 pounds a week was a lure which must draw him,</span>
   <span id="f001123">and what was it to them,</span>
   <span id="f001124">who were playing for thousands?</span>
   <span id="f001125">They put in the advertisement,</span>
   <span id="f001126">one rogue has the temporary office,</span>
   <span id="f001127">the other rogue incites the man to apply for it,</span>
   <span id="f001128">and together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the week.</span>
   <span id="f001129">From the time that I heard of the assistant having come for half wages,</span>
   <span id="f001130">it was obvious to me that he had some strong motive for securing the situation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001131">“But how could you guess what the motive was?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001132">Had there been women in the house,</span>
   <span id="f001133">I should have suspected a mere vulgar intrigue.</span>
   <span id="f001134">That,</span>
   <span id="f001135">however,</span>
   <span id="f001136">was out of the question.</span>
   <span id="f001137">The man’s business was a small one,</span>
   <span id="f001138">and there was nothing in his house which could account for such elaborate preparations,</span>
   <span id="f001139">and such an expenditure as they were at.</span>
   <span id="f001140">It must,</span>
   <span id="f001141">then,</span>
   <span id="f001142">be something out of the house.</span>
   <span id="f001143">What could it be?</span>
   <span id="f001144">I thought of the assistant’s fondness for photography,</span>
   <span id="f001145">and his trick of vanishing into the cellar.</span>
   <span id="f001146">The cellar!</span>
   <span id="f001147">There was the end of this tangled clue.</span>
   <span id="f001148">Then I made inquiries as to this mysterious assistant and found that I had to deal with one of the coolest and most daring criminals in London.</span>
   <span id="f001149">He was doing something in the cellar – something which took many hours a day for months on end.</span>
   <span id="f001150">What could it be,</span>
   <span id="f001151">once more?</span>
   <span id="f001152">I could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel to some other building.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001153">“So far I had got when we went to visit the scene of action.</span>
   <span id="f001154">I surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick.</span>
   <span id="f001155">I was ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind.</span>
   <span id="f001156">It was not in front.</span>
   <span id="f001157">Then I rang the bell,</span>
   <span id="f001158">and,</span>
   <span id="f001159">as I hoped,</span>
   <span id="f001160">the assistant answered it.</span>
   <span id="f001161">We have had some skirmishes,</span>
   <span id="f001162">but we had never set eyes upon each other before.</span>
   <span id="f001163">I hardly looked at his face.</span>
   <span id="f001164">His knees were what I wished to see.</span>
   <span id="f001165">You must yourself have remarked how worn,</span>
   <span id="f001166">wrinkled,</span>
   <span id="f001167">and stained they were.</span>
   <span id="f001168">They spoke of those hours of burrowing.</span>
   <span id="f001169">The only remaining point was what they were burrowing for.</span>
   <span id="f001170">I walked round the corner,</span>
   <span id="f001171">saw the City and Suburban Bank abutted on our friend’s premises,</span>
   <span id="f001172">and felt that I had solved my problem.</span>
   <span id="f001173">When you drove home after the concert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the chairman of the bank directors,</span>
   <span id="f001174">with the result that you have seen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001175">“And how could you tell that they would make their attempt to-night?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001176">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001177">when they closed their League offices that was a sign that they cared no longer about Mr.&#160;Jabez Wilson’s presence – in other words,</span>
   <span id="f001178">that they had completed their tunnel.</span>
   <span id="f001179">But it was essential that they should use it soon,</span>
   <span id="f001180">as it might be discovered,</span>
   <span id="f001181">or the bullion might be removed.</span>
   <span id="f001182">Saturday would suit them better than any other day,</span>
   <span id="f001183">as it would give them two days for their escape.</span>
   <span id="f001184">For all these reasons I expected them to come to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001185">“You reasoned it out beautifully,” I exclaimed in unfeigned admiration.</span>
   <span id="f001186">“It is so long a chain,</span>
   <span id="f001187">and yet every link rings true.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001188">“It saved me from ennui,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f001189">yawning.</span>
   <span id="f001190">“Alas!</span>
   <span id="f001191">I already feel it closing in upon me.</span>
   <span id="f001192">My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence.</span>
   <span id="f001193">These little problems help me to do so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001194">“And you are a benefactor of the race,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001195">He shrugged his shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f001196">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001197">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f001198">after all,</span>
   <span id="f001199">it is of some little use,” he remarked.</span>
   <span id="f001200">“’L’homme c’est rien – l’oeuvre c’est tout,’ as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

