<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>mb</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Flappers and Philosophers</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Bernice Bobs Her Hair</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000008">I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000009">After dark on Saturday night one could stand on the first tee of the golf-course and see the country-club windows as a yellow expanse over a very black and wavy ocean.</span>
   <span id="f000010">The waves of this ocean,</span>
   <span id="f000011">so to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000012">were the heads of many curious caddies,</span>
   <span id="f000013">a few of the more ingenious chauffeurs,</span>
   <span id="f000014">the golf professional’s deaf sister – and there were usually several stray,</span>
   <span id="f000015">diffident waves who might have rolled inside had they so desired.</span>
   <span id="f000016">This was the gallery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">The balcony was inside.</span>
   <span id="f000018">It consisted of the circle of wicker chairs that lined the wall of the combination clubroom and ballroom.</span>
   <span id="f000019">At these Saturday-night dances it was largely feminine;</span>
   <span id="f000020">a great babel of middle-aged ladies with sharp eyes and icy hearts behind lorgnettes and large bosoms.</span>
   <span id="f000021">The main function of the balcony was critical,</span>
   <span id="f000022">it occasionally showed grudging admiration,</span>
   <span id="f000023">but never approval,</span>
   <span id="f000024">for it is well known among ladies over thirty-five that when the younger set dance in the summer-time it is with the very worst intentions in the world,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and if they are not bombarded with stony eyes stray couples will dance weird barbaric interludes in the corners,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and the more popular,</span>
   <span id="f000027">more dangerous,</span>
   <span id="f000028">girls will sometimes be kissed in the parked limousines of unsuspecting dowagers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">But,</span>
   <span id="f000030">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000031">this critical circle is not close enough to the stage to see the actors’ faces and catch the subtler byplay.</span>
   <span id="f000032">It can only frown and lean,</span>
   <span id="f000033">ask questions and make satisfactory deductions from its set of postulates,</span>
   <span id="f000034">such as the one which states that every young man with a large income leads the life of a hunted partridge.</span>
   <span id="f000035">It never really appreciates the drama of the shifting,</span>
   <span id="f000036">semi-cruel world of adolescence.</span>
   <span id="f000037">No;</span>
   <span id="f000038">boxes,</span>
   <span id="f000039">orchestra-circle,</span>
   <span id="f000040">principals,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and chorus be represented by the medley of faces and voices that sway to the plaintive African rhythm of Dyer’s dance orchestra.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">From sixteen-year-old Otis Ormonde,</span>
   <span id="f000043">who has two more years at Hill School,</span>
   <span id="f000044">to G.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Reece Stoddard,</span>
   <span id="f000046">over whose bureau at home hangs a Harvard law diploma;</span>
   <span id="f000047">from little Madeleine Hogue,</span>
   <span id="f000048">whose hair still feels strange and uncomfortable on top of her head,</span>
   <span id="f000049">to Bessie MacRae,</span>
   <span id="f000050">who has been the life of the party a little too long – more than ten years – the medley is not only the centre of the stage but contains the only people capable of getting an unobstructed view of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">With a flourish and a bang the music stops.</span>
   <span id="f000052">The couples exchange artificial,</span>
   <span id="f000053">effortless smiles,</span>
   <span id="f000054">facetiously repeat “LA-de-DA-DA dum-DUM,” and then the clatter of young feminine voices soars over the burst of clapping.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">A few disappointed stags caught in midfloor as they had been about to cut in subsided listlessly back to the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000056">because this was not like the riotous Christmas dances – these summer hops were considered just pleasantly warm and exciting,</span>
   <span id="f000057">where even the younger marrieds rose and performed ancient waltzes and terrifying fox trots to the tolerant amusement of their younger brothers and sisters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">Warren McIntyre,</span>
   <span id="f000059">who casually attended Yale,</span>
   <span id="f000060">being one of the unfortunate stags,</span>
   <span id="f000061">felt in his dinner-coat pocket for a cigarette and strolled out onto the wide,</span>
   <span id="f000062">semidark veranda,</span>
   <span id="f000063">where couples were scattered at tables,</span>
   <span id="f000064">filling the lantern-hung night with vague words and hazy laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000065">He nodded here and there at the less absorbed and as he passed each couple some half-forgotten fragment of a story played in his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000066">for it was not a large city and every one was Who’s Who to every one else’s past.</span>
   <span id="f000067">There,</span>
   <span id="f000068">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000069">were Jim Strain and Ethel Demorest,</span>
   <span id="f000070">who had been privately engaged for three years.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Every one knew that as soon as Jim managed to hold a job for more than two months she would marry him.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Yet how bored they both looked,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and how wearily Ethel regarded Jim sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000074">as if she wondered why she had trained the vines of her affection on such a wind-shaken poplar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">Warren was nineteen and rather pitying with those of his friends who hadn’t gone East to college.</span>
   <span id="f000076">But,</span>
   <span id="f000077">like most boys,</span>
   <span id="f000078">he bragged tremendously about the girls of his city when he was away from it.</span>
   <span id="f000079">There was Genevieve Ormonde,</span>
   <span id="f000080">who regularly made the rounds of dances,</span>
   <span id="f000081">house-parties,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and football games at Princeton,</span>
   <span id="f000083">Yale,</span>
   <span id="f000084">Williams,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and Cornell;</span>
   <span id="f000086">there was black-eyed Roberta Dillon,</span>
   <span id="f000087">who was quite as famous to her own generation as Hiram Johnson or Ty Cobb;</span>
   <span id="f000088">and,</span>
   <span id="f000089">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000090">there was Marjorie Harvey,</span>
   <span id="f000091">who besides having a fairylike face and a dazzling,</span>
   <span id="f000092">bewildering tongue was already justly celebrated for having turned five cart-wheels in succession during the last pump-and-slipper dance at New Haven.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">Warren,</span>
   <span id="f000094">who had grown up across the street from Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000095">had long been “crazy about her.” Sometimes she seemed to reciprocate his feeling with a faint gratitude,</span>
   <span id="f000096">but she had tried him by her infallible test and informed him gravely that she did not love him.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Her test was that when she was away from him she forgot him and had affairs with other boys.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Warren found this discouraging,</span>
   <span id="f000099">especially as Marjorie had been making little trips all summer,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and for the first two or three days after each arrival home he saw great heaps of mail on the Harveys’ hall table addressed to her in various masculine handwritings.</span>
   <span id="f000101">To make matters worse,</span>
   <span id="f000102">all during the month of August she had been visited by her cousin Bernice from Eau Claire,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and it seemed impossible to see her alone.</span>
   <span id="f000104">It was always necessary to hunt round and find some one to take care of Bernice.</span>
   <span id="f000105">As August waned this was becoming more and more difficult.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">Much as Warren worshipped Marjorie he had to admit that Cousin Bernice was sorta dopeless.</span>
   <span id="f000107">She was pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000108">with dark hair and high color,</span>
   <span id="f000109">but she was no fun on a party.</span>
   <span id="f000110">Every Saturday night he danced a long arduous duty dance with her to please Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000111">but he had never been anything but bored in her company.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“Warren” – a soft voice at his elbow broke in upon his thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and he turned to see Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000114">flushed and radiant as usual.</span>
   <span id="f000115">She laid a hand on his shoulder and a glow settled almost imperceptibly over him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“Warren,” she whispered “do something for me – dance with Bernice.</span>
   <span id="f000117">She’s been stuck with little Otis Ormonde for almost an hour.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">Warren’s glow faded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“Why – sure,” he answered half-heartedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“You don’t mind,</span>
   <span id="f000121">do you?</span>
   <span id="f000122">I’ll see that you don’t get stuck.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“’Sall right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">Marjorie smiled – that smile that was thanks enough.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">“You’re an angel,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and I’m obliged loads.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">With a sigh the angel glanced round the veranda,</span>
   <span id="f000128">but Bernice and Otis were not in sight.</span>
   <span id="f000129">He wandered back inside,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and there in front of the women’s dressing-room he found Otis in the centre of a group of young men who were convulsed with laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Otis was brandishing a piece of timber he had picked up,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and discoursing volubly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“She’s gone in to fix her hair,” he announced wildly.</span>
   <span id="f000134">“I’m waiting to dance another hour with her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">Their laughter was renewed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">“Why don’t some of you cut in?” cried Otis resentfully.</span>
   <span id="f000137">“She likes more variety.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000139">Otis,” suggested a friend “you’ve just barely got used to her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“Why the two-by-four,</span>
   <span id="f000141">Otis?” inquired Warren,</span>
   <span id="f000142">smiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“The two-by-four?</span>
   <span id="f000144">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000145">this?</span>
   <span id="f000146">This is a club.</span>
   <span id="f000147">When she comes out I’ll hit her on the head and knock her in again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">Warren collapsed on a settee and howled with glee.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“Never mind,</span>
   <span id="f000150">Otis,” he articulated finally.</span>
   <span id="f000151">“I’m relieving you this time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">Otis simulated a sudden fainting attack and handed the stick to Warren.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“If you need it,</span>
   <span id="f000154">old man,” he said hoarsely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">No matter how beautiful or brilliant a girl may be,</span>
   <span id="f000156">the reputation of not being frequently cut in on makes her position at a dance unfortunate.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Perhaps boys prefer her company to that of the butterflies with whom they dance a dozen times an but,</span>
   <span id="f000158">youth in this jazz-nourished generation is temperamentally restless,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and the idea of fox-trotting more than one full fox trot with the same girl is distasteful,</span>
   <span id="f000160">not to say odious.</span>
   <span id="f000161">When it comes to several dances and the intermissions between she can be quite sure that a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000162">once relieved,</span>
   <span id="f000163">will never tread on her wayward toes again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">Warren danced the next full dance with Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and finally,</span>
   <span id="f000166">thankful for the intermission,</span>
   <span id="f000167">he led her to a table on the veranda.</span>
   <span id="f000168">There was a moment’s silence while she did unimpressive things with her fan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“It’s hotter here than in Eau Claire,” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">Warren stifled a sigh and nodded.</span>
   <span id="f000171">It might be for all he knew or cared.</span>
   <span id="f000172">He wondered idly whether she was a poor conversationalist because she got no attention or got no attention because she was a poor conversationalist.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“You going to be here much longer?” he asked and then turned rather red.</span>
   <span id="f000174">She might suspect his reasons for asking.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“Another week,” she answered,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and stared at him as if to lunge at his next remark when it left his lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">Warren fidgeted.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Then with a sudden charitable impulse he decided to try part of his line on her.</span>
   <span id="f000179">He turned and looked at her eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“You’ve got an awfully kissable mouth,” he began quietly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">This was a remark that he sometimes made to girls at college proms when they were talking in just such half dark as this.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Bernice distinctly jumped.</span>
   <span id="f000183">She turned an ungraceful red and became clumsy with her fan.</span>
   <span id="f000184">No one had ever made such a remark to her before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“Fresh!” – the word had slipped out before she realized it,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and she bit her lip.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Too late she decided to be amused,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and offered him a flustered smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">Warren was annoyed.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Though not accustomed to have that remark taken seriously,</span>
   <span id="f000191">still it usually provoked a laugh or a paragraph of sentimental banter.</span>
   <span id="f000192">And he hated to be called fresh,</span>
   <span id="f000193">except in a joking way.</span>
   <span id="f000194">His charitable impulse died and he switched the topic.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Jim Strain and Ethel Demorest sitting out as usual,” he commented.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">This was more in Bernice’s line,</span>
   <span id="f000197">but a faint regret mingled with her relief as the subject changed.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Men did not talk to her about kissable mouths,</span>
   <span id="f000199">but she knew that they talked in some such way to other girls.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000201">yes,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000203">“I hear they’ve been mooning around for years without a red penny.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Isn’t it silly?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">Warren’s disgust increased.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Jim Strain was a close friend of his brother’s,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and anyway he considered it bad form to sneer at people for not having money.</span>
   <span id="f000208">But Bernice had had no intention of sneering.</span>
   <span id="f000209">She was merely nervous.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000210">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000211">When Marjorie and Bernice reached home at half after midnight they said good night at the top of the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Though cousins,</span>
   <span id="f000213">they were not intimates.</span>
   <span id="f000214">As a matter of fact Marjorie had no female intimates – she considered girls stupid.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Bernice on the contrary all through this parent-arranged visit had rather longed to exchange those confidences flavored with giggles and tears that she considered an indispensable factor in all feminine intercourse.</span>
   <span id="f000216">But in this respect she found Marjorie rather cold;</span>
   <span id="f000217">felt somehow the same difficulty in talking to her that she had in talking to men.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Marjorie never giggled,</span>
   <span id="f000219">was never frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000220">seldom embarrassed,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and in fact had very few of the qualities which Bernice considered appropriately and blessedly feminine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">As Bernice busied herself with tooth-brush and paste this night she wondered for the hundredth time why she never had any attention when she was away from home.</span>
   <span id="f000223">That her family were the wealthiest in Eau Claire;</span>
   <span id="f000224">that her mother entertained tremendously,</span>
   <span id="f000225">gave little diners for her daughter before all dances and bought her a car of her own to drive round in,</span>
   <span id="f000226">never occurred to her as factors in her home-town social success.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Like most girls she had been brought up on the warm milk prepared by Annie Fellows Johnston and on novels in which the female was beloved because of certain mysterious womanly qualities always mentioned but never displayed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">Bernice felt a vague pain that she was not at present engaged in being popular.</span>
   <span id="f000229">She did not know that had it not been for Marjorie’s campaigning she would have danced the entire evening with one man;</span>
   <span id="f000230">but she knew that even in Eau Claire other girls with less position and less pulchritude were given a much bigger rush.</span>
   <span id="f000231">She attributed this to something subtly unscrupulous in those girls.</span>
   <span id="f000232">It had never worried her,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and if it had her mother would have assured her that the other girls cheapened themselves and that men really respected girls like Bernice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">She turned out the light in her bathroom,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and on an impulse decided to go in and chat for a moment with her aunt Josephine,</span>
   <span id="f000236">whose light was still on.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Her soft slippers bore her noiselessly down the carpeted hall,</span>
   <span id="f000238">but hearing voices inside she stopped near the partly openers door.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Then she caught her own name,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and without any definite intention of eavesdropping lingered – and the thread of the conversation going on inside pierced her consciousness sharply as if it had been drawn through with a needle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“She’s absolutely hopeless!” It was Marjorie’s voice.</span>
   <span id="f000242">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000243">I know what you’re going to say!</span>
   <span id="f000244">So many people have told you how pretty and sweet she is,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and how she can cook!</span>
   <span id="f000246">What of it?</span>
   <span id="f000247">She has a bum time.</span>
   <span id="f000248">Men don’t like her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">“What’s a little cheap popularity?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">Mrs.&#160;Harvey sounded annoyed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“It’s everything when you’re eighteen,” said Marjorie emphatically.</span>
   <span id="f000252">“I’ve done my best.</span>
   <span id="f000253">I’ve been polite and I’ve made men dance with her,</span>
   <span id="f000254">but they just won’t stand being bored.</span>
   <span id="f000255">When I think of that gorgeous coloring wasted on such a ninny,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and think what Martha Carey could do with it – oh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">“There’s no courtesy these days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">Mrs.&#160;Harvey’s voice implied that modern situations were too much for her.</span>
   <span id="f000259">When she was a girl all young ladies who belonged to nice families had glorious times.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“Well,” said Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000261">“no girl can permanently bolster up a lame-duck visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000262">because these days it’s every girl for herself.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I’ve even tried to drop hints about clothes and things,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and she’s been furious – given me the funniest looks.</span>
   <span id="f000265">She’s sensitive enough to know she’s not getting away with much,</span>
   <span id="f000266">but I’ll bet she consoles herself by thinking that she’s very virtuous and that I’m too gay and fickle and will come to a bad end.</span>
   <span id="f000267">All unpopular girls think that way.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Sour grapes!</span>
   <span id="f000269">Sarah Hopkins refers to Genevieve and Roberta and me as gardenia girls!</span>
   <span id="f000270">I’ll bet she’d give ten years of her life and her European education to be a gardenia girl and have three or four men in love with her and be cut in on every few feet at dances.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“It seems to me,” interrupted Mrs.&#160;Harvey rather wearily,</span>
   <span id="f000272">“that you ought to be able to do something for Bernice.</span>
   <span id="f000273">I know she’s not very vivacious.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">Marjorie groaned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“Vivacious!</span>
   <span id="f000276">Good grief!</span>
   <span id="f000277">I’ve never heard her say anything to a boy except that it’s hot or the floor’s crowded or that she’s going to school in New York next year.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Sometimes she asks them what kind of car they have and tells them the kind she has.</span>
   <span id="f000279">Thrilling!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">There was a short silence and then Mrs.&#160;Harvey took up her refrain:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“All I know is that other girls not half so sweet and attractive get partners.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Martha Carey,</span>
   <span id="f000283">for instance,</span>
   <span id="f000284">is stout and loud,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and her mother is distinctly common.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Roberta Dillon is so thin this year that she looks as though Arizona were the place for her.</span>
   <span id="f000287">She’s dancing herself to death.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000289">mother,” objected Marjorie impatiently,</span>
   <span id="f000290">“Martha is cheerful and awfully witty and an awfully slick girl,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and Roberta’s a marvellous dancer.</span>
   <span id="f000292">She’s been popular for ages!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">Mrs.&#160;Harvey yawned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“I think it’s that crazy Indian blood in Bernice,” continued Marjorie.</span>
   <span id="f000295">“Maybe she’s a reversion to type.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Indian women all just sat round and never said anything.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“Go to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000298">you silly child,” laughed Mrs.&#160;Harvey.</span>
   <span id="f000299">“I wouldn’t have told you that if I’d thought you were going to remember it.</span>
   <span id="f000300">And I think most of your ideas are perfectly idiotic,” she finished sleepily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">There was another silence,</span>
   <span id="f000302">while Marjorie considered whether or not convincing her mother was worth the trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000303">People over forty can seldom be permanently convinced of anything.</span>
   <span id="f000304">At eighteen our convictions are hills from which we look;</span>
   <span id="f000305">at forty-five they are caves in which we hide.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">Having decided this,</span>
   <span id="f000307">Marjorie said good night.</span>
   <span id="f000308">When she came out into the hall it was quite empty.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000309">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000310">While Marjorie was breakfasting late next day Bernice came into the room with a rather formal good morning,</span>
   <span id="f000311">sat down opposite,</span>
   <span id="f000312">stared intently over and slightly moistened her lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“What’s on your mind?” inquired Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000314">rather puzzled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">Bernice paused before she threw her hand-grenade.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“I heard what you said about me to your mother last night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">Marjorie was startled,</span>
   <span id="f000318">but she showed only a faintly heightened color and her voice was quite even when she spoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“Where were you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“In the hall.</span>
   <span id="f000321">I didn’t mean to listen – at first.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">After an involuntary look of contempt Marjorie dropped her eyes and became very interested in balancing a stray corn-flake on her finger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“I guess I’d better go back to Eau Claire – if I’m such a nuisance.” Bernice’s lower lip was trembling violently and she continued on a wavering note:</span>
   <span id="f000324">“I’ve tried to be nice,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and – and I’ve been first neglected and then insulted.</span>
   <span id="f000326">No one ever visited me and got such treatment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">Marjorie was silent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“But I’m in the way,</span>
   <span id="f000329">I see.</span>
   <span id="f000330">I’m a drag on you.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Your friends don’t like me.” She paused,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and then remembered another one of her grievances.</span>
   <span id="f000333">“Of course I was furious last week when you tried to hint to me that that dress was unbecoming.</span>
   <span id="f000334">Don’t you think I know how to dress myself?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“No,” murmured less than half-aloud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“I didn’t hint anything,” said Marjorie succinctly.</span>
   <span id="f000338">“I said,</span>
   <span id="f000339">as I remember,</span>
   <span id="f000340">that it was better to wear a becoming dress three times straight than to alternate it with two frights.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">“Do you think that was a very nice thing to say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">“I wasn’t trying to be nice.” Then after a pause:</span>
   <span id="f000343">“When do you want to go?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">Bernice drew in her breath sharply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“Oh!” It was a little half-cry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">Marjorie looked up in surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">“Didn’t you say you were going?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000349">but – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000351">you were only bluffing!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">They stared at each other across the breakfast-table for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000353">Misty waves were passing before Bernice’s eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000354">while Marjorie’s face wore that rather hard expression that she used when slightly intoxicated undergraduate’s were making love to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“So you were bluffing,” she repeated as if it were what she might have expected.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">Bernice admitted it by bursting into tears.</span>
   <span id="f000357">Marjorie’s eyes showed boredom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">“You’re my cousin,” sobbed Bernice.</span>
   <span id="f000359">“I’m v-v-visiting you.</span>
   <span id="f000360">I was to stay a month,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and if I go home my mother will know and she’ll wah-wonder – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">Marjorie waited until the shower of broken words collapsed into little sniffles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">“I’ll give you my month’s allowance,” she said coldly,</span>
   <span id="f000364">“and you can spend this last week anywhere you want.</span>
   <span id="f000365">There’s a very nice hotel – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">Bernice’s sobs rose to a flute note,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and rising of a sudden she fled from the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">An hour later,</span>
   <span id="f000369">while Marjorie was in the library absorbed in composing one of those non-committal marvelously elusive letters that only a young girl can write,</span>
   <span id="f000370">Bernice reappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000371">very red-eyed,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and consciously calm.</span>
   <span id="f000373">She cast no glance at Marjorie but took a book at random from the shelf and sat down as if to read.</span>
   <span id="f000374">Marjorie seemed absorbed in her letter and continued writing.</span>
   <span id="f000375">When the clock showed noon Bernice closed her book with a snap.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">“I suppose I’d better get my railroad ticket.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">This was not the beginning of the speech she had rehearsed up-stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000378">but as Marjorie was not getting her cues – wasn’t urging her to be reasonable;</span>
   <span id="f000379">it’s an a mistake – it was the best opening she could muster.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">“Just wait till I finish this letter,” said Marjorie without looking round.</span>
   <span id="f000381">“I want to get it off in the next mail.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">After another minute,</span>
   <span id="f000383">during which her pen scratched busily,</span>
   <span id="f000384">she turned round and relaxed with an air of “at your service.” Again Bernice had to speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">“Do you want me to go home?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">“Well,” said Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000387">considering,</span>
   <span id="f000388">“I suppose if you’re not having a good time you’d better go.</span>
   <span id="f000389">No use being miserable.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">“Don’t you think common kindness – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000392">please don’t quote ’Little Women’!” cried Marjorie impatiently.</span>
   <span id="f000393">“That’s out of style.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“You think so?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“Heavens,</span>
   <span id="f000396">yes!</span>
   <span id="f000397">What modern girl could live like those inane females?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">“They were the models for our mothers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">Marjorie laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000401">they were – not!</span>
   <span id="f000402">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000403">our mothers were all very well in their way,</span>
   <span id="f000404">but they know very little about their daughters’ problems.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">Bernice drew herself up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“Please don’t talk about my mother.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">Marjorie laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“I don’t think I mentioned her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">Bernice felt that she was being led away from her subject.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“Do you think you’ve treated me very well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“I’ve done my best.</span>
   <span id="f000412">You’re rather hard material to work with.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">The lids of Bernice’s eyes reddened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“I think you’re hard and selfish,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and you haven’t a feminine quality in you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000417">my Lord!” cried Marjorie in desperation “You little nut!</span>
   <span id="f000418">Girls like you are responsible for all the tiresome colorless marriages;</span>
   <span id="f000419">all those ghastly inefficiencies that pass as feminine qualities.</span>
   <span id="f000420">What a blow it must be when a man with imagination marries the beautiful bundle of clothes that he’s been building ideals round,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and finds that she’s just a weak,</span>
   <span id="f000422">whining,</span>
   <span id="f000423">cowardly mass of affectations!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">Bernice’s mouth had slipped half open.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“The womanly woman!” continued Marjorie.</span>
   <span id="f000426">“Her whole early life is occupied in whining criticisms of girls like me who really do have a good time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">Bernice’s jaw descended farther as Marjorie’s voice rose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">“There’s some excuse for an ugly girl whining.</span>
   <span id="f000429">If I’d been irretrievably ugly I’d never have forgiven my parents for bringing me into the world.</span>
   <span id="f000430">But you’re starting life without any handicap – ” Marjorie’s little fist clinched,</span>
   <span id="f000431">“If you expect me to weep with you you’ll be disappointed.</span>
   <span id="f000432">Go or stay,</span>
   <span id="f000433">just as you like.” And picking up her letters she left the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">Bernice claimed a headache and failed to appear at luncheon.</span>
   <span id="f000435">They had a matinée date for the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000436">but the headache persisting,</span>
   <span id="f000437">Marjorie made explanation to a not very downcast boy.</span>
   <span id="f000438">But when she returned late in the afternoon she found Bernice with a strangely set face waiting for her in her bedroom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">“I’ve decided,” began Bernice without preliminaries,</span>
   <span id="f000440">“that maybe you’re right about things – possibly not.</span>
   <span id="f000441">But if you’ll tell me why your friends aren’t – aren’t interested in me I’ll see if I can do what you want me to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">Marjorie was at the mirror shaking down her hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“Do you mean it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“Without reservations?</span>
   <span id="f000446">Will you do exactly what I say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000448">I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“Well nothing!</span>
   <span id="f000450">Will you do exactly as I say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“If they’re sensible things.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">“They’re not!</span>
   <span id="f000453">You’re no case for sensible things.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“Are you going to make – to recommend – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000456">everything.</span>
   <span id="f000457">If I tell you to take boxing-lessons you’ll have to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000458">Write home and tell your mother you’re going’ to stay another two weeks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“If you’ll tell me – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">“All right – I’ll just give you a few examples now.</span>
   <span id="f000461">First you have no ease of manner.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Why?</span>
   <span id="f000463">Because you’re never sure about your personal appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000464">When a girl feels that she’s perfectly groomed and dressed she can forget that part of her.</span>
   <span id="f000465">That’s charm.</span>
   <span id="f000466">The more parts of yourself you can afford to forget the more charm you have.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“Don’t I look all right?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000469">for instance you never take care of your eyebrows.</span>
   <span id="f000470">They’re black and lustrous,</span>
   <span id="f000471">but by leaving them straggly they’re a blemish.</span>
   <span id="f000472">They’d be beautiful if you’d take care of them in one-tenth the time you take doing nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000473">You’re going to brush them so that they’ll grow straight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">Bernice raised the brows in question.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“Do you mean to say that men notice eyebrows?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">“Yes – subconsciously.</span>
   <span id="f000477">And when you go home you ought to have your teeth straightened a little.</span>
   <span id="f000478">It’s almost imperceptible,</span>
   <span id="f000479">still – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">“But I thought,” interrupted Bernice in bewilderment,</span>
   <span id="f000481">“that you despised little dainty feminine things like that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">“I hate dainty minds,” answered Marjorie.</span>
   <span id="f000483">“But a girl has to be dainty in person.</span>
   <span id="f000484">If she looks like a million dollars she can talk about Russia,</span>
   <span id="f000485">ping-pong,</span>
   <span id="f000486">or the League of Nations and get away with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“What else?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000489">I’m just beginning!</span>
   <span id="f000490">There’s your dancing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">“Don’t I dance all right?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000493">you don’t – you lean on a man;</span>
   <span id="f000494">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000495">you do – ever so slightly.</span>
   <span id="f000496">I noticed it when we were dancing together yesterday.</span>
   <span id="f000497">And you dance standing up straight instead of bending over a little.</span>
   <span id="f000498">Probably some old lady on the side-line once told you that you looked so dignified that way.</span>
   <span id="f000499">But except with a very small girl it’s much harder on the man,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and he’s the one that counts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">“Go on.” Bernice’s brain was reeling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000503">you’ve got to learn to be nice to men who are sad birds.</span>
   <span id="f000504">You look as if you’d been insulted whenever you’re thrown with any except the most popular boys.</span>
   <span id="f000505">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000506">Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000507">I’m cut in on every few feet – and who does most of it?</span>
   <span id="f000508">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000509">those very sad birds.</span>
   <span id="f000510">No girl can afford to neglect them.</span>
   <span id="f000511">They’re the big part of any crowd.</span>
   <span id="f000512">Young boys too shy to talk are the very best conversational practice.</span>
   <span id="f000513">Clumsy boys are the best dancing practice.</span>
   <span id="f000514">If you can follow them and yet look graceful you can follow a baby tank across a barb-wire sky-scraper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">Bernice sighed profoundly,</span>
   <span id="f000516">but Marjorie was not through.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">“If you go to a dance and really amuse,</span>
   <span id="f000518">say,</span>
   <span id="f000519">three sad birds that dance with you;</span>
   <span id="f000520">if you talk so well to them that they forget they’re stuck with you,</span>
   <span id="f000521">you’ve done something.</span>
   <span id="f000522">They’ll come back next time,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and gradually so many sad birds will dance with you that the attractive boys will see there’s no danger of being stuck – then they’ll dance with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“Yes,” agreed Bernice faintly.</span>
   <span id="f000525">“I think I begin to see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“And finally,” concluded Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000527">“poise and charm will just come.</span>
   <span id="f000528">You’ll wake up some morning knowing you’ve attained it and men will know it too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">Bernice rose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">“It’s been awfully kind of you – but nobody’s ever talked to me like this before,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and I feel sort of startled.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">Marjorie made no answer but gazed pensively at her own image in the mirror.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“You’re a peach to help me,” continued Bernice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">Still Marjorie did not answer,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and Bernice thought she had seemed too grateful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">“I know you don’t like sentiment,” she said timidly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">Marjorie turned to her quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000538">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000539">I wasn’t thinking about that.</span>
   <span id="f000540">I was considering whether we hadn’t better bob your hair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">Bernice collapsed backward upon the bed.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000542">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000543">On the following Wednesday evening there was a dinner-dance at the country club.</span>
   <span id="f000544">When the guests strolled in Bernice found her place-card with a slight feeling of irritation.</span>
   <span id="f000545">Though at her right sat G.</span>
   <span id="f000546">Reece Stoddard,</span>
   <span id="f000547">a most desirable and distinguished young bachelor,</span>
   <span id="f000548">the all-important left held only Charley Paulson.</span>
   <span id="f000549">Charley lacked height,</span>
   <span id="f000550">beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and social shrewdness,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and in her new enlightenment Bernice decided that his only qualification to be her partner was that he had never been stuck with her.</span>
   <span id="f000553">But this feeling of irritation left with the last of the soup-plates,</span>
   <span id="f000554">and Marjorie’s specific instruction came to her.</span>
   <span id="f000555">Swallowing her pride she turned to Charley Paulson and plunged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">“Do you think I ought to bob my hair,</span>
   <span id="f000557">Mr.&#160;Charley Paulson?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">Charley looked up in surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">“Why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">“Because I’m considering it.</span>
   <span id="f000561">It’s such a sure and easy way of attracting attention.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">Charley smiled pleasantly.</span>
   <span id="f000563">He could not know this had been rehearsed.</span>
   <span id="f000564">He replied that he didn’t know much about bobbed hair.</span>
   <span id="f000565">But Bernice was there to tell him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">“I want to be a society vampire,</span>
   <span id="f000567">you see,” she announced coolly,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and went on to inform him that bobbed hair was the necessary prelude.</span>
   <span id="f000569">She added that she wanted to ask his advice,</span>
   <span id="f000570">because she had heard he was so critical about girls.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000571">Charley,</span>
   <span id="f000572">who knew as much about the psychology of women as he did of the mental states of Buddhist contemplatives,</span>
   <span id="f000573">felt vaguely flattered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">“So I’ve decided,” she continued,</span>
   <span id="f000575">her voice rising slightly,</span>
   <span id="f000576">“that early next week I’m going down to the Sevier Hotel barber-shop,</span>
   <span id="f000577">sit in the first chair,</span>
   <span id="f000578">and get my hair bobbed.” She faltered noticing that the people near her had paused in their conversation and were listening;</span>
   <span id="f000579">but after a confused second Marjorie’s coaching told,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and she finished her paragraph to the vicinity at large.</span>
   <span id="f000581">“Of course I’m charging admission,</span>
   <span id="f000582">but if you’ll all come down and encourage me I’ll issue passes for the inside seats.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">There was a ripple of appreciative laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000584">and under cover of it G.</span>
   <span id="f000585">Reece Stoddard leaned over quickly and said close to her ear:</span>
   <span id="f000586">“I’ll take a box right now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">She met his eyes and smiled as if he had said something surprisingly brilliant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">“Do you believe in bobbed hair?” asked G.</span>
   <span id="f000589">Reece in the same undertone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“I think it’s unmoral,” affirmed Bernice gravely.</span>
   <span id="f000591">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000592">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000593">you’ve either got to amuse people or feed ’em or shock ’em.” Marjorie had culled this from Oscar Wilde.</span>
   <span id="f000594">It was greeted with a ripple of laughter from the men and a series of quick,</span>
   <span id="f000595">intent looks from the girls.</span>
   <span id="f000596">And then as though she had said nothing of wit or moment Bernice turned again to Charley and spoke confidentially in his ear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">“I want to ask you your opinion of several people.</span>
   <span id="f000598">I imagine you’re a wonderful judge of character.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">Charley thrilled faintly – paid her a subtle compliment by overturning her water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">Two hours later,</span>
   <span id="f000601">while Warren McIntyre was standing passively in the stag line abstractedly watching the dancers and wondering whither and with whom Marjorie had disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000602">an unrelated perception began to creep slowly upon him – a perception that Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000603">cousin to Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000604">had been cut in on several times in the past five minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000605">He closed his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000606">opened them and looked again.</span>
   <span id="f000607">Several minutes back she had been dancing with a visiting boy,</span>
   <span id="f000608">a matter easily accounted for;</span>
   <span id="f000609">a visiting boy would know no better.</span>
   <span id="f000610">But now she was dancing with some one else,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and there was Charley Paulson headed for her with enthusiastic determination in his eye.</span>
   <span id="f000612">Funny – Charley seldom danced with more than three girls an evening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">Warren was distinctly surprised when – the exchange having been effected – the man relieved proved to be none ether than G.</span>
   <span id="f000614">Reece Stoddard himself.</span>
   <span id="f000615">And G.</span>
   <span id="f000616">Reece seemed not at all jubilant at being relieved.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Next time Bernice danced near,</span>
   <span id="f000618">Warren regarded her intently.</span>
   <span id="f000619">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000620">she was pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000621">distinctly pretty;</span>
   <span id="f000622">and to-night her face seemed really vivacious.</span>
   <span id="f000623">She had that look that no woman,</span>
   <span id="f000624">however histrionically proficient,</span>
   <span id="f000625">can successfully counterfeit – she looked as if she were having a good time.</span>
   <span id="f000626">He liked the way she had her hair arranged,</span>
   <span id="f000627">wondered if it was brilliantine that made it glisten so.</span>
   <span id="f000628">And that dress was becoming – a dark red that set off her shadowy eyes and high coloring.</span>
   <span id="f000629">He remembered that he had thought her pretty when she first came to town,</span>
   <span id="f000630">before he had realized that she was dull.</span>
   <span id="f000631">Too bad she was dull – dull girls unbearable – certainly pretty though.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000632">His thoughts zigzagged back to Marjorie.</span>
   <span id="f000633">This disappearance would be like other disappearances.</span>
   <span id="f000634">When she reappeared he would demand where she had been – would be told emphatically that it was none of his business.</span>
   <span id="f000635">What a pity she was so sure of him!</span>
   <span id="f000636">She basked in the knowledge that no other girl in town interested him;</span>
   <span id="f000637">she defied him to fall in love with Genevieve or Roberta.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">Warren sighed.</span>
   <span id="f000639">The way to Marjorie’s affections was a labyrinth indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000640">He looked up.</span>
   <span id="f000641">Bernice was again dancing with the visiting boy.</span>
   <span id="f000642">Half unconsciously he took a step out from the stag line in her direction,</span>
   <span id="f000643">and hesitated.</span>
   <span id="f000644">Then he said to himself that it was charity.</span>
   <span id="f000645">He walked toward her – collided suddenly with G.</span>
   <span id="f000646">Reece Stoddard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">“Pardon me,” said Warren.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">But G.</span>
   <span id="f000649">Reece had not stopped to apologize.</span>
   <span id="f000650">He had again cut in on Bernice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">That night at one o’clock Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000652">with one hand on the electric-light switch in the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000653">turned to take a last look at Bernice’s sparkling eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">“So it worked?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000656">Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000657">yes!” cried Bernice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">“I saw you were having a gay time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">“I did!</span>
   <span id="f000660">The only trouble was that about midnight I ran short of talk.</span>
   <span id="f000661">I had to repeat myself – with different men of course.</span>
   <span id="f000662">I hope they won’t compare notes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">“Men don’t,” said Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000664">yawning,</span>
   <span id="f000665">“and it wouldn’t matter if they did – they’d think you were even trickier.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">She snapped out the light,</span>
   <span id="f000667">and as they started up the stairs Bernice grasped the banister thankfully.</span>
   <span id="f000668">For the first time in her life she had been danced tired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">“You see,” said Marjorie it the top of the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000670">“one man sees another man cut in and he thinks there must be something there.</span>
   <span id="f000671">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000672">we’ll fix up some new stuff to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000673">Good night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">“Good night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">As Bernice took down her hair she passed the evening before her in review.</span>
   <span id="f000676">She had followed instructions exactly.</span>
   <span id="f000677">Even when Charley Paulson cut in for the eighth time she had simulated delight and had apparently been both interested and flattered.</span>
   <span id="f000678">She had not talked about the weather or Eau Claire or automobiles or her school,</span>
   <span id="f000679">but had confined her conversation to me,</span>
   <span id="f000680">you,</span>
   <span id="f000681">and us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000682">But a few minutes before she fell asleep a rebellious thought was churning drowsily in her brain – after all,</span>
   <span id="f000683">it was she who had done it.</span>
   <span id="f000684">Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000685">to be sure,</span>
   <span id="f000686">had given her her conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000687">but then Marjorie got much of her conversation out of things she read.</span>
   <span id="f000688">Bernice had bought the red dress,</span>
   <span id="f000689">though she had never valued it highly before Marjorie dug it out of her trunk – and her own voice had said the words,</span>
   <span id="f000690">her own lips had smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000691">her own feet had danced.</span>
   <span id="f000692">Marjorie nice girl – vain,</span>
   <span id="f000693">though – nice evening – nice boys – like Warren – Warren – Warren – what’s his name – Warren –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">She fell asleep.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000695">V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000696">To Bernice the next week was a revelation.</span>
   <span id="f000697">With the feeling that people really enjoyed looking at her and listening to her came the foundation of self-confidence.</span>
   <span id="f000698">Of course there were numerous mistakes at first.</span>
   <span id="f000699">She did not know,</span>
   <span id="f000700">for instance,</span>
   <span id="f000701">that Draycott Deyo was studying for the ministry;</span>
   <span id="f000702">she was unaware that he had cut in on her because he thought she was a quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000703">reserved girl.</span>
   <span id="f000704">Had she known these things she would not have treated him to the line which began “Hello,</span>
   <span id="f000705">Shell Shock!” and continued with the bathtub story – “It takes a frightful lot of energy to fix my hair in the summer – there’s so much of it – so I always fix it first and powder my face and put on my hat;</span>
   <span id="f000706">then I get into the bathtub,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and dress afterward.</span>
   <span id="f000708">Don’t you think that’s the best plan?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000709">Though Draycott Deyo was in the throes of difficulties concerning baptism by immersion and might possibly have seen a connection,</span>
   <span id="f000710">it must be admitted that he did not.</span>
   <span id="f000711">He considered feminine bathing an immoral subject,</span>
   <span id="f000712">and gave her some of his ideas on the depravity of modern society.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">But to offset that unfortunate occurrence Bernice had several signal successes to her credit.</span>
   <span id="f000714">Little Otis Ormonde pleaded off from a trip East and elected instead to follow her with a puppylike devotion,</span>
   <span id="f000715">to the amusement of his crowd and to the irritation of G.</span>
   <span id="f000716">Reece Stoddard,</span>
   <span id="f000717">several of whose afternoon calls Otis completely ruined by the disgusting tenderness of the glances he bent on Bernice.</span>
   <span id="f000718">He even told her the story of the two-by-four and the dressing-room to show her how frightfully mistaken he and every one else had been in their first judgment of her.</span>
   <span id="f000719">Bernice laughed off that incident with a slight sinking sensation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000720">Of all Bernice’s conversation perhaps the best known and most universally approved was the line about the bobbing of her hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000722">Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000723">when you goin’ to get the hair bobbed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">“Day after to-morrow maybe,” she would reply,</span>
   <span id="f000725">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000726">“Will you come and see me?</span>
   <span id="f000727">Because I’m counting on you,</span>
   <span id="f000728">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">“Will we?</span>
   <span id="f000730">You know!</span>
   <span id="f000731">But you better hurry up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000733">whose tonsorial intentions were strictly dishonorable,</span>
   <span id="f000734">would laugh again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">“Pretty soon now.</span>
   <span id="f000736">You’d be surprised.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000737">But perhaps the most significant symbol of her success was the gray car of the hypercritical Warren McIntyre,</span>
   <span id="f000738">parked daily in front of the Harvey house.</span>
   <span id="f000739">At first the parlor-maid was distinctly startled when he asked for Bernice instead of Marjorie;</span>
   <span id="f000740">after a week of it she told the cook that Miss Bernice had gotta holda Miss Marjorie’s best fella.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000741">And Miss Bernice had.</span>
   <span id="f000742">Perhaps it began with Warren’s desire to rouse jealousy in Marjorie;</span>
   <span id="f000743">perhaps it was the familiar though unrecognized strain of Marjorie in Bernice’s conversation;</span>
   <span id="f000744">perhaps it was both of these and something of sincere attraction besides.</span>
   <span id="f000745">But somehow the collective mind of the younger set knew within a week that Marjorie’s most reliable beau had made an amazing face-about and was giving an indisputable rush to Marjorie’s guest.</span>
   <span id="f000746">The question of the moment was how Marjorie would take it.</span>
   <span id="f000747">Warren called Bernice on the ’phone twice a day,</span>
   <span id="f000748">sent her notes,</span>
   <span id="f000749">and they were frequently seen together in his roadster,</span>
   <span id="f000750">obviously engrossed in one of those tense,</span>
   <span id="f000751">significant conversations as to whether or not he was sincere.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">Marjorie on being twitted only laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000753">She said she was mighty glad that Warren had at last found some one who appreciated him.</span>
   <span id="f000754">So the younger set laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000755">too,</span>
   <span id="f000756">and guessed that Marjorie didn’t care and let it go at that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">One afternoon when there were only three days left of her visit Bernice was waiting in the hall for Warren,</span>
   <span id="f000758">with whom she was going to a bridge party.</span>
   <span id="f000759">She was in rather a blissful mood,</span>
   <span id="f000760">and when Marjorie – also bound for the party – appeared beside her and began casually to adjust her hat in the mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000761">Bernice was utterly unprepared for anything in the nature of a clash.</span>
   <span id="f000762">Marjorie did her work very coldly and succinctly in three sentences.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000763">“You may as well get Warren out of your head,” she said coldly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000764">“What?” Bernice was utterly astounded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">“You may as well stop making a fool of yourself over Warren McIntyre.</span>
   <span id="f000766">He doesn’t care a snap of his fingers about you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">For a tense moment they regarded each other – Marjorie scornful,</span>
   <span id="f000768">aloof;</span>
   <span id="f000769">Bernice astounded,</span>
   <span id="f000770">half-angry,</span>
   <span id="f000771">half-afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000772">Then two cars drove up in front of the house and there was a riotous honking.</span>
   <span id="f000773">Both of them gasped faintly,</span>
   <span id="f000774">turned,</span>
   <span id="f000775">and side by side hurried out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000776">All through the bridge party Bernice strove in vain to master a rising uneasiness.</span>
   <span id="f000777">She had offended Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000778">the sphinx of sphinxes.</span>
   <span id="f000779">With the most wholesome and innocent intentions in the world she had stolen Marjorie’s property.</span>
   <span id="f000780">She felt suddenly and horribly guilty.</span>
   <span id="f000781">After the bridge game,</span>
   <span id="f000782">when they sat in an informal circle and the conversation became general,</span>
   <span id="f000783">the storm gradually broke.</span>
   <span id="f000784">Little Otis Ormonde inadvertently precipitated it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">“When you going back to kindergarten,</span>
   <span id="f000786">Otis?” some one had asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000787">“Me?</span>
   <span id="f000788">Day Bernice gets her hair bobbed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000789">“Then your education’s over,” said Marjorie quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000790">“That’s only a bluff of hers.</span>
   <span id="f000791">I should think you’d have realized.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">“That a fact?” demanded Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000793">giving Bernice a reproachful glance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">Bernice’s ears burned as she tried to think up an effectual come-back.</span>
   <span id="f000795">In the face of this direct attack her imagination was paralyzed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“There’s a lot of bluffs in the world,” continued Marjorie quite pleasantly.</span>
   <span id="f000797">“I should think you’d be young enough to know that,</span>
   <span id="f000798">Otis.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">“Well,” said Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000800">“maybe so.</span>
   <span id="f000801">But gee!</span>
   <span id="f000802">With a line like Bernice’s – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000803">“Really?” yawned Marjorie.</span>
   <span id="f000804">“What’s her latest bon mot?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">No one seemed to know.</span>
   <span id="f000806">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000807">Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000808">having trifled with her muse’s beau,</span>
   <span id="f000809">had said nothing memorable of late.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">“Was that really all a line?” asked Roberta curiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">Bernice hesitated.</span>
   <span id="f000812">She felt that wit in some form was demanded of her,</span>
   <span id="f000813">but under her cousin’s suddenly frigid eyes she was completely incapacitated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000814">“I don’t know,” she stalled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">“Splush!” said Marjorie.</span>
   <span id="f000816">“Admit it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">Bernice saw that Warren’s eyes had left a ukulele he had been tinkering with and were fixed on her questioningly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000818">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000819">I don’t know!” she repeated steadily.</span>
   <span id="f000820">Her cheeks were glowing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">“Splush!” remarked Marjorie again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">“Come through,</span>
   <span id="f000823">Bernice,” urged Otis.</span>
   <span id="f000824">“Tell her where to get off.” Bernice looked round again – she seemed unable to get away from Warren’s eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000825">“I like bobbed hair,” she said hurriedly,</span>
   <span id="f000826">as if he had asked her a question,</span>
   <span id="f000827">“and I intend to bob mine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000828">“When?” demanded Marjorie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">“Any time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">“No time like the present,” suggested Roberta.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000831">Otis jumped to his feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000832">“Good stuff!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000833">“We’ll have a summer bobbing party.</span>
   <span id="f000834">Sevier Hotel barber-shop,</span>
   <span id="f000835">I think you said.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">In an instant all were on their feet.</span>
   <span id="f000837">Bernice’s heart throbbed violently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000838">“What?” she gasped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">Out of the group came Marjorie’s voice,</span>
   <span id="f000840">very clear and contemptuous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000841">“Don’t worry – she’ll back out!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000842">“Come on,</span>
   <span id="f000843">Bernice!” cried Otis,</span>
   <span id="f000844">starting toward the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000845">Four eyes – Warren’s and Marjorie’s – stared at her,</span>
   <span id="f000846">challenged her,</span>
   <span id="f000847">defied her.</span>
   <span id="f000848">For another second she wavered wildly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000849">“All right,” she said swiftly “I don’t care if I do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">An eternity of minutes later,</span>
   <span id="f000851">riding down-town through the late afternoon beside Warren,</span>
   <span id="f000852">the others following in Roberta’s car close behind,</span>
   <span id="f000853">Bernice had all the sensations of Marie Antoinette bound for the guillotine in a tumbrel.</span>
   <span id="f000854">Vaguely she wondered why she did not cry out that it was all a mistake.</span>
   <span id="f000855">It was all she could do to keep from clutching her hair with both bands to protect it from the suddenly hostile world.</span>
   <span id="f000856">Yet she did neither.</span>
   <span id="f000857">Even the thought of her mother was no deterrent now.</span>
   <span id="f000858">This was the test supreme of her sportsmanship;</span>
   <span id="f000859">her right to walk unchallenged in the starry heaven of popular girls.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000860">Warren was moodily silent,</span>
   <span id="f000861">and when they came to the hotel he drew up at the curb and nodded to Bernice to precede him out.</span>
   <span id="f000862">Roberta’s car emptied a laughing crowd into the shop,</span>
   <span id="f000863">which presented two bold plate-glass windows to the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000864">Bernice stood on the curb and looked at the sign,</span>
   <span id="f000865">Sevier Barber-Shop.</span>
   <span id="f000866">It was a guillotine indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000867">and the hangman was the first barber,</span>
   <span id="f000868">who,</span>
   <span id="f000869">attired in a white coat and smoking a cigarette,</span>
   <span id="f000870">leaned nonchalantly against the first chair.</span>
   <span id="f000871">He must have heard of her;</span>
   <span id="f000872">he must have been waiting all week,</span>
   <span id="f000873">smoking eternal cigarettes beside that portentous,</span>
   <span id="f000874">too-often-mentioned first chair.</span>
   <span id="f000875">Would they blind-fold her?</span>
   <span id="f000876">No,</span>
   <span id="f000877">but they would tie a white cloth round her neck lest any of her blood – nonsense – hair – should get on her clothes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000878">“All right,</span>
   <span id="f000879">Bernice,” said Warren quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000880">With her chin in the air she crossed the sidewalk,</span>
   <span id="f000881">pushed open the swinging screen-door,</span>
   <span id="f000882">and giving not a glance to the uproarious,</span>
   <span id="f000883">riotous row that occupied the waiting bench,</span>
   <span id="f000884">went up to the fat barber.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000885">“I want you to bob my hair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">The first barber’s mouth slid somewhat open.</span>
   <span id="f000887">His cigarette dropped to the floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">“Huh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000889">“My hair – bob it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">Refusing further preliminaries,</span>
   <span id="f000891">Bernice took her seat on high.</span>
   <span id="f000892">A man in the chair next to her turned on his side and gave her a glance,</span>
   <span id="f000893">half lather,</span>
   <span id="f000894">half amazement.</span>
   <span id="f000895">One barber started and spoiled little Willy Schuneman’s monthly haircut.</span>
   <span id="f000896">Mr.&#160;O’Reilly in the last chair grunted and swore musically in ancient Gaelic as a razor bit into his cheek.</span>
   <span id="f000897">Two bootblacks became wide-eyed and rushed for her feet.</span>
   <span id="f000898">No,</span>
   <span id="f000899">Bernice didn’t care for a shine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000900">Outside a passer-by stopped and stared;</span>
   <span id="f000901">a couple joined him;</span>
   <span id="f000902">half a dozen small boys’ nose sprang into life,</span>
   <span id="f000903">flattened against the glass;</span>
   <span id="f000904">and snatches of conversation borne on the summer breeze drifted in through the screen-door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">“Lookada long hair on a kid!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000906">“Where’d yuh get ’at stuff?</span>
   <span id="f000907">’At’s a bearded lady he just finished shavin’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000908">But Bernice saw nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000909">heard nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000910">Her only living sense told her that this man in the white coat had removed one tortoise-shell comb and then another;</span>
   <span id="f000911">that his fingers were fumbling clumsily with unfamiliar hairpins;</span>
   <span id="f000912">that this hair,</span>
   <span id="f000913">this wonderful hair of hers,</span>
   <span id="f000914">was going – she would never again feel its long voluptuous pull as it hung in a dark-brown glory down her back.</span>
   <span id="f000915">For a second she was near breaking down,</span>
   <span id="f000916">and then the picture before her swam mechanically into her vision – Marjorie’s mouth curling in a faint ironic smile as if to say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">“Give up and get down!</span>
   <span id="f000918">You tried to buck me and I called your bluff.</span>
   <span id="f000919">You see you haven’t got a prayer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000920">And some last energy rose up in Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000921">for she clinched her hands under the white cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000922">and there was a curious narrowing of her eyes that Marjorie remarked on to some one long afterward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000923">Twenty minutes later the barber swung her round to face the mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000924">and she flinched at the full extent of the damage that had been wrought.</span>
   <span id="f000925">Her hair was not curls and now it lay in lank lifeless blocks on both sides of her suddenly pale face.</span>
   <span id="f000926">It was ugly as sin – she had known it would be ugly as sin.</span>
   <span id="f000927">Her face’s chief charm had been a Madonna-like simplicity.</span>
   <span id="f000928">Now that was gone and she was – well frightfully mediocre – not stagy;</span>
   <span id="f000929">only ridiculous,</span>
   <span id="f000930">like a Greenwich Villager who had left her spectacles at home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000931">As she climbed down from the chair she tried to smile – failed miserably.</span>
   <span id="f000932">She saw two of the girls exchange glances;</span>
   <span id="f000933">noticed Marjorie’s mouth curved in attenuated mockery – and that Warren’s eyes were suddenly very cold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">“You see,” – her words fell into an awkward pause – “I’ve done it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000935">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000936">you’ve – done it,” admitted Warren.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">“Do you like it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000938">There was a half-hearted “Sure” from two or three voices,</span>
   <span id="f000939">another awkward pause,</span>
   <span id="f000940">and then Marjorie turned swiftly and with serpentlike intensity to Warren.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">“Would you mind running me down to the cleaners?” she asked.</span>
   <span id="f000942">“I’ve simply got to get a dress there before supper.</span>
   <span id="f000943">Roberta’s driving right home and she can take the others.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000944">Warren stared abstractedly at some infinite speck out the window.</span>
   <span id="f000945">Then for an instant his eyes rested coldly on Bernice before they turned to Marjorie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000946">“Be glad to,” he said slowly.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000947">VI</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000948">Bernice did not fully realize the outrageous trap that had been set for her until she met her aunt’s amazed glance just before dinner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000949">“Why Bernice!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">“I’ve bobbed it,</span>
   <span id="f000951">Aunt Josephine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000952">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000953">child!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000954">“Do you like it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000955">“Why Bernice!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000956">“I suppose I’ve shocked you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000957">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000958">but what’ll Mrs.&#160;Deyo think tomorrow night?</span>
   <span id="f000959">Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000960">you should have waited until after the Deyo’s dance – you should have waited if you wanted to do that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000961">“It was sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000962">Aunt Josephine.</span>
   <span id="f000963">Anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000964">why does it matter to Mrs.&#160;Deyo particularly?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000965">“Why child,” cried Mrs.&#160;Harvey,</span>
   <span id="f000966">“in her paper on ’The Foibles of the Younger Generation’ that she read at the last meeting of the Thursday Club she devoted fifteen minutes to bobbed hair.</span>
   <span id="f000967">It’s her pet abomination.</span>
   <span id="f000968">And the dance is for you and Marjorie!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000969">“I’m sorry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000970">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000971">Bernice,</span>
   <span id="f000972">what’ll your mother say?</span>
   <span id="f000973">She’ll think I let you do it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000974">“I’m sorry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000975">Dinner was an agony.</span>
   <span id="f000976">She had made a hasty attempt with a curling-iron,</span>
   <span id="f000977">and burned her finger and much hair.</span>
   <span id="f000978">She could see that her aunt was both worried and grieved,</span>
   <span id="f000979">and her uncle kept saying,</span>
   <span id="f000980">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000981">I’ll be darned!” over and over in a hurt and faintly hostile torte.</span>
   <span id="f000982">And Marjorie sat very quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000983">intrenched behind a faint smile,</span>
   <span id="f000984">a faintly mocking smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000985">Somehow she got through the evening.</span>
   <span id="f000986">Three boy’s called;</span>
   <span id="f000987">Marjorie disappeared with one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000988">and Bernice made a listless unsuccessful attempt to entertain the two others – sighed thankfully as she climbed the stairs to her room at half past ten.</span>
   <span id="f000989">What a day!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000990">When she had undressed for the night the door opened and Marjorie came in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000991">“Bernice,” she said “I’m awfully sorry about the Deyo dance.</span>
   <span id="f000992">I’ll give you my word of honor I’d forgotten all about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000993">“’Sall right,” said Bernice shortly.</span>
   <span id="f000994">Standing before the mirror she passed her comb slowly through her short hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000995">“I’ll take you down-town to-morrow,” continued Marjorie,</span>
   <span id="f000996">“and the hairdresser’ll fix it so you’ll look slick.</span>
   <span id="f000997">I didn’t imagine you’d go through with it.</span>
   <span id="f000998">I’m really mighty sorry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000999">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001000">’sall right!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001001">“Still it’s your last night,</span>
   <span id="f001002">so I suppose it won’t matter much.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001003">Then Bernice winced as Marjorie tossed her own hair over her shoulders and began to twist it slowly into two long blond braids until in her cream-colored negligée she looked like a delicate painting of some Saxon princess.</span>
   <span id="f001004">Fascinated,</span>
   <span id="f001005">Bernice watched the braids grow.</span>
   <span id="f001006">Heavy and luxurious they were moving under the supple fingers like restive snakes – and to Bernice remained this relic and the curling-iron and a to-morrow full of eyes.</span>
   <span id="f001007">She could see G.</span>
   <span id="f001008">Reece Stoddard,</span>
   <span id="f001009">who liked her,</span>
   <span id="f001010">assuming his Harvard manner and telling his dinner partner that Bernice shouldn’t have been allowed to go to the movies so much;</span>
   <span id="f001011">she could see Draycott Deyo exchanging glances with his mother and then being conscientiously charitable to her.</span>
   <span id="f001012">But then perhaps by to-morrow Mrs.&#160;Deyo would have heard the news;</span>
   <span id="f001013">would send round an icy little note requesting that she fail to appear – and behind her back they would all laugh and know that Marjorie had made a fool of her;</span>
   <span id="f001014">that her chance at beauty had been sacrificed to the jealous whim of a selfish girl.</span>
   <span id="f001015">She sat down suddenly before the mirror,</span>
   <span id="f001016">biting the inside of her cheek.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001017">“I like it,” she said with an effort.</span>
   <span id="f001018">“I think it’ll be becoming.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001019">Marjorie smiled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001020">“It looks all right.</span>
   <span id="f001021">For heaven’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f001022">don’t let it worry you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001023">“I won’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001024">“Good night Bernice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001025">But as the door closed something snapped within Bernice.</span>
   <span id="f001026">She sprang dynamically to her feet,</span>
   <span id="f001027">clinching her hands,</span>
   <span id="f001028">then swiftly and noiseless crossed over to her bed and from underneath it dragged out her suitcase.</span>
   <span id="f001029">Into it she tossed toilet articles and a change of clothing,</span>
   <span id="f001030">Then she turned to her trunk and quickly dumped in two drawerfulls of lingerie and stammer dresses.</span>
   <span id="f001031">She moved quietly,</span>
   <span id="f001032">but deadly efficiency,</span>
   <span id="f001033">and in three-quarters of an hour her trunk was locked and strapped and she was fully dressed in a becoming new travelling suit that Marjorie had helped her pick out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001034">Sitting down at her desk she wrote a short note to Mrs.&#160;Harvey,</span>
   <span id="f001035">in which she briefly outlined her reasons for going.</span>
   <span id="f001036">She sealed it,</span>
   <span id="f001037">addressed it,</span>
   <span id="f001038">and laid it on her pillow.</span>
   <span id="f001039">She glanced at her watch.</span>
   <span id="f001040">The train left at one,</span>
   <span id="f001041">and she knew that if she walked down to the Marborough Hotel two blocks away she could easily get a taxicab.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001042">Suddenly she drew in her breath sharply and an expression flashed into her eyes that a practiced character reader might have connected vaguely with the set look she had worn in the barber’s chair – somehow a development of it.</span>
   <span id="f001043">It was quite a new look for Bernice – and it carried consequences.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001044">She went stealthily to the bureau,</span>
   <span id="f001045">picked up an article that lay there,</span>
   <span id="f001046">and turning out all the lights stood quietly until her eyes became accustomed to the darkness.</span>
   <span id="f001047">Softly she pushed open the door to Marjorie’s room.</span>
   <span id="f001048">She heard the quiet,</span>
   <span id="f001049">even breathing of an untroubled conscience asleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001050">She was by the bedside now,</span>
   <span id="f001051">very deliberate and calm.</span>
   <span id="f001052">She acted swiftly.</span>
   <span id="f001053">Bending over she found one of the braids of Marjorie’s hair,</span>
   <span id="f001054">followed it up with her hand to the point nearest the head,</span>
   <span id="f001055">and then holding it a little slack so that the sleeper would feel no pull,</span>
   <span id="f001056">she reached down with the shears and severed it.</span>
   <span id="f001057">With the pigtail in her hand she held her breath.</span>
   <span id="f001058">Marjorie had muttered something in her sleep.</span>
   <span id="f001059">Bernice deftly amputated the other braid,</span>
   <span id="f001060">paused for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f001061">and then flitted swiftly and silently back to her own room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001062">Down-stairs she opened the big front door,</span>
   <span id="f001063">closed it carefully behind her,</span>
   <span id="f001064">and feeling oddly happy and exuberant stepped off the porch into the moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f001065">swinging her heavy grip like a shopping-bag.</span>
   <span id="f001066">After a minute’s brisk walk she discovered that her left hand still held the two blond braids.</span>
   <span id="f001067">She laughed unexpectedly – had to shut her mouth hard to keep from emitting an absolute peal.</span>
   <span id="f001068">She was passing Warren’s house now,</span>
   <span id="f001069">and on the impulse she set down her baggage,</span>
   <span id="f001070">and swinging the braids like piece of rope flung them at the wooden porch,</span>
   <span id="f001071">where they landed with a slight thud.</span>
   <span id="f001072">She laughed again,</span>
   <span id="f001073">no longer restraining herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001074">“Huh,” she giggled wildly.</span>
   <span id="f001075">“Scalp the selfish thing!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001076">Then picking up her staircase she set off at a half-run down the moonlit street.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

