<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>mb</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Flappers and Philosophers</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Dalyrimple Goes Wrong</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">In the millennium an educational genius will write a book to be given to every young man on the date of his disillusion.</span>
   <span id="f000009">This work will have the flavor of Montaigne’s essays and Samuel Butler’s note-books – and a little of Tolstoi and Marcus Aurelius.</span>
   <span id="f000010">It will be neither cheerful nor pleasant but will contain numerous passages of striking humor.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Since first-class minds never believe anything very strongly until they’ve experienced it,</span>
   <span id="f000012">its value will be purely relative…</span>
   <span id="f000013">all people over thirty will refer to it as “depressing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">This prelude belongs to the story of a young man who lived,</span>
   <span id="f000015">as you and I do,</span>
   <span id="f000016">before the book.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000017">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000018">The generation which numbered Bryan Dalyrimple drifted out of adolescence to a mighty fan-fare of trumpets.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Bryan played the star in an affair which included a Lewis gun and a nine-day romp behind the retreating German lines,</span>
   <span id="f000020">so luck triumphant or sentiment rampant awarded him a row of medals and on his arrival in the States he was told that he was second in importance only to General Pershing and Sergeant York.</span>
   <span id="f000021">This was a lot of fun.</span>
   <span id="f000022">The governor of his State,</span>
   <span id="f000023">a stray congressman,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and a citizens’ committee gave him enormous smiles and “By God,</span>
   <span id="f000025">Sirs” on the dock at Hoboken;</span>
   <span id="f000026">there were newspaper reporters and photographers who said “would you mind” and “if you could just”;</span>
   <span id="f000027">and back in his home town there were old ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000028">the rims of whose eyes grew red as they talked to him,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and girls who hadn’t remembered him so well since his father’s business went blah!</span>
   <span id="f000030">in nineteen-twelve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">But when the shouting died he realized that for a month he had been the house guest of the mayor,</span>
   <span id="f000032">that he had only fourteen dollars in the world and that “the name that will live forever in the annals and legends of this State” was already living there very quietly and obscurely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">One morning he lay late in bed and just outside his door he heard the up-stairs maid talking to the cook.</span>
   <span id="f000034">The up-stairs maid said that Mrs.&#160;Hawkins,</span>
   <span id="f000035">the mayor’s wife,</span>
   <span id="f000036">had been trying for a week to hint Dalyrimple out of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000037">He left at eleven o’clock in intolerable confusion,</span>
   <span id="f000038">asking that his trunk be sent to Mrs.&#160;Beebe’s boarding-house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">Dalyrimple was twenty-three and he had never worked.</span>
   <span id="f000040">His father had given him two years at the State University and passed away about the time of his son’s nine-day romp,</span>
   <span id="f000041">leaving behind him some mid-Victorian furniture and a thin packet of folded paper that turned out to be grocery bills.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Young Dalyrimple had very keen gray eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000043">a mind that delighted the army psychological examiners,</span>
   <span id="f000044">a trick of having read it – whatever it was – some time before,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and a cool hand in a hot situation.</span>
   <span id="f000046">But these things did not save him a final,</span>
   <span id="f000047">unresigned sigh when he realized that he had to go to work – right away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">It was early afternoon when he walked into the office of Theron G.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Macy,</span>
   <span id="f000050">who owned the largest wholesale grocery house in town.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Plump,</span>
   <span id="f000052">prosperous,</span>
   <span id="f000053">wearing a pleasant but quite unhumorous smile,</span>
   <span id="f000054">Theron G.</span>
   <span id="f000055">Macy greeted him warmly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">“Well – how do,</span>
   <span id="f000057">Bryan?</span>
   <span id="f000058">What’s on your mind?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">To Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000060">straining with his admission,</span>
   <span id="f000061">his own words,</span>
   <span id="f000062">when they came,</span>
   <span id="f000063">sounded like an Arab beggar’s whine for alms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“Why – this question of a job.”</span>
   <span id="f000065">(“This question of a job” seemed somehow more clothed than just “a job.”)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“A job?” An almost imperceptible breeze blew across Mr.&#160;Macy’s expression.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000068">Mr.&#160;Macy,” continued Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000069">“I feel I’m wasting time.</span>
   <span id="f000070">I want to get started at something.</span>
   <span id="f000071">I had several chances about a month ago but they all seem to have – gone – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">“Let’s see,” interrupted Mr.&#160;Macy.</span>
   <span id="f000073">“What were they?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000075">just at the first the governor said something about a vacancy on his staff.</span>
   <span id="f000076">I was sort of counting on that for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000077">but I hear he’s given it to Allen Gregg,</span>
   <span id="f000078">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000079">son of G.</span>
   <span id="f000080">P.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Gregg.</span>
   <span id="f000082">He sort of forgot what he said to me – just talking,</span>
   <span id="f000083">I guess.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">“You ought to push those things.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“Then there was that engineering expedition,</span>
   <span id="f000086">but they decided they’d have to have a man who knew hydraulics,</span>
   <span id="f000087">so they couldn’t use me unless I paid my own way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“You had just a year at the university?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“Two.</span>
   <span id="f000090">But I didn’t take any science or mathematics.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000092">the day the battalion paraded,</span>
   <span id="f000093">Mr.&#160;Peter Jordan said something about a vacancy in his store.</span>
   <span id="f000094">I went around there to-day and I found he meant a sort of floor-walker – and then you said something one day” – he paused and waited for the older man to take him up,</span>
   <span id="f000095">but noting only a minute wince continued – “about a position,</span>
   <span id="f000096">so I thought I’d come and see you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“There was a position,” confessed Mr.&#160;Macy reluctantly,</span>
   <span id="f000098">“but since then we’ve filled it.” He cleared his throat again.</span>
   <span id="f000099">“You’ve waited quite a while.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000101">I suppose I did.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Everybody told me there was no hurry – and I’d had these various offers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">Mr.&#160;Macy delivered a paragraph on present-day opportunities which Dalyrimple’s mind completely skipped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“Have you had any business experience?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“I worked on a ranch two summers as a rider.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000107">well,” Mr.&#160;Macy disparaged this neatly,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and then continued:</span>
   <span id="f000109">“What do you think you’re worth?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“I don’t know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000112">Bryan,</span>
   <span id="f000113">I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000114">I’m willing to strain a point and give you a chance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">Dalyrimple nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“Your salary won’t be much.</span>
   <span id="f000117">You’ll start by learning the stock.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Then you’ll come in the office for a while.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Then you’ll go on the road.</span>
   <span id="f000120">When could you begin?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“How about to-morrow?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“All right.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Report to Mr.&#160;Hanson in the stock-room.</span>
   <span id="f000124">He’ll start you off.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">He continued to regard Dalyrimple steadily until the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000126">realizing that the interview was over,</span>
   <span id="f000127">rose awkwardly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000129">Mr.&#160;Macy,</span>
   <span id="f000130">I’m certainly much obliged.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“That’s all right.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Glad to help you,</span>
   <span id="f000133">Bryan.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">After an irresolute moment,</span>
   <span id="f000135">Dalyrimple found himself in the hall.</span>
   <span id="f000136">His forehead was covered with perspiration,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and the room had not been hot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“Why the devil did I thank the son of a gun?” he muttered.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000139">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000140">Next morning Mr.&#160;Hanson informed him coldly of the necessity of punching the time-clock at seven every morning,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and delivered him for instruction into the hands of a fellow worker,</span>
   <span id="f000142">one Charley Moore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">Charley was twenty-six,</span>
   <span id="f000144">with that faint musk of weakness hanging about him that is often mistaken for the scent of evil.</span>
   <span id="f000145">It took no psychological examiner to decide that he had drifted into indulgence and laziness as casually as he had drifted into life,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and was to drift out.</span>
   <span id="f000147">He was pale and his clothes stank of smoke;</span>
   <span id="f000148">he enjoyed burlesque shows,</span>
   <span id="f000149">billiards,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and Robert Service,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and was always looking back upon his last intrigue or forward to his next one.</span>
   <span id="f000152">In his youth his taste had run to loud ties,</span>
   <span id="f000153">but now it seemed to have faded,</span>
   <span id="f000154">like his vitality,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and was expressed in pale-lilac four-in-hands and indeterminate gray collars.</span>
   <span id="f000156">Charley was listlessly struggling that losing struggle against mental,</span>
   <span id="f000157">moral,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and physical anæmia that takes place ceaselessly on the lower fringe of the middle classes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">The first morning he stretched himself on a row of cereal cartons and carefully went over the limitations of the Theron G.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Macy Company.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“It’s a piker organization.</span>
   <span id="f000162">My Gosh!</span>
   <span id="f000163">Lookit what they give me.</span>
   <span id="f000164">I’m quittin’ in a coupla months.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Hell!</span>
   <span id="f000166">Me stay with this bunch!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">The Charley Moores are always going to change jobs next month.</span>
   <span id="f000168">They do,</span>
   <span id="f000169">once or twice in their careers,</span>
   <span id="f000170">after which they sit around comparing their last job with the present one,</span>
   <span id="f000171">to the infinite disparagement of the latter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“What do you get?” asked Dalyrimple curiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Me?</span>
   <span id="f000174">I get sixty.” This rather defiantly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“Did you start at sixty?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“Me?</span>
   <span id="f000177">No,</span>
   <span id="f000178">I started at thirty-five.</span>
   <span id="f000179">He told me he’d put me on the road after I learned the stock.</span>
   <span id="f000180">That’s what he tells ’em all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“How long’ve you been here?” asked Dalyrimple with a sinking sensation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Me?</span>
   <span id="f000183">Four years.</span>
   <span id="f000184">My last year,</span>
   <span id="f000185">too,</span>
   <span id="f000186">you bet your boots.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">Dalyrimple rather resented the presence of the store detective as he resented the time-clock,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and he came into contact with him almost immediately through the rule against smoking.</span>
   <span id="f000189">This rule was a thorn in his side.</span>
   <span id="f000190">He was accustomed to his three or four cigarettes in a morning,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and after three days without it he followed Charley Moore by a circuitous route up a flight of back stairs to a little balcony where they indulged in peace.</span>
   <span id="f000192">But this was not for long.</span>
   <span id="f000193">One day in his second week the detective met him in a nook of the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000194">on his descent,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and told him sternly that next time he’d be reported to Mr.&#160;Macy.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Dalyrimple felt like an errant schoolboy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">Unpleasant facts came to his knowledge.</span>
   <span id="f000198">There were “cave-dwellers” in the basement who had worked there for ten or fifteen years at sixty dollars a month,</span>
   <span id="f000199">rolling barrels and carrying boxes through damp,</span>
   <span id="f000200">cement-walled corridors,</span>
   <span id="f000201">lost in that echoing half-darkness between seven and five-thirty and,</span>
   <span id="f000202">like himself,</span>
   <span id="f000203">compelled several times a month to work until nine at night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">At the end of a month he stood in line and received forty dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000205">He pawned a cigarette-case and a pair of field-glasses and managed to live – to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000206">sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and smoke.</span>
   <span id="f000208">It was,</span>
   <span id="f000209">however,</span>
   <span id="f000210">a narrow scrape;</span>
   <span id="f000211">as the ways and means of economy were a closed book to him and the second month brought no increase,</span>
   <span id="f000212">he voiced his alarm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“If you’ve got a drag with old Macy,</span>
   <span id="f000214">maybe he’ll raise you,” was Charley’s disheartening reply.</span>
   <span id="f000215">“But he didn’t raise ME till I’d been here nearly two years.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“I’ve got to live,” said Dalyrimple simply.</span>
   <span id="f000217">“I could get more pay as a laborer on the railroad but,</span>
   <span id="f000218">Golly,</span>
   <span id="f000219">I want to feel I’m where there’s a chance to get ahead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">Charles shook his head sceptically and Mr.&#160;Macy’s answer next day was equally unsatisfactory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">Dalyrimple had gone to the office just before closing time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“Mr.&#160;Macy,</span>
   <span id="f000223">I’d like to speak to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“Why – yes.” The unhumorous smile appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000225">The voice was faintly resentful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“I want to speak to you in regard to more salary.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">Mr.&#160;Macy nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">“Well,” he said doubtfully,</span>
   <span id="f000229">“I don’t know exactly what you’re doing.</span>
   <span id="f000230">I’ll speak to Mr.&#160;Hanson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">He knew exactly what Dalyrimple was doing,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and Dalyrimple knew he knew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">“I’m in the stock-room – and,</span>
   <span id="f000234">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000235">while I’m here I’d like to ask you how much longer I’ll have to stay there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“Why – I’m not sure exactly.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Of course it takes some time to learn the stock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“You told me two months when I started.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000240">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000241">I’ll speak to Mr.&#160;Hanson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">Dalyrimple paused irresolute.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000244">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">Two days later he again appeared in the office with the result of a count that had been asked for by Mr.&#160;Hesse,</span>
   <span id="f000246">the bookkeeper.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Mr.&#160;Hesse was engaged and Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000248">waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000249">began idly fingering in a ledger on the stenographer’s desk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">Half unconsciously he turned a page – he caught sight of his name – it was a salary list:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000251">Dalyrimple<br /></span>
   <span id="f000252">Demming<br /></span>
   <span id="f000253">Donahoe<br /></span>
   <span id="f000254">Everett</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000255">His eyes stopped –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000256">Everett…</span>
   <span id="f000257">$60</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000258">So Tom Everett,</span>
   <span id="f000259">Macy’s weak-chinned nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000260">had started at sixty – and in three weeks he had been out of the packing-room and into the office.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">So that was it!</span>
   <span id="f000262">He was to sit and see man after man pushed over him:</span>
   <span id="f000263">sons,</span>
   <span id="f000264">cousins,</span>
   <span id="f000265">sons of friends,</span>
   <span id="f000266">irrespective of their capabilities,</span>
   <span id="f000267">while HE was cast for a pawn,</span>
   <span id="f000268">with “going on the road” dangled before his eyes – put off with the stock remark:</span>
   <span id="f000269">“I’ll see;</span>
   <span id="f000270">I’ll look into it.” At forty,</span>
   <span id="f000271">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000272">he would be a bookkeeper like old Hesse,</span>
   <span id="f000273">tired,</span>
   <span id="f000274">listless Hesse with a dull routine for his stint and a dull background of boarding-house conversation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">This was a moment when a genii should have pressed into his hand the book for disillusioned young men.</span>
   <span id="f000276">But the book has not been written.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">A great protest swelling into revolt surged up in him.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Ideas half forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000279">chaoticly perceived and assimilated,</span>
   <span id="f000280">filled his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000281">Get on – that was the rule of life – and that was all.</span>
   <span id="f000282">How he did it,</span>
   <span id="f000283">didn’t matter – but to be Hesse or Charley Moore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">“I won’t!” he cried aloud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">The bookkeeper and the stenographers looked up in surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">For a second Dalyrimple stared – then walked up to the desk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“Here’s that data,” he said brusquely.</span>
   <span id="f000289">“I can’t wait any longer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">Mr.&#160;Hesse’s face expressed surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">It didn’t matter what he did – just so he got out of this rut.</span>
   <span id="f000292">In a dream he stepped from the elevator into the stock-room,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and walking to an unused aisle,</span>
   <span id="f000294">sat down on a box,</span>
   <span id="f000295">covering his face with his hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">His brain was whirring with the frightful jar of discovering a platitude for himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“I’ve got to get out of this,” he said aloud and then repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000298">“I’ve got to get out” – and he didn’t mean only out of Macy’s wholesale house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">When he left at five-thirty it was pouring rain,</span>
   <span id="f000300">but he struck off in the opposite direction from his boarding-house,</span>
   <span id="f000301">feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000302">in the first cool moisture that oozed soggily through his old suit,</span>
   <span id="f000303">an odd exultation and freshness.</span>
   <span id="f000304">He wanted a world that was like walking through rain,</span>
   <span id="f000305">even though he could not see far ahead of him,</span>
   <span id="f000306">but fate had put him in the world of Mr.&#160;Macy’s fetid storerooms and corridors.</span>
   <span id="f000307">At first merely the overwhelming need of change took him,</span>
   <span id="f000308">then half-plans began to formulate in his imagination.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“I’ll go East – to a big city – meet people – bigger people – people who’ll help me.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Interesting work somewhere.</span>
   <span id="f000311">My God,</span>
   <span id="f000312">there MUST be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">With sickening truth it occurred to him that his facility for meeting people was limited.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Of all places it was here in his own town that he should be known,</span>
   <span id="f000315">was known – famous – before the water of oblivion had rolled over him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">You had to cut corners,</span>
   <span id="f000317">that was all.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Pull – relationship – wealthy marriages –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">For several miles the continued reiteration of this preoccupied him and then he perceived that the rain had become thicker and more opaque in the heavy gray of twilight and that the houses were falling away.</span>
   <span id="f000320">The district of full blocks,</span>
   <span id="f000321">then of big houses,</span>
   <span id="f000322">then of scattering little ones,</span>
   <span id="f000323">passed and great sweeps of misty country opened out on both sides.</span>
   <span id="f000324">It was hard walking here.</span>
   <span id="f000325">The sidewalk had given place to a dirt road,</span>
   <span id="f000326">streaked with furious brown rivulets that splashed and squashed around his shoes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">Cutting corners – the words began to fall apart,</span>
   <span id="f000328">forming curious phrasings – little illuminated pieces of themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000329">They resolved into sentences,</span>
   <span id="f000330">each of which had a strangely familiar ring.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">Cutting corners meant rejecting the old childhood principles that success came from faithfulness to duty,</span>
   <span id="f000332">that evil was necessarily punished or virtue necessarily rewarded – that honest poverty was happier than corrupt riches.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">It meant being hard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">This phrase appealed to him and he repeated it over and over.</span>
   <span id="f000335">It had to do somehow with Mr.&#160;Macy and Charley Moore – the attitudes,</span>
   <span id="f000336">the methods of each of them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">He stopped and felt his clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000338">He was drenched to the skin.</span>
   <span id="f000339">He looked about him and,</span>
   <span id="f000340">selecting a place in the fence where a tree sheltered it,</span>
   <span id="f000341">perched himself there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">In my credulous years – he thought – they told me that evil was a sort of dirty hue,</span>
   <span id="f000343">just as definite as a soiled collar,</span>
   <span id="f000344">but it seems to me that evil is only a manner of hard luck,</span>
   <span id="f000345">or heredity-and-environment,</span>
   <span id="f000346">or “being found out.” It hides in the vacillations of dubs like Charley Moore as certainly as it does in the intolerance of Macy,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and if it ever gets much more tangible it becomes merely an arbitrary label to paste on the unpleasant things in other people’s lives.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">In fact – he concluded – it isn’t worth worrying over what’s evil and what isn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000349">Good and evil aren’t any standard to me – and they can be a devil of a bad hindrance when I want something.</span>
   <span id="f000350">When I want something bad enough,</span>
   <span id="f000351">common sense tells me to go and take it – and not get caught.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">And then suddenly Dalyrimple knew what he wanted first.</span>
   <span id="f000353">He wanted fifteen dollars to pay his overdue board bill.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">With a furious energy he jumped from the fence,</span>
   <span id="f000355">whipped off his coat,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and from its black lining cut with his knife a piece about five inches square.</span>
   <span id="f000357">He made two holes near its edge and then fixed it on his face,</span>
   <span id="f000358">pulling his hat down to hold it in place.</span>
   <span id="f000359">It flapped grotesquely and then dampened and clung clung to his forehead and cheeks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">Now…</span>
   <span id="f000361">The twilight had merged to dripping dusk…</span>
   <span id="f000362">black as pitch.</span>
   <span id="f000363">He began to walk quickly back toward town,</span>
   <span id="f000364">not waiting to remove the mask but watching the road with difficulty through the jagged eye-holes.</span>
   <span id="f000365">He was not conscious of any nervousness…</span>
   <span id="f000366">the only tension was caused by a desire to do the thing as soon as possible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">He reached the first sidewalk,</span>
   <span id="f000368">continued on until he saw a hedge far from any lamp-post,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and turned in behind it.</span>
   <span id="f000370">Within a minute he heard several series of footsteps – he waited – it was a woman and he held his breath until she passed…</span>
   <span id="f000371">and then a man,</span>
   <span id="f000372">a laborer.</span>
   <span id="f000373">The next passer,</span>
   <span id="f000374">he felt,</span>
   <span id="f000375">would be what he wanted…</span>
   <span id="f000376">the laborer’s footfalls died far up the drenched street…</span>
   <span id="f000377">other steps grew nears grew suddenly louder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">Dalyrimple braced himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“Put up your hands!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">The man stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000381">uttered an absurd little grunt,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and thrust pudgy arms skyward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">Dalyrimple went through the waistcoat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000385">you shrimp,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000386">setting his hand suggestively to his own hip pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000387">“you run,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and stamp – loud!</span>
   <span id="f000389">If I hear your feet stop I’ll put a shot after you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">Then he stood there in sudden uncontrollable laughter as audibly frightened footsteps scurried away into the night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">After a moment he thrust the roll of bills into his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000392">snatched off his mask,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and running quickly across the street,</span>
   <span id="f000394">darted down an alley.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000395">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000396">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000397">however Dalyrimple justified himself intellectually,</span>
   <span id="f000398">he had many bad moments in the weeks immediately following his decision.</span>
   <span id="f000399">The tremendous pressure of sentiment and inherited ambition kept raising riot with his attitude.</span>
   <span id="f000400">He felt morally lonely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">The noon after his first venture he ate in a little lunch-room with Charley Moore and,</span>
   <span id="f000402">watching him unspread the paper,</span>
   <span id="f000403">waited for a remark about the hold-up of the day before.</span>
   <span id="f000404">But either the hold-up was not mentioned or Charley wasn’t interested.</span>
   <span id="f000405">He turned listlessly to the sporting sheet,</span>
   <span id="f000406">read Doctor Crane’s crop of seasoned bromides,</span>
   <span id="f000407">took in an editorial on ambition with his mouth slightly ajar,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and then skipped to Mutt and Jeff.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">Poor Charley – with his faint aura of evil and his mind that refused to focus,</span>
   <span id="f000410">playing a lifeless solitaire with cast-off mischief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">Yet Charley belonged on the other side of the fence.</span>
   <span id="f000412">In him could be stirred up all the flamings and denunciations of righteousness;</span>
   <span id="f000413">he would weep at a stage heroine’s lost virtue,</span>
   <span id="f000414">he could become lofty and contemptuous at the idea of dishonor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">On my side,</span>
   <span id="f000416">thought Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000417">there aren’t any resting-places;</span>
   <span id="f000418">a man who’s a strong criminal is after the weak criminals as well,</span>
   <span id="f000419">so it’s all guerilla warfare over here.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000420">What will it all do to me?</span>
   <span id="f000421">he thought with a persistent weariness.</span>
   <span id="f000422">Will it take the color out of life with the honor?</span>
   <span id="f000423">Will it scatter my courage and dull my mind?</span>
   <span id="f000424">– despiritualize me completely – does it mean eventual barrenness,</span>
   <span id="f000425">eventual remorse,</span>
   <span id="f000426">failure?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">With a great surge of anger,</span>
   <span id="f000428">he would fling his mind upon the barrier – and stand there with the flashing bayonet of his pride.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Other men who broke the laws of justice and charity lied to all the world.</span>
   <span id="f000430">He at any rate would not lie to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000431">He was more than Byronic now:</span>
   <span id="f000432">not the spiritual rebel,</span>
   <span id="f000433">Don Juan;</span>
   <span id="f000434">not the philosophical rebel,</span>
   <span id="f000435">Faust;</span>
   <span id="f000436">but a new psychological rebel of his own century – defying the sentimental a priori forms of his own mind –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">Happiness was what he wanted – a slowly rising scale of gratifications of the normal appetites – and he had a strong conviction that the materials,</span>
   <span id="f000438">if not the inspiration of happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000439">could be bought with money.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000440">V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000441">The night came that drew him out upon his second venture,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and as he walked the dark street he felt in himself a great resemblance to a cat – a certain supple,</span>
   <span id="f000443">swinging litheness.</span>
   <span id="f000444">His muscles were rippling smoothly and sleekly under his spare,</span>
   <span id="f000445">healthy flesh – he had an absurd desire to bound along the street,</span>
   <span id="f000446">to run dodging among trees,</span>
   <span id="f000447">to turn “cart-wheels” over soft grass.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">It was not crisp,</span>
   <span id="f000449">but in the air lay a faint suggestion of acerbity,</span>
   <span id="f000450">inspirational rather than chilling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“The moon is down – I have not heard the clock!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">He laughed in delight at the line which an early memory had endowed with a hushed awesome beauty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">He passed a man and then another a quarter of mile afterward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">He was on Philmore Street now and it was very dark.</span>
   <span id="f000455">He blessed the city council for not having put in new lamp-posts as a recent budget had recommended.</span>
   <span id="f000456">Here was the red-brick Sterner residence which marked the beginning of the avenue;</span>
   <span id="f000457">here was the Jordon house,</span>
   <span id="f000458">the Eisenhaurs’,</span>
   <span id="f000459">the Dents’,</span>
   <span id="f000460">the Markhams’,</span>
   <span id="f000461">the Frasers’;</span>
   <span id="f000462">the Hawkins’,</span>
   <span id="f000463">where he had been a guest;</span>
   <span id="f000464">the Willoughbys’,</span>
   <span id="f000465">the Everett’s,</span>
   <span id="f000466">colonial and ornate;</span>
   <span id="f000467">the little cottage where lived the Watts old maids between the imposing fronts of the Macys’ and the Krupstadts’;</span>
   <span id="f000468">the Craigs –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">Ah…</span>
   <span id="f000470">THERE!</span>
   <span id="f000471">He paused,</span>
   <span id="f000472">wavered violently – far up the street was a blot,</span>
   <span id="f000473">a man walking,</span>
   <span id="f000474">possibly a policeman.</span>
   <span id="f000475">After an eternal second be found himself following the vague,</span>
   <span id="f000476">ragged shadow of a lamp-post across a lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000477">running bent very low.</span>
   <span id="f000478">Then he was standing tense,</span>
   <span id="f000479">without breath or need of it,</span>
   <span id="f000480">in the shadow of his limestone prey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">Interminably he listened – a mile off a cat howled,</span>
   <span id="f000482">a hundred yards away another took up the hymn in a demoniacal snarl,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and he felt his heart dip and swoop,</span>
   <span id="f000484">acting as shock-absorber for his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000485">There were other sounds;</span>
   <span id="f000486">the faintest fragment of song far away;</span>
   <span id="f000487">strident,</span>
   <span id="f000488">gossiping laughter from a back porch diagonally across the alley;</span>
   <span id="f000489">and crickets,</span>
   <span id="f000490">crickets singing in the patched,</span>
   <span id="f000491">patterned,</span>
   <span id="f000492">moonlit grass of the yard.</span>
   <span id="f000493">Within the house there seemed to lie an ominous silence.</span>
   <span id="f000494">He was glad he did not know who lived here.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">His slight shiver hardened to steel;</span>
   <span id="f000496">the steel softened and his nerves became pliable as leather;</span>
   <span id="f000497">gripping his hands he gratefully found them supple,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and taking out knife and pliers he went to work on the screen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">So sure was he that he was unobserved that,</span>
   <span id="f000500">from the dining-room where in a minute he found himself,</span>
   <span id="f000501">he leaned out and carefully pulled the screen up into position,</span>
   <span id="f000502">balancing it so it would neither fall by chance nor be a serious obstacle to a sudden exit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">Then he put the open knife in his coat pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000504">took out his pocket-flash,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and tiptoed around the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">There was nothing here he could use – the dining-room had never been included in his plans for the town was too small to permit disposing of silver.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">As a matter of fact his plans were of the vaguest.</span>
   <span id="f000508">He had found that with a mind like his,</span>
   <span id="f000509">lucrative in intelligence,</span>
   <span id="f000510">intuition,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and lightning decision,</span>
   <span id="f000512">it was best to have but the skeleton of a campaign.</span>
   <span id="f000513">The machine-gun episode had taught him that.</span>
   <span id="f000514">And he was afraid that a method preconceived would give him two points of view in a crisis – and two points of view meant wavering.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">He stumbled slightly on a chair,</span>
   <span id="f000516">held his breath,</span>
   <span id="f000517">listened,</span>
   <span id="f000518">went on,</span>
   <span id="f000519">found the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000520">found the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000521">started up;</span>
   <span id="f000522">the seventh stair creaked at his step,</span>
   <span id="f000523">the ninth,</span>
   <span id="f000524">the fourteenth.</span>
   <span id="f000525">He was counting them automatically.</span>
   <span id="f000526">At the third creak he paused again for over a minute – and in that minute he felt more alone than he had ever felt before.</span>
   <span id="f000527">Between the lines on patrol,</span>
   <span id="f000528">even when alone,</span>
   <span id="f000529">he had had behind him the moral support of half a billion people;</span>
   <span id="f000530">now he was alone,</span>
   <span id="f000531">pitted against that same moral pressure – a bandit.</span>
   <span id="f000532">He had never felt this fear,</span>
   <span id="f000533">yet he had never felt this exultation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">The stairs came to an end,</span>
   <span id="f000535">a doorway approached;</span>
   <span id="f000536">he went in and listened to regular breathing.</span>
   <span id="f000537">His feet were economical of steps and his body swayed sometimes at stretching as he felt over the bureau,</span>
   <span id="f000538">pocketing all articles which held promise – he could not have enumerated them ten seconds afterward.</span>
   <span id="f000539">He felt on a chair for possible trousers,</span>
   <span id="f000540">found soft garments,</span>
   <span id="f000541">women’s lingerie.</span>
   <span id="f000542">The corners of his mouth smiled mechanically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">Another room…</span>
   <span id="f000544">the same breathing,</span>
   <span id="f000545">enlivened by one ghastly snort that sent his heart again on its tour of his breast.</span>
   <span id="f000546">Round object – watch;</span>
   <span id="f000547">chain;</span>
   <span id="f000548">roll of bills;</span>
   <span id="f000549">stick-pins;</span>
   <span id="f000550">two rings – he remembered that he had got rings from the other bureau.</span>
   <span id="f000551">He started out winced as a faint glow flashed in front of him,</span>
   <span id="f000552">facing him.</span>
   <span id="f000553">God!</span>
   <span id="f000554">– it was the glow of his own wrist-watch on his outstretched arm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">Down the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000556">He skipped two crumbing steps but found another.</span>
   <span id="f000557">He was all right now,</span>
   <span id="f000558">practically safe;</span>
   <span id="f000559">as he neared the bottom he felt a slight boredom.</span>
   <span id="f000560">He reached the dining-room – considered the silver – again decided against it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">Back in his room at the boarding-house he examined the additions to his personal property:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">Sixty-five dollars in bills.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">A platinum ring with three medium diamonds,</span>
   <span id="f000564">worth,</span>
   <span id="f000565">probably,</span>
   <span id="f000566">about seven hundred dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000567">Diamonds were going up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">A cheap gold-plated ring with the initials O.</span>
   <span id="f000569">S.</span>
   <span id="f000570">and the date inside – ’03 – probably a class-ring from school.</span>
   <span id="f000571">Worth a few dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000572">Unsalable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000573">A red-cloth case containing a set of false teeth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">A silver watch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">A gold chain worth more than the watch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">An empty ring-box.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">A little ivory Chinese god – probably a desk ornament.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000578">A dollar and sixty-two cents in small change.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">He put the money under his pillow and the other things in the toe of an infantry boot,</span>
   <span id="f000580">stuffing a stocking in on top of them.</span>
   <span id="f000581">Then for two hours his mind raced like a high-power engine here and there through his life,</span>
   <span id="f000582">past and future,</span>
   <span id="f000583">through fear and laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000584">With a vague,</span>
   <span id="f000585">inopportune wish that he were married,</span>
   <span id="f000586">he fell into a deep sleep about half past five.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000587">VI</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000588">Though the newspaper account of the burglary failed to mention the false teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000589">they worried him considerably.</span>
   <span id="f000590">The picture of a human waking in the cool dawn and groping for them in vain,</span>
   <span id="f000591">of a soft,</span>
   <span id="f000592">toothless breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000593">of a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000594">hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000595">lisping voice calling the police station,</span>
   <span id="f000596">of weary,</span>
   <span id="f000597">dispirited visits to the dentist,</span>
   <span id="f000598">roused a great fatherly pity in him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">Trying to ascertain whether they belonged to a man or a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000600">he took them carefully out of the case and held them up near his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000601">He moved his own jaws experimentally;</span>
   <span id="f000602">he measured with his fingers;</span>
   <span id="f000603">but he failed to decide:</span>
   <span id="f000604">they might belong either to a large-mouthed woman or a small-mouthed man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">On a warm impulse he wrapped them in brown paper from the bottom of his army trunk,</span>
   <span id="f000606">and printed FALSE TEETH on the package in clumsy pencil letters.</span>
   <span id="f000607">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000608">the next night,</span>
   <span id="f000609">he walked down Philmore Street,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and shied the package onto the lawn so that it would be near the door.</span>
   <span id="f000611">Next day the paper announced that the police had a clew – they knew that the burglar was in town.</span>
   <span id="f000612">However,</span>
   <span id="f000613">they didn’t mention what the clew was.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000614">VII</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000615">At the end of a month “Burglar Bill of the Silver District was the nurse-girl’s standby for frightening children.</span>
   <span id="f000616">Five burglaries were attributed to him,</span>
   <span id="f000617">but though Dalyrimple had only committed three,</span>
   <span id="f000618">he considered that majority had it and appropriated the title to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000619">He had once been seen – ”a large bloated creature with the meanest face you ever laid eyes on.“ Mrs.&#160;Henry Coleman,</span>
   <span id="f000620">awaking at two o’clock at the beam of an electric torch flashed in her eye,</span>
   <span id="f000621">could not have been expected to recognize Bryan Dalyrimple at whom she had waved flags last Fourth of July,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and whom she had described as ”not at all the daredevil type,</span>
   <span id="f000623">do you think?"</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000624">When Dalyrimple kept his imagination at white heat he managed to glorify his own attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000625">his emancipation from petty scruples and remorses – but let him once allow his thought to rove unarmored,</span>
   <span id="f000626">great unexpected horrors and depressions would overtake him.</span>
   <span id="f000627">Then for reassurance he had to go back to think out the whole thing over again.</span>
   <span id="f000628">He found that it was on the whole better to give up considering himself as a rebel.</span>
   <span id="f000629">It was more consoling to think of every one else as a fool.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">His attitude toward Mr.&#160;Macy underwent a change.</span>
   <span id="f000631">He no longer felt a dim animosity and inferiority in his presence.</span>
   <span id="f000632">As his fourth month in the store ended he found himself regarding his employer in a manner that was almost fraternal.</span>
   <span id="f000633">He had a vague but very assured conviction that Mr.&#160;Macy’s innermost soul would have abetted and approved.</span>
   <span id="f000634">He no longer worried about his future.</span>
   <span id="f000635">He had the intention of accumulating several thousand dollars and then clearing out – going east,</span>
   <span id="f000636">back to France,</span>
   <span id="f000637">down to South America.</span>
   <span id="f000638">Half a dozen times in the last two months he had been about to stop work,</span>
   <span id="f000639">but a fear of attracting attention to his being in funds prevented him.</span>
   <span id="f000640">So he worked on,</span>
   <span id="f000641">no longer in listlessness,</span>
   <span id="f000642">but with contemptuous amusement.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000643">VIII</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000644">Then with astounding suddenness something happened that changed his plans and put an end to his burglaries.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">Mr.&#160;Macy sent for him one afternoon and with a great show of jovial mystery asked him if he had an engagement that night.</span>
   <span id="f000646">If he hadn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000647">would he please call on Mr.&#160;Alfred J.</span>
   <span id="f000648">Fraser at eight o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000649">Dalyrimple’s wonder was mingled with uncertainty.</span>
   <span id="f000650">He debated with himself whether it were not his cue to take the first train out of town.</span>
   <span id="f000651">But an hour’s consideration decided him that his fears were unfounded and at eight o’clock he arrived at the big Fraser house in Philmore Avenue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">Mr.&#160;Fraser was commonly supposed to be the biggest political influence in the city.</span>
   <span id="f000653">His brother was Senator Fraser,</span>
   <span id="f000654">his son-in-law was Congressman Demming,</span>
   <span id="f000655">and his influence,</span>
   <span id="f000656">though not wielded in such a way as to make him an objectionable boss,</span>
   <span id="f000657">was strong nevertheless.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">He had a great,</span>
   <span id="f000659">huge face,</span>
   <span id="f000660">deep-set eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000661">and a barn-door of an upper lip,</span>
   <span id="f000662">the melange approaching a worthy climax in a long professional jaw.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">During his conversation with Dalyrimple his expression kept starting toward a smile,</span>
   <span id="f000664">reached a cheerful optimism,</span>
   <span id="f000665">and then receded back to imperturbability.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">“How do you do,</span>
   <span id="f000667">sir?” he laid,</span>
   <span id="f000668">holding out his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000669">“Sit down.</span>
   <span id="f000670">I suppose you’re wondering why I wanted you.</span>
   <span id="f000671">Sit down.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">Dalyrimple sat down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“Mr.&#160;Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000674">how old are you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">“I’m twenty-three.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">“You’re young.</span>
   <span id="f000677">But that doesn’t mean you’re foolish.</span>
   <span id="f000678">Mr.&#160;Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000679">what I’ve got to say won’t take long.</span>
   <span id="f000680">I’m going to make you a proposition.</span>
   <span id="f000681">To begin at the beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000682">I’ve been watching you ever since last Fourth of July when you made that speech in response to the loving-cup.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">Dalyrimple murmured disparagingly,</span>
   <span id="f000684">but Fraser waved him to silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">“It was a speech I’ve remembered.</span>
   <span id="f000686">It was a brainy speech,</span>
   <span id="f000687">straight from the shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and it got to everybody in that crowd.</span>
   <span id="f000689">I know.</span>
   <span id="f000690">I’ve watched crowds for years.” He cleared his throat as if tempted to digress on his knowledge of crowds – then continued.</span>
   <span id="f000691">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000692">Mr.&#160;Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000693">I’ve seen too many young men who promised brilliantly go to pieces,</span>
   <span id="f000694">fail through want of steadiness,</span>
   <span id="f000695">too many high-power ideas,</span>
   <span id="f000696">and not enough willingness to work.</span>
   <span id="f000697">So I waited.</span>
   <span id="f000698">I wanted to see what you’d do.</span>
   <span id="f000699">I wanted to see if you’d go to work,</span>
   <span id="f000700">and if you’d stick to what you started.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">Dalyrimple felt a glow settle over him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">“So,” continued Fraser,</span>
   <span id="f000703">“when Theron Macy told me you’d started down at his place,</span>
   <span id="f000704">I kept watching you,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and I followed your record through him.</span>
   <span id="f000706">The first month I was afraid for awhile.</span>
   <span id="f000707">He told me you were getting restless,</span>
   <span id="f000708">too good for your job,</span>
   <span id="f000709">hinting around for a raise – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">Dalyrimple started.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“ – But he said after that you evidently made up your mind to shut up and stick to it.</span>
   <span id="f000712">That’s the stuff I like in a young man!</span>
   <span id="f000713">That’s the stuff that wins out.</span>
   <span id="f000714">And don’t think I don’t understand.</span>
   <span id="f000715">I know how much harder it was for you after all that silly flattery a lot of old women had been giving you.</span>
   <span id="f000716">I know what a fight it must have been – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">Dalyrimple’s face was burning brightly.</span>
   <span id="f000718">It felt young and strangely ingenuous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000719">“Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000720">you’ve got brains and you’ve got the stuff in you – and that’s what I want.</span>
   <span id="f000721">I’m going to put you into the State Senate.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000722">“The WHAT?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">“The State Senate.</span>
   <span id="f000724">We want a young man who has got brains,</span>
   <span id="f000725">but is solid and not a loafer.</span>
   <span id="f000726">And when I say State Senate I don’t stop there.</span>
   <span id="f000727">We’re up against it here,</span>
   <span id="f000728">Dalyrimple.</span>
   <span id="f000729">We’ve got to get some young men into politics – you know the old blood that’s been running on the party ticket year in and year out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">Dalyrimple licked his lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">“You’ll run me for the State Senate?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">“I’ll PUT you in the State Senate.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">Mr.&#160;Fraser’s expression had now reached the point nearest a smile and Dalyrimple in a happy frivolity felt himself urging it mentally on – but it stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000734">locked,</span>
   <span id="f000735">and slid from him.</span>
   <span id="f000736">The barn-door and the jaw were separated by a line strait as a nail.</span>
   <span id="f000737">Dalyrimple remembered with an effort that it was a mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and talked to it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">“But I’m through,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000740">“My notoriety’s dead.</span>
   <span id="f000741">People are fed up with me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000742">“Those things,” answered Mr.&#160;Fraser,</span>
   <span id="f000743">“are mechanical.</span>
   <span id="f000744">Linotype is a resuscitator of reputations.</span>
   <span id="f000745">Wait till you see the HERALD,</span>
   <span id="f000746">beginning next week – that is if you’re with us – that is,” and his voice hardened slightly,</span>
   <span id="f000747">“if you haven’t got too many ideas yourself about how things ought to be run.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000748">“No,” said Dalyrimple,</span>
   <span id="f000749">looking him frankly in the eye.</span>
   <span id="f000750">“You’ll have to give me a lot of advice at first.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000751">“Very well.</span>
   <span id="f000752">I’ll take care of your reputation then.</span>
   <span id="f000753">Just keep yourself on the right side of the fence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">Dalyrimple started at this repetition of a phrase he had thought of so much lately.</span>
   <span id="f000755">There was a sudden ring at the door-bell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000756">“That’s Macy now,” observed Fraser,</span>
   <span id="f000757">rising.</span>
   <span id="f000758">“I’ll go let him in.</span>
   <span id="f000759">The servants have gone to bed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000760">He left Dalyrimple there in a dream.</span>
   <span id="f000761">The world was opening up suddenly – The State Senate,</span>
   <span id="f000762">the United States Senate – so life was this after all – cutting corners – common sense,</span>
   <span id="f000763">that was the rule.</span>
   <span id="f000764">No more foolish risks now unless necessity called – but it was being hard that counted – Never to let remorse or self-reproach lose him a night’s sleep – let his life be a sword of courage – there was no payment – all that was drivel – drivel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">He sprang to his feet with clinched hands in a sort of triumph.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000766">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000767">Bryan,” said Mr.&#160;Macy stepping through the portières.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">The two older men smiled their half-smiles at him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000769">“Well Bryan,” said Mr.&#160;Macy again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000770">Dalyrimple smiled also.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000771">“How do,</span>
   <span id="f000772">Mr.&#160;Macy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000773">He wondered if some telepathy between them had made this new appreciation possible – some invisible realization…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000774">Mr.&#160;Macy held out his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">“I’m glad we’re to be associated in this scheme – I’ve been for you all along – especially lately.</span>
   <span id="f000776">I’m glad we’re to be on the same side of the fence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000777">“I want to thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000778">sir,” said Dalyrimple simply.</span>
   <span id="f000779">He felt a whimsical moisture gathering back of his eyes.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

