<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">“Brother to a Prince and fellow to a beggar if he be found worthy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000003">The Law,</span>
   <span id="f000004">as quoted,</span>
   <span id="f000005">lays down a fair conduct of life,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and one not easy to follow.</span>
   <span id="f000007">I have been fellow to a beggar again and again under circumstances which prevented either of us finding out whether the other was worthy.</span>
   <span id="f000008">I have still to be brother to a Prince,</span>
   <span id="f000009">though I once came near to kinship with what might have been a veritable King and was promised the reversion of a Kingdom —army,</span>
   <span id="f000010">law-courts,</span>
   <span id="f000011">revenue and policy all complete.</span>
   <span id="f000012">But,</span>
   <span id="f000013">to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000014">I greatly fear that my King is dead,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and if I want a crown I must go and hunt it for myself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">The beginning of everything was in a railway train upon the road to Mhow from Ajmir.</span>
   <span id="f000017">There had been a deficit in the Budget,</span>
   <span id="f000018">which necessitated travelling,</span>
   <span id="f000019">not Second-class,</span>
   <span id="f000020">which is only half as dear as First-class,</span>
   <span id="f000021">but by Intermediate,</span>
   <span id="f000022">which is very awful indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000023">There are no cushions in the Intermediate class,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and the population are either Intermediate,</span>
   <span id="f000025">which is Eurasian,</span>
   <span id="f000026">or native,</span>
   <span id="f000027">which for a long night journey is nasty;</span>
   <span id="f000028">or Loafer,</span>
   <span id="f000029">which is amusing though intoxicated.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Intermediates do not patronize refreshment-rooms.</span>
   <span id="f000031">They carry their food in bundles and pots,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and buy sweets from the native sweetmeat-sellers,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and drink the roadside water.</span>
   <span id="f000034">That is why in the hot weather Intermediates are taken out of the carriages dead,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and in all weathers are most properly looked down upon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">My particular Intermediate happened to be empty till I reached Nasirabad,</span>
   <span id="f000037">when a huge gentleman in shirt-sleeves entered,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and,</span>
   <span id="f000039">following the custom of Intermediates,</span>
   <span id="f000040">passed the time of day.</span>
   <span id="f000041">He was a wanderer and a vagabond like myself,</span>
   <span id="f000042">but with an educated taste for whiskey.</span>
   <span id="f000043">He told tales of things he had seen and done,</span>
   <span id="f000044">of out-of-the-way corners of the Empire into which he had penetrated,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and of adventures in which he risked his life for a few days’ food.</span>
   <span id="f000046">“If India was filled with men like you and me,</span>
   <span id="f000047">not knowing more than the crows where they’d get their next day’s rations,</span>
   <span id="f000048">it isn’t seventy millions of revenue the land would be paying—it’s seven hundred million,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000049">and as I looked at his mouth and chin I was disposed to agree with him.</span>
   <span id="f000050">We talked politics—the politics of Loaferdom that sees things from the underside where the lath and plaster is not smoothed off—and we talked postal arrangements because my friend wanted to send a telegram back from the next station to Ajmir,</span>
   <span id="f000051">which is the turning-off place from the Bombay to the Mhow line as you travel westward.</span>
   <span id="f000052">My friend had no money beyond eight annas which he wanted for dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and I had no money at all,</span>
   <span id="f000054">owing to the hitch in the Budget before mentioned.</span>
   <span id="f000055">Further,</span>
   <span id="f000056">I was going into a wilderness where,</span>
   <span id="f000057">though I should resume touch with the Treasury,</span>
   <span id="f000058">there were no telegraph offices.</span>
   <span id="f000059">I was,</span>
   <span id="f000060">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000061">unable to help him in any way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“We might threaten a Station-master,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and make him send a wire on tick,” said my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000064">“but that’d mean inquiries for you and for me,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and I’ve got my hands full these days.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Did you say you are travelling back along this line within any days?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“Within ten,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">“Can’t you make it eight?” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000069">“Mine is rather urgent business.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“I can send your telegram within ten days if that will serve you,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“I couldn’t trust the wire to fetch him now I think of it.</span>
   <span id="f000072">It’s this way.</span>
   <span id="f000073">He leaves Delhi on the 23d for Bombay.</span>
   <span id="f000074">That means he’ll be running through Ajmir about the night of the 23d.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“But I’m going into the Indian Desert,” I explained.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“Well and good,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000077">“You’ll be changing at Marwar Junction to get into Jodhpore territory—you must do that—and he’ll be coming through Marwar Junction in the early morning of the 24th by the Bombay Mail.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Can you be at Marwar Junction on that time?</span>
   <span id="f000079">’Twon’t be inconveniencing you because I know that there’s precious few pickings to be got out of these Central India States—even though you pretend to be correspondent of the Backwoodsman.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“Have you ever tried that trick?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“Again and again,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but the Residents find you out,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and then you get escorted to the Border before you’ve time to get your knife into them.</span>
   <span id="f000084">But about my friend here.</span>
   <span id="f000085">I must give him a word o’ mouth to tell him what’s come to me or else he won’t know where to go.</span>
   <span id="f000086">I would take it more than kind of you if you was to come out of Central India in time to catch him at Marwar Junction,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and say to him:—‘He has gone South for the week.’ He’ll know what that means.</span>
   <span id="f000088">He’s a big man with a red beard,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and a great swell he is.</span>
   <span id="f000090">You’ll find him sleeping like a gentleman with all his luggage round him in a second-class compartment.</span>
   <span id="f000091">But don’t you be afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Slip down the window,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and say:—‘He has gone South for the week,’ and he’ll tumble.</span>
   <span id="f000094">It’s only cutting your time of stay in those parts by two days.</span>
   <span id="f000095">I ask you as a stranger—going to the West,” he said with emphasis.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“Where have you come from?” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“From the East,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000098">“and I am hoping that you will give him the message on the Square—for the sake of my Mother as well as your own.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">Englishmen are not usually softened by appeals to the memory of their mothers,</span>
   <span id="f000100">but for certain reasons,</span>
   <span id="f000101">which will be fully apparent,</span>
   <span id="f000102">I saw fit to agree.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“It’s more than a little matter,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000104">“and that’s why I ask you to do it—and now I know that I can depend on you doing it.</span>
   <span id="f000105">A second-class carriage at Marwar Junction,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and a red-haired man asleep in it.</span>
   <span id="f000107">You’ll be sure to remember.</span>
   <span id="f000108">I get out at the next station,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and I must hold on there till he comes or sends me what I want.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“I’ll give the message if I catch him,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000111">“and for the sake of your Mother as well as mine I’ll give you a word of advice.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Don’t try to run the Central India States just now as the correspondent of the Backwoodsman.</span>
   <span id="f000113">There’s a real one knocking about here,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and it might lead to trouble.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“Thank you,” said he simply,</span>
   <span id="f000116">“and when will the swine be gone?</span>
   <span id="f000117">I can’t starve because he’s ruining my work.</span>
   <span id="f000118">I wanted to get hold of the Degumber Rajah down here about his father’s widow,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and give him a jump.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“What did he do to his father’s widow,</span>
   <span id="f000121">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“Filled her up with red pepper and slippered her to death as she hung from a beam.</span>
   <span id="f000123">I found that out myself and I’m the only man that would dare going into the State to get hush-money for it.</span>
   <span id="f000124">They’ll try to poison me,</span>
   <span id="f000125">same as they did in Chortumna when I went on the loot there.</span>
   <span id="f000126">But you’ll give the man at Marwar Junction my message?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">He got out at a little roadside station,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and I reflected.</span>
   <span id="f000129">I had heard,</span>
   <span id="f000130">more than once,</span>
   <span id="f000131">of men personating correspondents of newspapers and bleeding small Native States with threats of exposure,</span>
   <span id="f000132">but I had never met any of the caste before.</span>
   <span id="f000133">They lead a hard life,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and generally die with great suddenness.</span>
   <span id="f000135">The Native States have a wholesome horror of English newspapers,</span>
   <span id="f000136">which may throw light on their peculiar methods of government,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and do their best to choke correspondents with champagne,</span>
   <span id="f000138">or drive them out of their mind with four-in-hand barouches.</span>
   <span id="f000139">They do not understand that nobody cares a straw for the internal administration of Native States so long as oppression and crime are kept within decent limits,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and the ruler is not drugged,</span>
   <span id="f000141">drunk,</span>
   <span id="f000142">or diseased from one end of the year to the other.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Native States were created by Providence in order to supply picturesque scenery,</span>
   <span id="f000144">tigers and tall-writing.</span>
   <span id="f000145">They are the dark places of the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000146">full of unimaginable cruelty,</span>
   <span id="f000147">touching the Railway and the Telegraph on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and,</span>
   <span id="f000149">on the other,</span>
   <span id="f000150">the days of Harun-al-Raschid.</span>
   <span id="f000151">When I left the train I did business with divers Kings,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and in eight days passed through many changes of life.</span>
   <span id="f000153">Sometimes I wore dress-clothes and consorted with Princes and Politicals,</span>
   <span id="f000154">drinking from crystal and eating from silver.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Sometimes I lay out upon the ground and devoured what I could get,</span>
   <span id="f000156">from a plate made of a flapjack,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and drank the running water,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and slept under the same rug as my servant.</span>
   <span id="f000159">It was all in a day’s work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">Then I headed for the Great Indian Desert upon the proper date,</span>
   <span id="f000161">as I had promised,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and the night Mail set me down at Marwar Junction,</span>
   <span id="f000163">where a funny little,</span>
   <span id="f000164">happy-go-lucky,</span>
   <span id="f000165">native managed railway runs to Jodhpore.</span>
   <span id="f000166">The Bombay Mail from Delhi makes a short halt at Marwar.</span>
   <span id="f000167">She arrived as I got in,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and I had just time to hurry to her platform and go down the carriages.</span>
   <span id="f000169">There was only one second-class on the train.</span>
   <span id="f000170">I slipped the window and looked down upon a flaming red beard,</span>
   <span id="f000171">half covered by a railway rug.</span>
   <span id="f000172">That was my man,</span>
   <span id="f000173">fast asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and I dug him gently in the ribs.</span>
   <span id="f000175">He woke with a grunt and I saw his face in the light of the lamps.</span>
   <span id="f000176">It was a great and shining face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Tickets again?” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“No,” said I.</span>
   <span id="f000179">“I am to tell you that he is gone South for the week.</span>
   <span id="f000180">He is gone South for the week!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">The train had begun to move out.</span>
   <span id="f000182">The red man rubbed his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000183">“He has gone South for the week,” he repeated.</span>
   <span id="f000184">“Now that’s just like his impudence.</span>
   <span id="f000185">Did he say that I was to give you anything?—’Cause I won’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“He didn’t,” I said and dropped away,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and watched the red lights die out in the dark.</span>
   <span id="f000188">It was horribly cold because the wind was blowing off the sands.</span>
   <span id="f000189">I climbed into my own train—not an Intermediate Carriage this time—and went to sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">If the man with the beard had given me a rupee I should have kept it as a memento of a rather curious affair.</span>
   <span id="f000191">But the consciousness of having done my duty was my only reward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">Later on I reflected that two gentlemen like my friends could not do any good if they foregathered and personated correspondents of newspapers,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and might,</span>
   <span id="f000194">if they “stuck up” one of the little rat-trap states of Central India or Southern Rajputana,</span>
   <span id="f000195">get themselves into serious difficulties.</span>
   <span id="f000196">I therefore took some trouble to describe them as accurately as I could remember to people who would be interested in deporting them;</span>
   <span id="f000197">and succeeded,</span>
   <span id="f000198">so I was later informed,</span>
   <span id="f000199">in having them headed back from the Degumber borders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">Then I became respectable,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and returned to an Office where there were no Kings and no incidents except the daily manufacture of a newspaper.</span>
   <span id="f000202">A newspaper office seems to attract every conceivable sort of person,</span>
   <span id="f000203">to the prejudice of discipline.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Zenana-mission ladies arrive,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and beg that the Editor will instantly abandon all his duties to describe a Christian prize-giving in a back-slum of a perfectly inaccessible village;</span>
   <span id="f000206">Colonels who have been overpassed for commands sit down and sketch the outline of a series of ten,</span>
   <span id="f000207">twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000208">or twenty-four leading articles on Seniority versus Selection;</span>
   <span id="f000209">missionaries wish to know why they have not been permitted to escape from their regular vehicles of abuse and swear at a brother-missionary under special patronage of the editorial We;</span>
   <span id="f000210">stranded theatrical companies troop up to explain that they cannot pay for their advertisements,</span>
   <span id="f000211">but on their return from New Zealand or Tahiti will do so with interest;</span>
   <span id="f000212">inventors of patent punkah-pulling machines,</span>
   <span id="f000213">carriage couplings and unbreakable swords and axle-trees call with specifications in their pockets and hours at their disposal;</span>
   <span id="f000214">tea-companies enter and elaborate their prospectuses with the office pens;</span>
   <span id="f000215">secretaries of ball-committees clamor to have the glories of their last dance more fully expounded;</span>
   <span id="f000216">strange ladies rustle in and say:—“I want a hundred lady’s cards printed at once,</span>
   <span id="f000217">please,” which is manifestly part of an Editor’s duty;</span>
   <span id="f000218">and every dissolute ruffian that ever tramped the Grand Trunk Road makes it his business to ask for employment as a proof-reader.</span>
   <span id="f000219">And,</span>
   <span id="f000220">all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000221">the telephone-bell is ringing madly,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and Kings are being killed on the Continent,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and Empires are saying,</span>
   <span id="f000224">“You’re another,” and Mister Gladstone is calling down brimstone upon the British Dominions,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and the little black copy-boys are whining,</span>
   <span id="f000226">“kaa-pi chayha-yeh”</span>
   <span id="f000227">(copy wanted)</span>
   <span id="f000228">like tired bees,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and most of the paper is as blank as Modred’s shield.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">But that is the amusing part of the year.</span>
   <span id="f000231">There are other six months wherein none ever come to call,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and the thermometer walks inch by inch up to the top of the glass,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and the office is darkened to just above reading light,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and the press machines are red-hot of touch,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and nobody writes anything but accounts of amusements in the Hill-stations or obituary notices.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Then the telephone becomes a tinkling terror,</span>
   <span id="f000237">because it tells you of the sudden deaths of men and women that you knew intimately,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and the prickly-heat covers you as with a garment,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and you sit down and write:—“A slight increase of sickness is reported from the Khuda Janta Khan District.</span>
   <span id="f000240">The outbreak is purely sporadic in its nature,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and,</span>
   <span id="f000242">thanks to the energetic efforts of the District authorities,</span>
   <span id="f000243">is now almost at an end.</span>
   <span id="f000244">It is,</span>
   <span id="f000245">however,</span>
   <span id="f000246">with deep regret we record the death,</span>
   <span id="f000247">etc.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">Then the sickness really breaks out,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and the less recording and reporting the better for the peace of the subscribers.</span>
   <span id="f000250">But the Empires and the Kings continue to divert themselves as selfishly as before,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and the foreman thinks that a daily paper really ought to come out once in twenty-four hours,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and all the people at the Hill-stations in the middle of their amusements say:—“Good gracious!</span>
   <span id="f000253">Why can’t the paper be sparkling?</span>
   <span id="f000254">I’m sure there’s plenty going on up here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">That is the dark half of the moon,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and,</span>
   <span id="f000257">as the advertisements say,</span>
   <span id="f000258">“must be experienced to be appreciated.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">It was in that season,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and a remarkably evil season,</span>
   <span id="f000261">that the paper began running the last issue of the week on Saturday night,</span>
   <span id="f000262">which is to say Sunday morning,</span>
   <span id="f000263">after the custom of a London paper.</span>
   <span id="f000264">This was a great convenience,</span>
   <span id="f000265">for immediately after the paper was put to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000266">the dawn would lower the thermometer from 96° to almost 84° for almost half an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and in that chill—you have no idea how cold is 84° on the grass until you begin to pray for it—a very tired man could set off to sleep ere the heat roused him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">One Saturday night it was my pleasant duty to put the paper to bed alone.</span>
   <span id="f000269">A King or courtier or a courtesan or a community was going to die or get a new Constitution,</span>
   <span id="f000270">or do something that was important on the other side of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and the paper was to be held open till the latest possible minute in order to catch the telegram.</span>
   <span id="f000272">It was a pitchy black night,</span>
   <span id="f000273">as stifling as a June night can be,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and the loo,</span>
   <span id="f000275">the red-hot wind from the westward,</span>
   <span id="f000276">was booming among the tinder-dry trees and pretending that the rain was on its heels.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Now and again a spot of almost boiling water would fall on the dust with the flop of a frog,</span>
   <span id="f000278">but all our weary world knew that was only pretence.</span>
   <span id="f000279">It was a shade cooler in the press-room than the office,</span>
   <span id="f000280">so I sat there,</span>
   <span id="f000281">while the type ticked and clicked,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and the night-jars hooted at the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and the all but naked compositors wiped the sweat from their foreheads and called for water.</span>
   <span id="f000284">The thing that was keeping us back,</span>
   <span id="f000285">whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f000286">would not come off,</span>
   <span id="f000287">though the loo dropped and the last type was set,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and the whole round earth stood still in the choking heat,</span>
   <span id="f000289">with its finger on its lip,</span>
   <span id="f000290">to wait the event.</span>
   <span id="f000291">I drowsed,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and wondered whether the telegraph was a blessing,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and whether this dying man,</span>
   <span id="f000294">or struggling people,</span>
   <span id="f000295">was aware of the inconvenience the delay was causing.</span>
   <span id="f000296">There was no special reason beyond the heat and worry to make tension,</span>
   <span id="f000297">but,</span>
   <span id="f000298">as the clock-hands crept up to three o’clock and the machines spun their fly-wheels two and three times to see that all was in order,</span>
   <span id="f000299">before I said the word that would set them off,</span>
   <span id="f000300">I could have shrieked aloud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">Then the roar and rattle of the wheels shivered the quiet into little bits.</span>
   <span id="f000302">I rose to go away,</span>
   <span id="f000303">but two men in white clothes stood in front of me.</span>
   <span id="f000304">The first one said:—“It’s him!” The second said —“So it is!” And they both laughed almost as loudly as the machinery roared,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and mopped their foreheads.</span>
   <span id="f000306">“We see there was a light burning across the road and we were sleeping in that ditch there for coolness,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and I said to my friend here,</span>
   <span id="f000308">the office is open.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Let’s come along and speak to him as turned us back from the Degumber State,” said the smaller of the two.</span>
   <span id="f000310">He was the man I had met in the Mhow train,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and his fellow was the red-bearded man of Marwar Junction.</span>
   <span id="f000312">There was no mistaking the eyebrows of the one or the beard of the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">I was not pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000314">because I wished to go to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000315">not to squabble with loafers.</span>
   <span id="f000316">“What do you want?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“Half an hour’s talk with you cool and comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000318">in the office,” said the red-bearded man.</span>
   <span id="f000319">“We’d like some drink—the Contrack doesn’t begin yet,</span>
   <span id="f000320">Peachey,</span>
   <span id="f000321">so you needn’t look—but what we really want is advice.</span>
   <span id="f000322">We don’t want money.</span>
   <span id="f000323">We ask you as a favor,</span>
   <span id="f000324">because you did us a bad turn about Degumber.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">I led from the press-room to the stifling office with the maps on the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and the red-haired man rubbed his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000327">“That’s something like,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000328">“This was the proper shop to come to.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000330">Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000331">let me introduce to you Brother Peachey Carnehan,</span>
   <span id="f000332">that’s him,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and Brother Daniel Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000334">that is me,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and the less said about our professions the better,</span>
   <span id="f000336">for we have been most things in our time.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Soldier,</span>
   <span id="f000338">sailor,</span>
   <span id="f000339">compositor,</span>
   <span id="f000340">photographer,</span>
   <span id="f000341">proof-reader,</span>
   <span id="f000342">street-preacher,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and correspondents of the Backwoodsman when we thought the paper wanted one.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Carnehan is sober,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and so am I.</span>
   <span id="f000346">Look at us first and see that’s sure.</span>
   <span id="f000347">It will save you cutting into my talk.</span>
   <span id="f000348">We’ll take one of your cigars apiece,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and you shall see us light.” I watched the test.</span>
   <span id="f000350">The men were absolutely sober,</span>
   <span id="f000351">so I gave them each a tepid peg.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">“Well and good,” said Carnehan of the eyebrows,</span>
   <span id="f000353">wiping the froth from his mustache.</span>
   <span id="f000354">“Let me talk now,</span>
   <span id="f000355">Dan.</span>
   <span id="f000356">We have been all over India,</span>
   <span id="f000357">mostly on foot.</span>
   <span id="f000358">We have been boiler-fitters,</span>
   <span id="f000359">engine-drivers,</span>
   <span id="f000360">petty contractors,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and all that,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and we have decided that India isn’t big enough for such as us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">They certainly were too big for the office.</span>
   <span id="f000364">Dravot’s beard seemed to fill half the room and Carnehan’s shoulders the other half,</span>
   <span id="f000365">as they sat on the big table.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Carnehan continued:</span>
   <span id="f000367">—“The country isn’t half worked out because they that governs it won’t let you touch it.</span>
   <span id="f000368">They spend all their blessed time in governing it,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and you can’t lift a spade,</span>
   <span id="f000370">nor chip a rock,</span>
   <span id="f000371">nor look for oil,</span>
   <span id="f000372">nor anything like that without all the Government saying—‘Leave it alone and let us govern.’ Therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000373">such as it is,</span>
   <span id="f000374">we will let it alone,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and go away to some other place where a man isn’t crowded and can come to his own.</span>
   <span id="f000376">We are not little men,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and there is nothing that we are afraid of except Drink,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and we have signed a Contrack on that.</span>
   <span id="f000379">Therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000380">we are going away to be Kings.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">“Kings in our own right,” muttered Dravot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000383">of course,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000384">“You’ve been tramping in the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and it’s a very warm night,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and hadn’t you better sleep over the notion?</span>
   <span id="f000387">Come to-morrow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“Neither drunk nor sunstruck,” said Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000389">“We have slept over the notion half a year,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and require to see Books and Atlases,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and we have decided that there is only one place now in the world that two strong men can Sar-a-whack.</span>
   <span id="f000392">They call it Kafiristan.</span>
   <span id="f000393">By my reckoning its the top right-hand corner of Afghanistan,</span>
   <span id="f000394">not more than three hundred miles from Peshawar.</span>
   <span id="f000395">They have two and thirty heathen idols there,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and we’ll be the thirty-third.</span>
   <span id="f000397">It’s a mountainous country,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and the women of those parts are very beautiful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“But that is provided against in the Contrack,” said Carnehan.</span>
   <span id="f000400">“Neither Women nor Liquor,</span>
   <span id="f000401">Daniel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“And that’s all we know,</span>
   <span id="f000403">except that no one has gone there,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and they fight,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and in any place where they fight a man who knows how to drill men can always be a King.</span>
   <span id="f000406">We shall go to those parts and say to any King we find—‘D’ you want to vanquish your foes?’ and we will show him how to drill men;</span>
   <span id="f000407">for that we know better than anything else.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Then we will subvert that King and seize his Throne and establish a Dy-nasty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">“You’ll be cut to pieces before you’re fifty miles across the Border,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000410">“You have to travel through Afghanistan to get to that country.</span>
   <span id="f000411">It’s one mass of mountains and peaks and glaciers,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and no Englishman has been through it.</span>
   <span id="f000413">The people are utter brutes,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and even if you reached them you couldn’t do anything.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“That’s more like,” said Carnehan.</span>
   <span id="f000416">“If you could think us a little more mad we would be more pleased.</span>
   <span id="f000417">We have come to you to know about this country,</span>
   <span id="f000418">to read a book about it,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and to be shown maps.</span>
   <span id="f000420">We want you to tell us that we are fools and to show us your books.” He turned to the book-cases.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">“Are you at all in earnest?” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">“A little,” said Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000423">sweetly.</span>
   <span id="f000424">“As big a map as you have got,</span>
   <span id="f000425">even if it’s all blank where Kafiristan is,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and any books you’ve got.</span>
   <span id="f000427">We can read,</span>
   <span id="f000428">though we aren’t very educated.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">I uncased the big thirty-two-miles-to-the-inch map of India,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and two smaller Frontier maps,</span>
   <span id="f000431">hauled down volume INF-KAN of the Encyclopædia Britannica,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and the men consulted them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“See here!” said Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000434">his thumb on the map.</span>
   <span id="f000435">“Up to Jagdallak,</span>
   <span id="f000436">Peachey and me know the road.</span>
   <span id="f000437">We was there with Roberts’s Army.</span>
   <span id="f000438">We’ll have to turn off to the right at Jagdallak through Laghmann territory.</span>
   <span id="f000439">Then we get among the hills— fourteen thousand feet—fifteen thousand— it will be cold work there,</span>
   <span id="f000440">but it don’t look very far on the map.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">I handed him Wood on the Sources of the Oxus.</span>
   <span id="f000442">Carnehan was deep in the Encyclopædia.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“They’re a mixed lot,” said Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000444">reflectively;</span>
   <span id="f000445">“and it won’t help us to know the names of their tribes.</span>
   <span id="f000446">The more tribes the more they’ll fight,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and the better for us.</span>
   <span id="f000448">From Jagdallak to Ashang.</span>
   <span id="f000449">H’mm!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">“But all the information about the country is as sketchy and inaccurate as can be,” I protested.</span>
   <span id="f000451">“No one knows anything about it really.</span>
   <span id="f000452">Here’s the file of the United Services’ Institute.</span>
   <span id="f000453">Read what Bellew says.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“Blow Bellew!” said Carnehan.</span>
   <span id="f000455">“Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000456">they’re an all-fired lot of heathens,</span>
   <span id="f000457">but this book here says they think they’re related to us English.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">I smoked while the men pored over Raverty,</span>
   <span id="f000459">Wood,</span>
   <span id="f000460">the maps and the Encyclopædia.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“There is no use your waiting,” said Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000462">politely.</span>
   <span id="f000463">“It’s about four o’clock now.</span>
   <span id="f000464">We’ll go before six o’clock if you want to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and we won’t steal any of the papers.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Don’t you sit up.</span>
   <span id="f000467">We’re two harmless lunatics,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and if you come,</span>
   <span id="f000469">to-morrow evening,</span>
   <span id="f000470">down to the Serai we’ll say good-by to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">“You are two fools,” I answered.</span>
   <span id="f000472">“You’ll be turned back at the Frontier or cut up the minute you set foot in Afghanistan.</span>
   <span id="f000473">Do you want any money or a recommendation down-country?</span>
   <span id="f000474">I can help you to the chance of work next week.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“Next week we shall be hard at work ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000476">thank you,” said Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000477">“It isn’t so easy being a King as it looks.</span>
   <span id="f000478">When we’ve got our Kingdom in going order we’ll let you know,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and you can come up and help us to govern it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">“Would two lunatics make a Contrack like that!” said Carnehan,</span>
   <span id="f000481">with subdued pride,</span>
   <span id="f000482">showing me a greasy half-sheet of note-paper on which was written the following.</span>
   <span id="f000483">I copied it,</span>
   <span id="f000484">then and there,</span>
   <span id="f000485">as a curiosity:—</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000486">This Contract between me and you persuing witnesseth in the name of God—Amen and so forth.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000487">(One)</span>
   <span id="f000488">That me and you will settle this matter together:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000489">i.e.,</span>
   <span id="f000490">to be Kings of Kafiristan.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000491">(Two)</span>
   <span id="f000492">That you and me will not while this matter is<br /></span>
   <span id="f000493">being settled,</span>
   <span id="f000494">look at any Liquor,</span>
   <span id="f000495">nor any<br /></span>
   <span id="f000496">Woman black,</span>
   <span id="f000497">white or brown,</span>
   <span id="f000498">so as to get<br /></span>
   <span id="f000499">mixed up with one or the other harmful.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000500">(Three)</span>
   <span id="f000501">That we conduct ourselves with Dignity and<br /></span>
   <span id="f000502">Discretion,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and if one of us gets into trouble<br /></span>
   <span id="f000504">the other will stay by him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">Signed by you and me this day.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000506">Peachey Taliaferro Carnehan.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000507">Daniel Dravot.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000508">Both Gentlemen at Large.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000509">“There was no need for the last article,” said Carnehan,</span>
   <span id="f000510">blushing modestly;</span>
   <span id="f000511">“but it looks regular.</span>
   <span id="f000512">Now you know the sort of men that loafers are—we are loafers,</span>
   <span id="f000513">Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000514">until we get out of India—and do you think that we could sign a Contrack like that unless we was in earnest?</span>
   <span id="f000515">We have kept away from the two things that make life worth having.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">“You won’t enjoy your lives much longer if you are going to try this idiotic adventure.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Don’t set the office on fire,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000518">“and go away before nine o’clock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">I left them still poring over the maps and making notes on the back of the “Contrack.” “Be sure to come down to the Serai to-morrow,” were their parting words.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

