<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">The Kumharsen Serai is the great four-square sink of humanity where the strings of camels and horses from the North load and unload.</span>
   <span id="f000003">All the nationalities of Central Asia may be found there,</span>
   <span id="f000004">and most of the folk of India proper.</span>
   <span id="f000005">Balkh and Bokhara there meet Bengal and Bombay,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and try to draw eye-teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000007">You can buy ponies,</span>
   <span id="f000008">turquoises,</span>
   <span id="f000009">Persian pussy-cats,</span>
   <span id="f000010">saddle-bags,</span>
   <span id="f000011">fat-tailed sheep and musk in the Kumharsen Serai,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and get many strange things for nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000013">In the afternoon I went down there to see whether my friends intended to keep their word or were lying about drunk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">A priest attired in fragments of ribbons and rags stalked up to me,</span>
   <span id="f000015">gravely twisting a child’s paper whirligig.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Behind him was his servant,</span>
   <span id="f000017">bending under the load of a crate of mud toys.</span>
   <span id="f000018">The two were loading up two camels,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and the inhabitants of the Serai watched them with shrieks of laughter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">“The priest is mad,” said a horse-dealer to me.</span>
   <span id="f000021">“He is going up to Kabul to sell toys to the Amir.</span>
   <span id="f000022">He will either be raised to honor or have his head cut off.</span>
   <span id="f000023">He came in here this morning and has been behaving madly ever since.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">“The witless are under the protection of God,” stammered a flat-cheeked Usbeg in broken Hindi.</span>
   <span id="f000025">“They foretell future events.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“Would they could have foretold that my caravan would have been cut up by the Shinwaris almost within shadow of the Pass!” grunted the Eusufzai agent of a Rajputana trading-house whose goods had been feloniously diverted into the hands of other robbers just across the Border,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and whose misfortunes were the laughing-stock of the bazar.</span>
   <span id="f000028">“Ohé,</span>
   <span id="f000029">priest,</span>
   <span id="f000030">whence come you and whither do you go?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“From Roum have I come,” shouted the priest,</span>
   <span id="f000032">waving his whirligig;</span>
   <span id="f000033">“from Roum,</span>
   <span id="f000034">blown by the breath of a hundred devils across the sea!</span>
   <span id="f000035">O thieves,</span>
   <span id="f000036">robbers,</span>
   <span id="f000037">liars,</span>
   <span id="f000038">the blessing of Pir Khan on pigs,</span>
   <span id="f000039">dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and perjurers!</span>
   <span id="f000041">Who will take the Protected of God to the North to sell charms that are never still to the Amir?</span>
   <span id="f000042">The camels shall not gall,</span>
   <span id="f000043">the sons shall not fall sick,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and the wives shall remain faithful while they are away,</span>
   <span id="f000045">of the men who give me place in their caravan.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Who will assist me to slipper the King of the Roos with a golden slipper with a silver heel?</span>
   <span id="f000047">The protection of Pir Kahn be upon his labors!” He spread out the skirts of his gaberdine and pirouetted between the lines of tethered horses.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“There starts a caravan from Peshawar to Kabul in twenty days,</span>
   <span id="f000049">Huzrut,” said the Eusufzai trader.</span>
   <span id="f000050">“My camels go therewith.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Do thou also go and bring us good luck.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“I will go even now!” shouted the priest.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“I will depart upon my winged camels,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and be at Peshawar in a day!</span>
   <span id="f000055">Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000056">Hazar Mir Khan,” he yelled to his servant “drive out the camels,</span>
   <span id="f000057">but let me first mount my own.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">He leaped on the back of his beast as it knelt,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and turning round to me,</span>
   <span id="f000060">cried:—</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">“Come thou also,</span>
   <span id="f000062">Sahib,</span>
   <span id="f000063">a little along the road,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and I will sell thee a charm—an amulet that shall make thee King of Kafiristan.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">Then the light broke upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and I followed the two camels out of the Serai till we reached open road and the priest halted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“What d’ you think o’ that?” said he in English.</span>
   <span id="f000068">“Carnehan can’t talk their patter,</span>
   <span id="f000069">so I’ve made him my servant.</span>
   <span id="f000070">He makes a handsome servant.</span>
   <span id="f000071">’Tisn’t for nothing that I’ve been knocking about the country for fourteen years.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Didn’t I do that talk neat?</span>
   <span id="f000073">We’ll hitch on to a caravan at Peshawar till we get to Jagdallak,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and then we’ll see if we can get donkeys for our camels,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and strike into Kafiristan.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Whirligigs for the Amir,</span>
   <span id="f000077">O Lor!</span>
   <span id="f000078">Put your hand under the camel-bags and tell me what you feel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">I felt the butt of a Martini,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and another and another.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“Twenty of ’em,” said Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000082">placidly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">“Twenty of ’em,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and ammunition to correspond,</span>
   <span id="f000085">under the whirligigs and the mud dolls.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“Heaven help you if you are caught with those things!” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000087">“A Martini is worth her weight in silver among the Pathans.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“Fifteen hundred rupees of capital—every rupee we could beg,</span>
   <span id="f000089">borrow,</span>
   <span id="f000090">or steal—are invested on these two camels,” said Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000091">“We won’t get caught.</span>
   <span id="f000092">We’re going through the Khaiber with a regular caravan.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Who’d touch a poor mad priest?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“Have you got everything you want?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000095">overcome with astonishment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“Not yet,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but we shall soon.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Give us a momento of your kindness,</span>
   <span id="f000099">Brother.</span>
   <span id="f000100">You did me a service yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and that time in Marwar.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Half my Kingdom shall you have,</span>
   <span id="f000103">as the saying is.” I slipped a small charm compass from my watch-chain and handed it up to the priest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“Good-by,” said Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000105">giving me his hand cautiously.</span>
   <span id="f000106">“It’s the last time we’ll shake hands with an Englishman these many days.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Shake hands with him,</span>
   <span id="f000108">Carnehan,” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000109">as the second camel passed me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">Carnehan leaned down and shook hands.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Then the camels passed away along the dusty road,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and I was left alone to wonder.</span>
   <span id="f000113">My eye could detect no failure in the disguises.</span>
   <span id="f000114">The scene in the Serai attested that they were complete to the native mind.</span>
   <span id="f000115">There was just the chance,</span>
   <span id="f000116">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000117">that Carnehan and Dravot would be able to wander through Afghanistan without detection.</span>
   <span id="f000118">But,</span>
   <span id="f000119">beyond,</span>
   <span id="f000120">they would find death,</span>
   <span id="f000121">certain and awful death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">Ten days later a native friend of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000123">giving me the news of the day from Peshawar,</span>
   <span id="f000124">wound up his letter with:—“There has been much laughter here on account of a certain mad priest who is going in his estimation to sell petty gauds and insignificant trinkets which he ascribes as great charms to H.</span>
   <span id="f000125">H.</span>
   <span id="f000126">the Amir of Bokhara.</span>
   <span id="f000127">He passed through Peshawar and associated himself to the Second Summer caravan that goes to Kabul.</span>
   <span id="f000128">The merchants are pleased because through superstition they imagine that such mad fellows bring good-fortune.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">The two then,</span>
   <span id="f000130">were beyond the Border.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I would have prayed for them,</span>
   <span id="f000132">but,</span>
   <span id="f000133">that night,</span>
   <span id="f000134">a real King died in Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and demanded an obituary notice.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000136">The wheel of the world swings through the same phases again and again.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Summer passed and winter thereafter,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and came and passed again.</span>
   <span id="f000139">The daily paper continued and I with it,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and upon the third summer there fell a hot night,</span>
   <span id="f000141">a night-issue,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and a strained waiting for something to be telegraphed from the other side of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000143">exactly as had happened before.</span>
   <span id="f000144">A few great men had died in the past two years,</span>
   <span id="f000145">the machines worked with more clatter,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and some of the trees in the Office garden were a few feet taller.</span>
   <span id="f000147">But that was all the difference.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">I passed over to the press-room,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and went through just such a scene as I have already described.</span>
   <span id="f000150">The nervous tension was stronger than it had been two years before,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and I felt the heat more acutely.</span>
   <span id="f000152">At three o’clock I cried,</span>
   <span id="f000153">“Print off,” and turned to go,</span>
   <span id="f000154">when there crept to my chair what was left of a man.</span>
   <span id="f000155">He was bent into a circle,</span>
   <span id="f000156">his head was sunk between his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and he moved his feet one over the other like a bear.</span>
   <span id="f000158">I could hardly see whether he walked or crawled—this rag-wrapped,</span>
   <span id="f000159">whining cripple who addressed me by name,</span>
   <span id="f000160">crying that he was come back.</span>
   <span id="f000161">“Can you give me a drink?” he whimpered.</span>
   <span id="f000162">“For the Lord’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000163">give me a drink!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">I went back to the office,</span>
   <span id="f000165">the man following with groans of pain,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and I turned up the lamp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“Don’t you know me?” he gasped,</span>
   <span id="f000168">dropping into a chair,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and he turned his drawn face,</span>
   <span id="f000170">surmounted by a shock of gray hair,</span>
   <span id="f000171">to the light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">I looked at him intently.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Once before had I seen eyebrows that met over the nose in an inch-broad black band,</span>
   <span id="f000174">but for the life of me I could not tell where.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“I don’t know you,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000176">handing him the whiskey.</span>
   <span id="f000177">“What can I do for you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">He took a gulp of the spirit raw,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and shivered in spite of the suffocating heat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“I’ve come back,” he repeated;</span>
   <span id="f000181">“and I was the King of Kafiristan—me and Dravot —crowned Kings we was!</span>
   <span id="f000182">In this office we settled it—you setting there and giving us the books.</span>
   <span id="f000183">I am Peachey—Peachey Taliaferro Carnehan,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and you’ve been setting here ever since—O Lord!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">I was more than a little astonished,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and expressed my feelings accordingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“It’s true,” said Carnehan,</span>
   <span id="f000188">with a dry cackle,</span>
   <span id="f000189">nursing his feet which were wrapped in rags.</span>
   <span id="f000190">“True as gospel.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Kings we were,</span>
   <span id="f000192">with crowns upon our heads—me and Dravot —poor Dan—oh,</span>
   <span id="f000193">poor,</span>
   <span id="f000194">poor Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000195">that would never take advice,</span>
   <span id="f000196">not though I begged of him!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“Take the whiskey,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000198">“and take your own time.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Tell me all you can recollect of everything from beginning to end.</span>
   <span id="f000200">You got across the border on your camels,</span>
   <span id="f000201">Dravot dressed as a mad priest and you his servant.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Do you remember that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">“I ain’t mad—yet,</span>
   <span id="f000204">but I will be that way soon.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Of course I remember.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Keep looking at me,</span>
   <span id="f000207">or maybe my words will go all to pieces.</span>
   <span id="f000208">Keep looking at me in my eyes and don’t say anything.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">I leaned forward and looked into his face as steadily as I could.</span>
   <span id="f000210">He dropped one hand upon the table and I grasped it by the wrist.</span>
   <span id="f000211">It was twisted like a bird’s claw,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and upon the back was a ragged,</span>
   <span id="f000213">red,</span>
   <span id="f000214">diamond-shaped scar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000216">don’t look there.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Look at me,” said Carnehan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“That comes afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000219">but for the Lord’s sake don’t distrack me.</span>
   <span id="f000220">We left with that caravan,</span>
   <span id="f000221">me and Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000222">playing all sorts of antics to amuse the people we were with.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Dravot used to make us laugh in the evenings when all the people was cooking their dinners—cooking their dinners,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and …</span>
   <span id="f000225">what did they do then?</span>
   <span id="f000226">They lit little fires with sparks that went into Dravot’s beard,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and we all laughed—fit to die.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Little red fires they was,</span>
   <span id="f000229">going into Dravot’s big red beard—so funny.” His eyes left mine and he smiled foolishly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">“You went as far as Jagdallak with that caravan,” I said at a venture,</span>
   <span id="f000231">“after you had lit those fires.</span>
   <span id="f000232">To Jagdallak,</span>
   <span id="f000233">where you turned off to try to get into Kafiristan.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000235">we didn’t neither.</span>
   <span id="f000236">What are you talking about?</span>
   <span id="f000237">We turned off before Jagdallak,</span>
   <span id="f000238">because we heard the roads was good.</span>
   <span id="f000239">But they wasn’t good enough for our two camels—mine and Dravot’s.</span>
   <span id="f000240">When we left the caravan,</span>
   <span id="f000241">Dravot took off all his clothes and mine too,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and said we would be heathen,</span>
   <span id="f000243">because the Kafirs didn’t allow Mohammedans to talk to them.</span>
   <span id="f000244">So we dressed betwixt and between,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and such a sight as Daniel Dravot I never saw yet nor expect to see again.</span>
   <span id="f000246">He burned half his beard,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and slung a sheep-skin over his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and shaved his head into patterns.</span>
   <span id="f000249">He shaved mine,</span>
   <span id="f000250">too,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and made me wear outrageous things to look like a heathen.</span>
   <span id="f000252">That was in a most mountaineous country,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and our camels couldn’t go along any more because of the mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000254">They were tall and black,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and coming home I saw them fight like wild goats—there are lots of goats in Kafiristan.</span>
   <span id="f000256">And these mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000257">they never keep still,</span>
   <span id="f000258">no more than the goats.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Always fighting they are,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and don’t let you sleep at night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“Take some more whiskey,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000262">very slowly.</span>
   <span id="f000263">“What did you and Daniel Dravot do when the camels could go no further because of the rough roads that led into Kafiristan?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“What did which do?</span>
   <span id="f000265">There was a party called Peachey Taliaferro Carnehan that was with Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Shall I tell you about him?</span>
   <span id="f000267">He died out there in the cold.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Slap from the bridge fell old Peachey,</span>
   <span id="f000269">turning and twisting in the air like a penny whirligig that you can sell to the Amir—No;</span>
   <span id="f000270">they was two for three ha’pence,</span>
   <span id="f000271">those whirligigs,</span>
   <span id="f000272">or I am much mistaken and woful sore.</span>
   <span id="f000273">And then these camels were no use,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and Peachey said to Dravot—‘For the Lord’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000275">let’s get out of this before our heads are chopped off,’ and with that they killed the camels all among the mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000276">not having anything in particular to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000277">but first they took off the boxes with the guns and the ammunition,</span>
   <span id="f000278">till two men came along driving four mules.</span>
   <span id="f000279">Dravot up and dances in front of them,</span>
   <span id="f000280">singing,—‘Sell me four mules.’ Says the first man,—‘If you are rich enough to buy,</span>
   <span id="f000281">you are rich enough to rob;’ but before ever he could put his hand to his knife,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Dravot breaks his neck over his knee,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and the other party runs away.</span>
   <span id="f000284">So Carnehan loaded the mules with the rifles that was taken off the camels,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and together we starts forward into those bitter cold mountainous parts,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and never a road broader than the back of your hand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">He paused for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000288">while I asked him if he could remember the nature of the country through which he had journeyed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“I am telling you as straight as I can,</span>
   <span id="f000290">but my head isn’t as good as it might be.</span>
   <span id="f000291">They drove nails through it to make me hear better how Dravot died.</span>
   <span id="f000292">The country was mountainous and the mules were most contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and the inhabitants was dispersed and solitary.</span>
   <span id="f000294">They went up and up,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and down and down,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and that other party Carnehan,</span>
   <span id="f000297">was imploring of Dravot not to sing and whistle so loud,</span>
   <span id="f000298">for fear of bringing down the tremenjus avalanches.</span>
   <span id="f000299">But Dravot says that if a King couldn’t sing it wasn’t worth being King,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and whacked the mules over the rump,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and never took no heed for ten cold days.</span>
   <span id="f000302">We came to a big level valley all among the mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and the mules were near dead,</span>
   <span id="f000304">so we killed them,</span>
   <span id="f000305">not having anything in special for them or us to eat.</span>
   <span id="f000306">We sat upon the boxes,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and played odd and even with the cartridges that was jolted out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Then ten men with bows and arrows ran down that valley,</span>
   <span id="f000309">chasing twenty men with bows and arrows,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and the row was tremenjus.</span>
   <span id="f000311">They was fair men—fairer than you or me—with yellow hair and remarkable well built.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Says Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000313">unpacking the guns—‘This is the beginning of the business.</span>
   <span id="f000314">We’ll fight for the ten men,’ and with that he fires two rifles at the twenty men and drops one of them at two hundred yards from the rock where we was sitting.</span>
   <span id="f000315">The other men began to run,</span>
   <span id="f000316">but Carnehan and Dravot sits on the boxes picking them off at all ranges,</span>
   <span id="f000317">up and down the valley.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Then we goes up to the ten men that had run across the snow too,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and they fires a footy little arrow at us.</span>
   <span id="f000320">Dravot he shoots above their heads and they all falls down flat.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Then he walks over them and kicks them,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and then he lifts them up and shakes hands all around to make them friendly like.</span>
   <span id="f000323">He calls them and gives them the boxes to carry,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and waves his hand for all the world as though he was King already.</span>
   <span id="f000325">They takes the boxes and him across the valley and up the hill into a pine wood on the top,</span>
   <span id="f000326">where there was half a dozen big stone idols.</span>
   <span id="f000327">Dravot he goes to the biggest—a fellow they call Imbra—and lays a rifle and a cartridge at his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000328">rubbing his nose respectful with his own nose,</span>
   <span id="f000329">patting him on the head,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and saluting in front of it.</span>
   <span id="f000331">He turns round to the men and nods his head,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and says,—‘That’s all right.</span>
   <span id="f000333">I’m in the know too,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and these old jim-jams are my friends.’ Then he opens his mouth and points down it,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and when the first man brings him food,</span>
   <span id="f000336">he says—‘No;’ and when the second man brings him food,</span>
   <span id="f000337">he says— ‘No;’ but when one of the old priests and the boss of the village brings him food,</span>
   <span id="f000338">he says—‘Yes;’ very haughty,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and eats it slow.</span>
   <span id="f000340">That was how we came to our first village,</span>
   <span id="f000341">without any trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000342">just as though we had tumbled from the skies.</span>
   <span id="f000343">But we tumbled from one of those damned rope-bridges,</span>
   <span id="f000344">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and you couldn’t expect a man to laugh much after that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">“Take some more whiskey and go on,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000347">“That was the first village you came into.</span>
   <span id="f000348">How did you get to be King?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“I wasn’t King,” said Carnehan.</span>
   <span id="f000350">“Dravot he was the King,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and a handsome man he looked with the gold crown on his head and all.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Him and the other party stayed in that village,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and every morning Dravot sat by the side of old Imbra,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and the people came and worshipped.</span>
   <span id="f000355">That was Dravot’s order.</span>
   <span id="f000356">Then a lot of men came into the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and Carnehan and Dravot picks them off with the rifles before they knew where they was,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and runs down into the valley and up again the other side,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and finds another village,</span>
   <span id="f000360">same as the first one,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and the people all falls down flat on their faces,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and Dravot says,— ‘Now what is the trouble between you two villages?’ and the people points to a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000363">as fair as you or me,</span>
   <span id="f000364">that was carried off,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and Dravot takes her back to the first village and counts up the dead—eight there was.</span>
   <span id="f000366">For each dead man Dravot pours a little milk on the ground and waves his arms like a whirligig and,</span>
   <span id="f000367">‘That’s all right,’ says he.</span>
   <span id="f000368">Then he and Carnehan takes the big boss of each village by the arm and walks them down into the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and shows them how to scratch a line with a spear right down the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and gives each a sod of turf from both sides o’ the line.</span>
   <span id="f000371">Then all the people comes down and shouts like the devil and all,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and Dravot says,—‘Go and dig the land,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and be fruitful and multiply,’ which they did,</span>
   <span id="f000374">though they didn’t understand.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Then we asks the names of things in their lingo—bread and water and fire and idols and such,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and Dravot leads the priest of each village up to the idol,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and says he must sit there and judge the people,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and if anything goes wrong he is to be shot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“Next week they was all turning up the land in the valley as quiet as bees and much prettier,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and the priests heard all the complaints and told Dravot in dumb show what it was about.</span>
   <span id="f000381">‘That’s just the beginning,’ says Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000382">‘They think we’re gods.’ He and Carnehan picks out twenty good men and shows them how to click off a rifle,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and form fours,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and advance in line,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and they was very pleased to do so,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and clever to see the hang of it.</span>
   <span id="f000387">Then he takes out his pipe and his baccy-pouch and leaves one at one village,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and one at the other,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and off we two goes to see what was to be done in the next valley.</span>
   <span id="f000390">That was all rock,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and there was a little village there,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and Carnehan says,— ‘Send ’em to the old valley to plant,’ and takes ’em there and gives ’em some land that wasn’t took before.</span>
   <span id="f000393">They were a poor lot,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and we blooded ’em with a kid before letting ’em into the new Kingdom.</span>
   <span id="f000395">That was to impress the people,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and then they settled down quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and Carnehan went back to Dravot who had got into another valley,</span>
   <span id="f000398">all snow and ice and most mountainous.</span>
   <span id="f000399">There was no people there and the Army got afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000400">so Dravot shoots one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and goes on till he finds some people in a village,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and the Army explains that unless the people wants to be killed they had better not shoot their little matchlocks;</span>
   <span id="f000403">for they had matchlocks.</span>
   <span id="f000404">We makes friends with the priest and I stays there alone with two of the Army,</span>
   <span id="f000405">teaching the men how to drill,</span>
   <span id="f000406">and a thundering big Chief comes across the snow with kettledrums and horns twanging,</span>
   <span id="f000407">because he heard there was a new god kicking about.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Carnehan sights for the brown of the men half a mile across the snow and wings one of them.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Then he sends a message to the Chief that,</span>
   <span id="f000410">unless he wished to be killed,</span>
   <span id="f000411">he must come and shake hands with me and leave his arms behind.</span>
   <span id="f000412">The Chief comes alone first,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and Carnehan shakes hands with him and whirls his arms about,</span>
   <span id="f000414">same as Dravot used,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and very much surprised that Chief was,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and strokes my eyebrows.</span>
   <span id="f000417">Then Carnehan goes alone to the Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and asks him in dumb show if he had an enemy he hated.</span>
   <span id="f000419">‘I have,’ says the Chief.</span>
   <span id="f000420">So Carnehan weeds out the pick of his men,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and sets the two of the Army to show them drill and at the end of two weeks the men can manœuvre about as well as Volunteers.</span>
   <span id="f000422">So he marches with the Chief to a great big plain on the top of a mountain,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and the Chiefs men rushes into a village and takes it;</span>
   <span id="f000424">we three Martinis firing into the brown of the enemy.</span>
   <span id="f000425">So we took that village too,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and I gives the Chief a rag from my coat and says,</span>
   <span id="f000427">‘Occupy till I come’:</span>
   <span id="f000428">which was scriptural.</span>
   <span id="f000429">By way of a reminder,</span>
   <span id="f000430">when me and the Army was eighteen hundred yards away,</span>
   <span id="f000431">I drops a bullet near him standing on the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and all the people falls flat on their faces.</span>
   <span id="f000433">Then I sends a letter to Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000434">wherever he be by land or by sea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">At the risk of throwing the creature out of train I interrupted,—“How could you write a letter up yonder?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">“The letter?—Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000437">— The letter!</span>
   <span id="f000438">Keep looking at me between the eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000439">please.</span>
   <span id="f000440">It was a string-talk letter,</span>
   <span id="f000441">that we’d learned the way of it from a blind beggar in the Punjab.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">I remember that there had once come to the office a blind man with a knotted twig and a piece of string which he wound round the twig according to some cypher of his own.</span>
   <span id="f000443">He could,</span>
   <span id="f000444">after the lapse of days or hours,</span>
   <span id="f000445">repeat the sentence which he had reeled up.</span>
   <span id="f000446">He had reduced the alphabet to eleven primitive sounds;</span>
   <span id="f000447">and tried to teach me his method,</span>
   <span id="f000448">but failed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“I sent that letter to Dravot,” said Carnehan;</span>
   <span id="f000450">“and told him to come back because this Kingdom was growing too big for me to handle,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and then I struck for the first valley,</span>
   <span id="f000452">to see how the priests were working.</span>
   <span id="f000453">They called the village we took along with the Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000454">Bashkai,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and the first village we took,</span>
   <span id="f000456">Er-Heb.</span>
   <span id="f000457">The priest at Er-Heb was doing all right,</span>
   <span id="f000458">but they had a lot of pending cases about land to show me,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and some men from another village had been firing arrows at night.</span>
   <span id="f000460">I went out and looked for that village and fired four rounds at it from a thousand yards.</span>
   <span id="f000461">That used all the cartridges I cared to spend,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and I waited for Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000463">who had been away two or three months,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and I kept my people quiet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“One morning I heard the devil’s own noise of drums and horns,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and Dan Dravot marches down the hill with his Army and a tail of hundreds of men,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and,</span>
   <span id="f000468">which was the most amazing—a great gold crown on his head.</span>
   <span id="f000469">‘My Gord,</span>
   <span id="f000470">Carnehan,’ says Daniel,</span>
   <span id="f000471">‘this is a tremenjus business,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and we’ve got the whole country as far as it’s worth having.</span>
   <span id="f000473">I am the son of Alexander by Queen Semiramis,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and you’re my younger brother and a god too!</span>
   <span id="f000475">It’s the biggest thing we’ve ever seen.</span>
   <span id="f000476">I’ve been marching and fighting for six weeks with the Army,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and every footy little village for fifty miles has come in rejoiceful;</span>
   <span id="f000478">and more than that,</span>
   <span id="f000479">I’ve got the key of the whole show,</span>
   <span id="f000480">as you’ll see,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and I’ve got a crown for you!</span>
   <span id="f000482">I told ’em to make two of ’em at a place called Shu,</span>
   <span id="f000483">where the gold lies in the rock like suet in mutton.</span>
   <span id="f000484">Gold I’ve seen,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and turquoise I’ve kicked out of the cliffs,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and there’s garnets in the sands of the river,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and here’s a chunk of amber that a man brought me.</span>
   <span id="f000488">Call up all the priests and,</span>
   <span id="f000489">here,</span>
   <span id="f000490">take your crown.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">“One of the men opens a black hair bag and I slips the crown on.</span>
   <span id="f000492">It was too small and too heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000493">but I wore it for the glory.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Hammered gold it was—five pound weight,</span>
   <span id="f000495">like a hoop of a barrel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“‘Peachey,’ says Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000497">‘we don’t want to fight no more.</span>
   <span id="f000498">The Craft’s the trick so help me!’ and he brings forward that same Chief that I left at Bashkai—Billy Fish we called him afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000499">because he was so like Billy Fish that drove the big tank-engine at Mach on the Bolan in the old days.</span>
   <span id="f000500">‘Shake hands with him,’ says Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and I shook hands and nearly dropped,</span>
   <span id="f000502">for Billy Fish gave me the Grip.</span>
   <span id="f000503">I said nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000504">but tried him with the Fellow Craft Grip.</span>
   <span id="f000505">He answers,</span>
   <span id="f000506">all right,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and I tried the Master’s Grip,</span>
   <span id="f000508">but that was a slip.</span>
   <span id="f000509">‘A Fellow Craft he is!’ I says to Dan.</span>
   <span id="f000510">‘Does he know the word?’ ‘He does,’ says Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000511">‘and all the priests know.</span>
   <span id="f000512">It’s a miracle!</span>
   <span id="f000513">The Chiefs and the priest can work a Fellow Craft Lodge in a way that’s very like ours,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and they’ve cut the marks on the rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000515">but they don’t know the Third Degree,</span>
   <span id="f000516">and they’ve come to find out.</span>
   <span id="f000517">It’s Gord’s Truth.</span>
   <span id="f000518">I’ve known these long years that the Afghans knew up to the Fellow Craft Degree,</span>
   <span id="f000519">but this is a miracle.</span>
   <span id="f000520">A god and a Grand-Master of the Craft am I,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and a Lodge in the Third Degree I will open,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and we’ll raise the head priests and the Chiefs of the villages.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“‘It’s against all the law,’ I says,</span>
   <span id="f000524">‘holding a Lodge without warrant from any one;</span>
   <span id="f000525">and we never held office in any Lodge.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“‘It’s a master-stroke of policy,’ says Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000527">‘It means running the country as easy as a four-wheeled bogy on a down grade.</span>
   <span id="f000528">We can’t stop to inquire now,</span>
   <span id="f000529">or they’ll turn against us.</span>
   <span id="f000530">I’ve forty Chiefs at my heel,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and passed and raised according to their merit they shall be.</span>
   <span id="f000532">Billet these men on the villages and see that we run up a Lodge of some kind.</span>
   <span id="f000533">The temple of Imbra will do for the Lodge-room.</span>
   <span id="f000534">The women must make aprons as you show them.</span>
   <span id="f000535">I’ll hold a levee of Chiefs tonight and Lodge to-morrow.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">“I was fair rim off my legs,</span>
   <span id="f000537">but I wasn’t such a fool as not to see what a pull this Craft business gave us.</span>
   <span id="f000538">I showed the priests’ families how to make aprons of the degrees,</span>
   <span id="f000539">but for Dravot’s apron the blue border and marks was made of turquoise lumps on white hide,</span>
   <span id="f000540">not cloth.</span>
   <span id="f000541">We took a great square stone in the temple for the Master’s chair,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and little stones for the officers’ chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000543">and painted the black pavement with white squares,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and did what we could to make things regular.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">“At the levee which was held that night on the hillside with big bonfires,</span>
   <span id="f000546">Dravot gives out that him and me were gods and sons of Alexander,</span>
   <span id="f000547">and Past Grand-Masters in the Craft,</span>
   <span id="f000548">and was come to make Kafiristan a country where every man should eat in peace and drink in quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and specially obey us.</span>
   <span id="f000550">Then the Chiefs come round to shake hands,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and they was so hairy and white and fair it was just shaking hands with old friends.</span>
   <span id="f000552">We gave them names according as they was like men we had known in India—Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000553">Holly Dilworth,</span>
   <span id="f000554">Pikky Kergan that was Bazar-master when I was at Mhow,</span>
   <span id="f000555">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and so on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">“The most amazing miracle was at Lodge next night.</span>
   <span id="f000558">One of the old priests was watching us continuous,</span>
   <span id="f000559">and I felt uneasy,</span>
   <span id="f000560">for I knew we’d have to fudge the Ritual,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and I didn’t know what the men knew.</span>
   <span id="f000562">The old priest was a stranger come in from beyond the village of Bashkai.</span>
   <span id="f000563">The minute Dravot puts on the Master’s apron that the girls had made for him,</span>
   <span id="f000564">the priest fetches a whoop and a howl,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and tries to overturn the stone that Dravot was sitting on.</span>
   <span id="f000566">‘It’s all up now,’ I says.</span>
   <span id="f000567">‘That comes of meddling with the Craft without warrant!’ Dravot never winked an eye,</span>
   <span id="f000568">not when ten priests took and tilted over the Grand-Master’s chair —which was to say the stone of Imbra.</span>
   <span id="f000569">The priest begins rubbing the bottom end of it to clear away the black dirt,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and presently he shows all the other priests the Master’s Mark,</span>
   <span id="f000571">same as was on Dravot’s apron,</span>
   <span id="f000572">cut into the stone.</span>
   <span id="f000573">Not even the priests of the temple of Imbra knew it was there.</span>
   <span id="f000574">The old chap falls flat on his face at Dravot’s feet and kisses ’em.</span>
   <span id="f000575">‘Luck again,’ says Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000576">across the Lodge to me,</span>
   <span id="f000577">‘they say it’s the missing Mark that no one could understand the why of.</span>
   <span id="f000578">We’re more than safe now.’ Then he bangs the butt of his gun for a gavel and says:—‘By virtue of the authority vested in me by my own right hand and the help of Peachey,</span>
   <span id="f000579">I declare myself Grand-Master of all Freemasonry in Kafiristan in this the Mother Lodge o’ the country,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and King of Kafiristan equally with Peachey!’ At that he puts on his crown and I puts on mine—I was doing Senior Warden—and we opens the Lodge in most ample form.</span>
   <span id="f000581">It was a amazing miracle!</span>
   <span id="f000582">The priests moved in Lodge through the first two degrees almost without telling,</span>
   <span id="f000583">as if the memory was coming back to them.</span>
   <span id="f000584">After that,</span>
   <span id="f000585">Peachey and Dravot raised such as was worthy— high priests and Chiefs of far-off villages.</span>
   <span id="f000586">Billy Fish was the first,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and I can tell you we scared the soul out of him.</span>
   <span id="f000588">It was not in any way according to Ritual,</span>
   <span id="f000589">but it served our turn.</span>
   <span id="f000590">We didn’t raise more than ten of the biggest men because we didn’t want to make the Degree common.</span>
   <span id="f000591">And they was clamoring to be raised.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“‘In another six months,’ says Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000593">‘we’ll hold another Communication and see how you are working.’ Then he asks them about their villages,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and learns that they was fighting one against the other and were fair sick and tired of it.</span>
   <span id="f000595">And when they wasn’t doing that they was fighting with the Mohammedans.</span>
   <span id="f000596">‘You can fight those when they come into our country,’ says Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000597">‘Tell off every tenth man of your tribes for a Frontier guard,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and send two hundred at a time to this valley to be drilled.</span>
   <span id="f000599">Nobody is going to be shot or speared any more so long as he does well,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and I know that you won’t cheat me because you’re white people—sons of Alexander—and not like common,</span>
   <span id="f000601">black Mohammedans.</span>
   <span id="f000602">You are my people and by God,’ says he,</span>
   <span id="f000603">running off into English at the end—‘I’ll make a damned fine Nation of you,</span>
   <span id="f000604">or I’ll die in the making!’</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

