<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">“I can’t tell all we did for the next six months because Dravot did a lot I couldn’t see the hang of,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and he learned their lingo in a way I never could.</span>
   <span id="f000004">My work was to help the people plough,</span>
   <span id="f000005">and now and again to go out with some of the Army and see what the other villages were doing,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and make ’em throw rope-bridges across the ravines which cut up the country horrid.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Dravot was very kind to me,</span>
   <span id="f000008">but when he walked up and down in the pine wood pulling that bloody red beard of his with both fists I knew he was thinking plans I could not advise him about,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and I just waited for orders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">“But Dravot never showed me disrespect before the people.</span>
   <span id="f000011">They were afraid of me and the Army,</span>
   <span id="f000012">but they loved Dan.</span>
   <span id="f000013">He was the best of friends with the priests and the Chiefs;</span>
   <span id="f000014">but any one could come across the hills with a complaint and Dravot would hear him out fair,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and call four priests together and say what was to be done.</span>
   <span id="f000016">He used to call in Billy Fish from Bashkai,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and Pikky Kergan from Shu,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and an old Chief we called Kafuzelum—it was like enough to his real name—and hold councils with ’em when there was any fighting to be done in small villages.</span>
   <span id="f000019">That was his Council of War,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and the four priests of Bashkai,</span>
   <span id="f000021">Shu,</span>
   <span id="f000022">Khawak,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and Madora was his Privy Council.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Between the lot of ’em they sent me,</span>
   <span id="f000025">with forty men and twenty rifles,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and sixty men carrying turquoises,</span>
   <span id="f000027">into the Ghorband country to buy those hand-made Martini rifles,</span>
   <span id="f000028">that come out of the Amir’s workshops at Kabul,</span>
   <span id="f000029">from one of the Amir’s Herati regiments that would have sold the very teeth out of their mouths for turquoises.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“I stayed in Ghorband a month,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and gave the Governor the pick of my baskets for hush-money,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and bribed the colonel of the regiment some more,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and,</span>
   <span id="f000034">between the two and the tribes-people,</span>
   <span id="f000035">we got more than a hundred hand-made Martinis,</span>
   <span id="f000036">a hundred good Kohat Jezails that’ll throw to six hundred yards,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and forty manloads of very bad ammunition for the rifles.</span>
   <span id="f000038">I came back with what I had,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and distributed ’em among the men that the Chiefs sent in to me to drill.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Dravot was too busy to attend to those things,</span>
   <span id="f000041">but the old Army that we first made helped me,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and we turned out five hundred men that could drill,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and two hundred that knew how to hold arms pretty straight.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Even those cork-screwed,</span>
   <span id="f000045">hand-made guns was a miracle to them.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Dravot talked big about powder-shops and factories,</span>
   <span id="f000047">walking up and down in the pine wood when the winter was coming on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“‘I won’t make a Nation,’ says he.</span>
   <span id="f000049">‘I’ll make an Empire!</span>
   <span id="f000050">These men aren’t niggers;</span>
   <span id="f000051">they’re English!</span>
   <span id="f000052">Look at their eyes— look at their mouths.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Look at the way they stand up.</span>
   <span id="f000054">They sit on chairs in their own houses.</span>
   <span id="f000055">They’re the Lost Tribes,</span>
   <span id="f000056">or something like it,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and they’ve grown to be English.</span>
   <span id="f000058">I’ll take a census in the spring if the priests don’t get frightened.</span>
   <span id="f000059">There must be a fair two million of ’em in these hills.</span>
   <span id="f000060">The villages are full o’ little children.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Two million people—two hundred and fifty thousand fighting men—and all English!</span>
   <span id="f000062">They only want the rifles and a little drilling.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Two hundred and fifty thousand men,</span>
   <span id="f000064">ready to cut in on Russia’s right flank when she tries for India!</span>
   <span id="f000065">Peachey,</span>
   <span id="f000066">man,’ he says,</span>
   <span id="f000067">chewing his beard in great hunks,</span>
   <span id="f000068">‘we shall be Emperors —Emperors of the Earth!</span>
   <span id="f000069">Rajah Brooke will be a suckling to us.</span>
   <span id="f000070">I’ll treat with the Viceroy on equal terms.</span>
   <span id="f000071">I’ll ask him to send me twelve picked English— twelve that I know of—to help us govern a bit.</span>
   <span id="f000072">There’s Mackray,</span>
   <span id="f000073">Sergeant-pensioner at Segowli—many’s the good dinner he’s given me,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and his wife a pair of trousers.</span>
   <span id="f000075">There’s Donkin,</span>
   <span id="f000076">the Warder of Tounghoo Jail;</span>
   <span id="f000077">there’s hundreds that I could lay my hand on if I was in India.</span>
   <span id="f000078">The Viceroy shall do it for me.</span>
   <span id="f000079">I’ll send a man through in the spring for those men,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and I’ll write for a dispensation from the Grand Lodge for what I’ve done as Grand-Master.</span>
   <span id="f000081">That—and all the Sniders that’ll be thrown out when the native troops in India take up the Martini.</span>
   <span id="f000082">They’ll be worn smooth,</span>
   <span id="f000083">but they’ll do for fighting in these hills.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Twelve English,</span>
   <span id="f000085">a hundred thousand Sniders run through the Amir’s country in driblets—I’d be content with twenty thousand in one year—and we’d be an Empire.</span>
   <span id="f000086">When everything was ship-shape,</span>
   <span id="f000087">I’d hand over the crown—this crown I’m wearing now—to Queen Victoria on my knees,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and she’d say:—“Rise up,</span>
   <span id="f000089">Sir Daniel Dravot.” Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000090">its big!</span>
   <span id="f000091">It’s big,</span>
   <span id="f000092">I tell you!</span>
   <span id="f000093">But there’s so much to be done in every place—Bashkai,</span>
   <span id="f000094">Khawak,</span>
   <span id="f000095">Shu,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and everywhere else.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“‘What is it?’ I says.</span>
   <span id="f000098">‘There are no more men coming in to be drilled this autumn.</span>
   <span id="f000099">Look at those fat,</span>
   <span id="f000100">black clouds.</span>
   <span id="f000101">They’re bringing the snow.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“‘It isn’t that,’ says Daniel,</span>
   <span id="f000103">putting his hand very hard on my shoulder;</span>
   <span id="f000104">‘and I don’t wish to say anything that’s against you,</span>
   <span id="f000105">for no other living man would have followed me and made me what I am as you have done.</span>
   <span id="f000106">You’re a first-class Commander-in-Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and the people know you;</span>
   <span id="f000108">but—it’s a big country,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and somehow you can’t help me,</span>
   <span id="f000110">Peachey,</span>
   <span id="f000111">in the way I want to be helped.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“‘Go to your blasted priests,</span>
   <span id="f000113">then!’ I said,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and I was sorry when I made that remark,</span>
   <span id="f000115">but it did hurt me sore to find Daniel talking so superior when I’d drilled all the men,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and done all he told me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“‘Don’t let’s quarrel,</span>
   <span id="f000118">Peachey,’ says Daniel without cursing.</span>
   <span id="f000119">‘You’re a King too,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and the half of this Kingdom is yours;</span>
   <span id="f000121">but can’t you see,</span>
   <span id="f000122">Peachey,</span>
   <span id="f000123">we want cleverer men than us now—three or four of ‘em that we can scatter about for our Deputies?</span>
   <span id="f000124">It’s a hugeous great State,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and I can’t always tell the right thing to do,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and I haven’t time for all I want to do,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and here’s the winter coming on and all.’ He put half his beard into his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and it was as red as the gold of his crown.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“‘I’m sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000130">Daniel,’ says I.</span>
   <span id="f000131">‘I’ve done all I could.</span>
   <span id="f000132">I’ve drilled the men and shown the people how to stack their oats better,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and I’ve brought in those tinware rifles from Ghorband—but I know what you’re driving at.</span>
   <span id="f000134">I take it Kings always feel oppressed that way.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“‘There’s another thing too,’ says Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000136">walking up and down.</span>
   <span id="f000137">‘The winter’s coming and these people won’t be giving much trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and if they do we can’t move about.</span>
   <span id="f000139">I want a wife.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“‘For Gord’s sake leave the women alone!’ I says.</span>
   <span id="f000141">‘We’ve both got all the work we can,</span>
   <span id="f000142">though I am a fool.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Remember the Contrack,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and keep clear o’ women.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">“‘The Contrack only lasted till such time as we was Kings;</span>
   <span id="f000146">and Kings we have been these months past,’ says Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000147">weighing his crown in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000148">‘You go get a wife too,</span>
   <span id="f000149">Peachey—a nice,</span>
   <span id="f000150">strappin’,</span>
   <span id="f000151">plump girl that’ll keep you warm in the winter.</span>
   <span id="f000152">They’re prettier than English girls,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and we can take the pick of ’em.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Boil ’em once or twice in hot water,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and they’ll come as fair as chicken and ham.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“‘Don’t tempt me!’ I says.</span>
   <span id="f000157">‘I will not have any dealings with a woman not till we are a dam’ side more settled than we are now.</span>
   <span id="f000158">I’ve been doing the work o’ two men,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and you’ve been doing the work o’ three.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Let’s lie off a bit,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and see if we can get some better tobacco from Afghan country and run in some good liquor;</span>
   <span id="f000162">but no women.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“‘Who’s talking o’ women?’ says Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000164">‘I said wife—a Queen to breed a King’s son for the King.</span>
   <span id="f000165">A Queen out of the strongest tribe,</span>
   <span id="f000166">that’ll make them your blood-brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and that’ll lie by your side and tell you all the people thinks about you and their own affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000168">That’s what I want.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“‘Do you remember that Bengali woman I kept at Mogul Serai when I was plate-layer?’ says I.</span>
   <span id="f000170">‘A fat lot o’ good she was to me.</span>
   <span id="f000171">She taught me the lingo and one or two other things;</span>
   <span id="f000172">but what happened?</span>
   <span id="f000173">She ran away with the Station Master’s servant and half my month’s pay.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Then she turned up at Dadur Junction in tow of a half-caste,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and had the impidence to say I was her husband —all among the drivers of the running-shed!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“‘We’ve done with that,’ says Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000177">‘These women are whiter than you or me,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and a Queen I will have for the winter months.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“‘For the last time o’ asking,</span>
   <span id="f000180">Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000181">do not,’ I says.</span>
   <span id="f000182">‘It’ll only bring us harm.</span>
   <span id="f000183">The Bible says that Kings ain’t to waste their strength on women,</span>
   <span id="f000184">’specially when they’ve got a new raw Kingdom to work over.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“‘For the last time of answering,</span>
   <span id="f000186">I will,’ said Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and he went away through the pine-trees looking like a big red devil.</span>
   <span id="f000188">The low sun hit his crown and beard on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and the two blazed like hot coals.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“But getting a wife was not as easy as Dan thought.</span>
   <span id="f000191">He put it before the Council,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and there was no answer till Billy Fish said that he’d better ask the girls.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Dravot damned them all round.</span>
   <span id="f000194">‘What’s wrong with me?’ he shouts,</span>
   <span id="f000195">standing by the idol Imbra.</span>
   <span id="f000196">‘Am I a dog or am I not enough of a man for your wenches?</span>
   <span id="f000197">Haven’t I put the shadow of my hand over this country?</span>
   <span id="f000198">Who stopped the last Afghan raid?’ It was me really,</span>
   <span id="f000199">but Dravot was too angry to remember.</span>
   <span id="f000200">‘Who bought your guns?</span>
   <span id="f000201">Who repaired the bridges?</span>
   <span id="f000202">Who’s the Grand-Master of the sign cut in the stone?’ and he thumped his hand on the block that he used to sit on in Lodge,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and at Council,</span>
   <span id="f000204">which opened like Lodge always.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Billy Fish said nothing and no more did the others.</span>
   <span id="f000206">‘Keep your hair on,</span>
   <span id="f000207">Dan,’ said I;</span>
   <span id="f000208">‘and ask the girls.</span>
   <span id="f000209">That’s how it’s done at home,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and these people are quite English.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“‘The marriage of a King is a matter of State,’ says Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000212">in a white-hot rage,</span>
   <span id="f000213">for he could feel,</span>
   <span id="f000214">I hope,</span>
   <span id="f000215">that he was going against his better mind.</span>
   <span id="f000216">He walked out of the Council-room,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and the others sat still,</span>
   <span id="f000218">looking at the ground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">“‘Billy Fish,’ says I to the Chief of Bashkai,</span>
   <span id="f000220">‘what’s the difficulty here?</span>
   <span id="f000221">A straight answer to a true friend.’ ‘You know,’ says Billy Fish.</span>
   <span id="f000222">‘How should a man tell you who know everything?</span>
   <span id="f000223">How can daughters of men marry gods or devils?</span>
   <span id="f000224">It’s not proper.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“I remembered something like that in the Bible;</span>
   <span id="f000226">but if,</span>
   <span id="f000227">after seeing us as long as they had,</span>
   <span id="f000228">they still believed we were gods it wasn’t for me to undeceive them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“‘A god can do anything,’ says I.</span>
   <span id="f000230">‘If the King is fond of a girl he’ll not let her die.’ ‘She’ll have to,’ said Billy Fish.</span>
   <span id="f000231">‘There are all sorts of gods and devils in these mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and now and again a girl marries one of them and isn’t seen any more.</span>
   <span id="f000233">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000234">you two know the Mark cut in the stone.</span>
   <span id="f000235">Only the gods know that.</span>
   <span id="f000236">We thought you were men till you showed the sign of the Master.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“‘I wished then that we had explained about the loss of the genuine secrets of a Master-Mason at the first go-off;</span>
   <span id="f000238">but I said nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000239">All that night there was a blowing of horns in a little dark temple half-way down the hill,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and I heard a girl crying fit to die.</span>
   <span id="f000241">One of the priests told us that she was being prepared to marry the King.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“‘I’ll have no nonsense of that kind,’ says Dan.</span>
   <span id="f000243">‘I don’t want to interfere with your customs,</span>
   <span id="f000244">but I’ll take my own wife.</span>
   <span id="f000245">‘The girl’s a little bit afraid,’ says the priest.</span>
   <span id="f000246">‘She thinks she’s going to die,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and they are a-heartening of her up down in the temple.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“‘Hearten her very tender,</span>
   <span id="f000249">then,’ says Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000250">‘or I’ll hearten you with the butt of a gun so that you’ll never want to be heartened again.’ He licked his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000251">did Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and stayed up walking about more than half the night,</span>
   <span id="f000253">thinking of the wife that he was going to get in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000254">I wasn’t any means comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000255">for I knew that dealings with a woman in foreign parts,</span>
   <span id="f000256">though you was a crowned King twenty times over,</span>
   <span id="f000257">could not but be risky.</span>
   <span id="f000258">I got up very early in the morning while Dravot was asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and I saw the priests talking together in whispers,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and the Chiefs talking together too,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and they looked at me out of the corners of their eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“‘What is up,</span>
   <span id="f000263">Fish?’ I says to the Bashkai man,</span>
   <span id="f000264">who was wrapped up in his furs and looking splendid to behold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“‘I can’t rightly say,’ says he;</span>
   <span id="f000266">‘but if you can induce the King to drop all this nonsense about marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000267">you’ll be doing him and me and yourself a great service.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“‘That I do believe,’ says I.</span>
   <span id="f000269">‘But sure,</span>
   <span id="f000270">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000271">Billy,</span>
   <span id="f000272">as well as me,</span>
   <span id="f000273">having fought against and for us,</span>
   <span id="f000274">that the King and me are nothing more than two of the finest men that God Almighty ever made.</span>
   <span id="f000275">Nothing more,</span>
   <span id="f000276">I do assure you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“‘That may be,’ says Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000278">‘and yet I should be sorry if it was.’ He sinks his head upon his great fur cloak for a minute and thinks.</span>
   <span id="f000279">‘King,’ says he,</span>
   <span id="f000280">‘be you man or god or devil,</span>
   <span id="f000281">I’ll stick by you to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000282">I have twenty of my men with me,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and they will follow me.</span>
   <span id="f000284">We’ll go to Bashkai until the storm blows over.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">“A little snow had fallen in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and everything was white except the greasy fat clouds that blew down and down from the north.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Dravot came out with his crown on his head,</span>
   <span id="f000288">swinging his arms and stamping his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and looking more pleased than Punch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“‘For the last time,</span>
   <span id="f000291">drop it,</span>
   <span id="f000292">Dan,’ says I in a whisper.</span>
   <span id="f000293">‘Billy Fish here says that there will be a row.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“‘A row among my people!’ says Dravot.</span>
   <span id="f000295">‘Not much.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Peachy,</span>
   <span id="f000297">you’re a fool not to get a wife too.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Where’s the girl?’ says he with a voice as loud as the braying of a jackass.</span>
   <span id="f000299">‘Call up all the Chiefs and priests,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and let the Emperor see if his wife suits him.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“There was no need to call any one.</span>
   <span id="f000302">They were all there leaning on their guns and spears round the clearing in the centre of the pine wood.</span>
   <span id="f000303">A deputation of priests went down to the little temple to bring up the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and the horns blew up fit to wake the dead.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Billy Fish saunters round and gets as close to Daniel as he could,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and behind him stood his twenty men with matchlocks.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Not a man of them under six feet.</span>
   <span id="f000308">I was next to Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and behind me was twenty men of the regular Army.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Up comes the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and a strapping wench she was,</span>
   <span id="f000312">covered with silver and turquoises but white as death,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and looking back every minute at the priests.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“‘She’ll do,’ said Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000315">looking her over.</span>
   <span id="f000316">‘What’s to be afraid of,</span>
   <span id="f000317">lass?</span>
   <span id="f000318">Come and kiss me.’ He puts his arm round her.</span>
   <span id="f000319">She shuts her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000320">gives a bit of a squeak,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and down goes her face in the side of Dan’s flaming red beard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“‘The slut’s bitten me!’ says he,</span>
   <span id="f000323">clapping his hand to his neck,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and,</span>
   <span id="f000325">sure enough,</span>
   <span id="f000326">his hand was red with blood.</span>
   <span id="f000327">Billy Fish and two of his matchlock-men catches hold of Dan by the shoulders and drags him into the Bashkai lot,</span>
   <span id="f000328">while the priests howls in their lingo,—‘Neither god nor devil but a man!’ I was all taken aback,</span>
   <span id="f000329">for a priest cut at me in front,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and the Army behind began firing into the Bashkai men.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“‘God A-mighty!’ says Dan.</span>
   <span id="f000332">‘What is the meaning o’ this?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“‘Come back!</span>
   <span id="f000334">Come away!’ says Billy Fish.</span>
   <span id="f000335">‘Ruin and Mutiny is the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000336">We’ll break for Bashkai if we can.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“I tried to give some sort of orders to my men—the men o’ the regular Army—but it was no use,</span>
   <span id="f000338">so I fired into the brown of ’em with an English Martini and drilled three beggars in a line.</span>
   <span id="f000339">The valley was full of shouting,</span>
   <span id="f000340">howling creatures,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and every soul was shrieking,</span>
   <span id="f000342">‘Not a god nor a devil but only a man!’ The Bashkai troops stuck to Billy Fish all they were worth,</span>
   <span id="f000343">but their matchlocks wasn’t half as good as the Kabul breech-loaders,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and four of them dropped.</span>
   <span id="f000345">Dan was bellowing like a bull,</span>
   <span id="f000346">for he was very wrathy;</span>
   <span id="f000347">and Billy Fish had a hard job to prevent him running out at the crowd.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“‘We can’t stand,’ says Billy Fish.</span>
   <span id="f000349">‘Make a run for it down the valley!</span>
   <span id="f000350">The whole place is against us.’ The matchlock-men ran,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and we went down the valley in spite of Dravot’s protestations.</span>
   <span id="f000352">He was swearing horribly and crying out that he was a King.</span>
   <span id="f000353">The priests rolled great stones on us,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and the regular Army fired hard,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and there wasn’t more than six men,</span>
   <span id="f000356">not counting Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000357">Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and Me,</span>
   <span id="f000359">that came down to the bottom of the valley alive.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“‘Then they stopped firing and the horns in the temple blew again.</span>
   <span id="f000361">‘Come away— for Gord’s sake come away!’ says Billy Fish.</span>
   <span id="f000362">‘They’ll send runners out to all the villages before ever we get to Bashkai.</span>
   <span id="f000363">I can protect you there,</span>
   <span id="f000364">but I can’t do anything now.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“My own notion is that Dan began to go mad in his head from that hour.</span>
   <span id="f000366">He stared up and down like a stuck pig.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Then he was all for walking back alone and killing the priests with his bare hands;</span>
   <span id="f000368">which he could have done.</span>
   <span id="f000369">‘An Emperor am I,’ says Daniel,</span>
   <span id="f000370">‘and next year I shall be a Knight of the Queen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“‘All right,</span>
   <span id="f000372">Dan,’ says I;</span>
   <span id="f000373">‘but come along now while there’s time.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“‘It’s your fault,’ says he,</span>
   <span id="f000375">‘for not looking after your Army better.</span>
   <span id="f000376">There was mutiny in the midst,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and you didn’t know —you damned engine-driving,</span>
   <span id="f000378">plate-laying,</span>
   <span id="f000379">missionary’s-pass-hunting hound!’ He sat upon a rock and called me every foul name he could lay tongue to.</span>
   <span id="f000380">I was too heart-sick to care,</span>
   <span id="f000381">though it was all his foolishness that brought the smash.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">“‘I’m sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000383">Dan,’ says I,</span>
   <span id="f000384">‘but there’s no accounting for natives.</span>
   <span id="f000385">This business is our Fifty-Seven.</span>
   <span id="f000386">Maybe we’ll make something out of it yet,</span>
   <span id="f000387">when we’ve got to Bashkai.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“‘Let’s get to Bashkai,</span>
   <span id="f000389">then,’ says Dan,</span>
   <span id="f000390">‘and,</span>
   <span id="f000391">by God,</span>
   <span id="f000392">when I come back here again I’ll sweep the valley so there isn’t a bug in a blanket left!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“‘We walked all that day,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and all that night Dan was stumping up and down on the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000395">chewing his beard and muttering to himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“‘There’s no hope o’ getting clear,’ said Billy Fish.</span>
   <span id="f000397">‘The priests will have sent runners to the villages to say that you are only men.</span>
   <span id="f000398">Why didn’t you stick on as gods till things was more settled?</span>
   <span id="f000399">I’m a dead man,’ says Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and he throws himself down on the snow and begins to pray to his gods.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“Next morning we was in a cruel bad country—all up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000402">no level ground at all,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and no food either.</span>
   <span id="f000404">The six Bashkai men looked at Billy Fish hungry-wise as if they wanted to ask something,</span>
   <span id="f000405">but they said never a word.</span>
   <span id="f000406">At noon we came to the top of a flat mountain all covered with snow,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and when we climbed up into it,</span>
   <span id="f000408">behold,</span>
   <span id="f000409">there was an army in position waiting in the middle!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“‘The runners have been very quick,’ says Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000411">with a little bit of a laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000412">‘They are waiting for us.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">“Three or four men began to fire from the enemy’s side,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and a chance shot took Daniel in the calf of the leg.</span>
   <span id="f000415">That brought him to his senses.</span>
   <span id="f000416">He looks across the snow at the Army,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and sees the rifles that we had brought into the country.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“‘We’re done for,’ says he.</span>
   <span id="f000419">‘They are Englishmen,</span>
   <span id="f000420">these people,—and it’s my blasted nonsense that has brought you to this.</span>
   <span id="f000421">Get back,</span>
   <span id="f000422">Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and take your men away;</span>
   <span id="f000424">you’ve done what you could,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and now cut for it.</span>
   <span id="f000426">Carnehan,’ says he,</span>
   <span id="f000427">‘shake hands with me and go along with Billy.</span>
   <span id="f000428">Maybe they won’t kill you.</span>
   <span id="f000429">I’ll go and meet ’em alone.</span>
   <span id="f000430">It’s me that did it.</span>
   <span id="f000431">Me,</span>
   <span id="f000432">the King!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“‘Go!’ says I.</span>
   <span id="f000434">‘Go to Hell,</span>
   <span id="f000435">Dan.</span>
   <span id="f000436">I’m with you here.</span>
   <span id="f000437">Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000438">you clear out,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and we two will meet those folk.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">“‘I’m a Chief,’ says Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000441">quite quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000442">‘I stay with you.</span>
   <span id="f000443">My men can go.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“The Bashkai fellows didn’t wait for a second word but ran off,</span>
   <span id="f000445">and Dan and Me and Billy Fish walked across to where the drums were drumming and the horns were horning.</span>
   <span id="f000446">It was cold-awful cold.</span>
   <span id="f000447">I’ve got that cold in the back of my head now.</span>
   <span id="f000448">There’s a lump of it there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">The punkah-coolies had gone to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Two kerosene lamps were blazing in the office,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and the perspiration poured down my face and splashed on the blotter as I leaned forward.</span>
   <span id="f000452">Carnehan was shivering,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and I feared that his mind might go.</span>
   <span id="f000454">I wiped my face,</span>
   <span id="f000455">took a fresh grip of the piteously mangled hands,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and said:—“What happened after that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">The momentary shift of my eyes had broken the clear current.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">“What was you pleased to say?” whined Carnehan.</span>
   <span id="f000459">“They took them without any sound.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Not a little whisper all along the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000461">not though the King knocked down the first man that set hand on him—not though old Peachey fired his last cartridge into the brown of ’em.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Not a single solitary sound did those swines make.</span>
   <span id="f000463">They just closed up,</span>
   <span id="f000464">tight,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and I tell you their furs stunk.</span>
   <span id="f000466">There was a man called Billy Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000467">a good friend of us all,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and they cut his throat,</span>
   <span id="f000469">Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000470">then and there,</span>
   <span id="f000471">like a pig;</span>
   <span id="f000472">and the King kicks up the bloody snow and says:—‘We’ve had a dashed fine run for our money.</span>
   <span id="f000473">What’s coming next?’ But Peachey,</span>
   <span id="f000474">Peachey Taliaferro,</span>
   <span id="f000475">I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000476">Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000477">in confidence as betwixt two friends,</span>
   <span id="f000478">he lost his head,</span>
   <span id="f000479">Sir.</span>
   <span id="f000480">No,</span>
   <span id="f000481">he didn’t neither.</span>
   <span id="f000482">The King lost his head,</span>
   <span id="f000483">so he did,</span>
   <span id="f000484">all along o’ one of those cunning rope-bridges.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Kindly let me have the paper-cutter,</span>
   <span id="f000486">Sir.</span>
   <span id="f000487">It tilted this way.</span>
   <span id="f000488">They marched him a mile across that snow to a rope-bridge over a ravine with a river at the bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000489">You may have seen such.</span>
   <span id="f000490">They prodded him behind like an ox.</span>
   <span id="f000491">‘Damn your eyes!’ says the King.</span>
   <span id="f000492">‘D’you suppose I can’t die like a gentleman?’ He turns to Peachey—Peachey that was crying like a child.</span>
   <span id="f000493">‘I’ve brought you to this,</span>
   <span id="f000494">Peachey,’ says he.</span>
   <span id="f000495">‘Brought you out of your happy life to be killed in Kafiristan,</span>
   <span id="f000496">where you was late Commander-in-Chief of the Emperor’s forces.</span>
   <span id="f000497">Say you forgive me,</span>
   <span id="f000498">Peachey.’ ‘I do,’ says Peachey.</span>
   <span id="f000499">‘Fully and freely do I forgive you,</span>
   <span id="f000500">Dan.’ ‘Shake hands,</span>
   <span id="f000501">Peachey,’ says he.</span>
   <span id="f000502">‘I’m going now.’ Out he goes,</span>
   <span id="f000503">looking neither right nor left,</span>
   <span id="f000504">and when he was plumb in the middle of those dizzy dancing ropes,</span>
   <span id="f000505">‘Cut,</span>
   <span id="f000506">you beggars,’ he shouts;</span>
   <span id="f000507">and they cut,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and old Dan fell,</span>
   <span id="f000509">turning round and round and round,</span>
   <span id="f000510">twenty thousand miles,</span>
   <span id="f000511">for he took half an hour to fall till he struck the water,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and I could see his body caught on a rock with the gold crown close beside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">“But do you know what they did to Peachey between two pine-trees?</span>
   <span id="f000514">They crucified him,</span>
   <span id="f000515">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000516">as Peachey’s hands will show.</span>
   <span id="f000517">They used wooden pegs for his hands and his feet;</span>
   <span id="f000518">and he didn’t die.</span>
   <span id="f000519">He hung there and screamed,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and they took him down next day,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and said it was a miracle that he wasn’t dead.</span>
   <span id="f000522">They took him down —poor old Peachey that hadn’t done them any harm—that hadn’t done them any…</span>
   <span id="f000523">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">He rocked to and fro and wept bitterly,</span>
   <span id="f000525">wiping his eyes with the back of his scarred hands and moaning like a child for some ten minutes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“They was cruel enough to feed him up in the temple,</span>
   <span id="f000527">because they said he was more of a god than old Daniel that was a man.</span>
   <span id="f000528">Then they turned him out on the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000529">and told him to go home,</span>
   <span id="f000530">and Peachey came home in about a year,</span>
   <span id="f000531">begging along the roads quite safe;</span>
   <span id="f000532">for Daniel Dravot he walked before and said:—‘Come along,</span>
   <span id="f000533">Peachey.</span>
   <span id="f000534">It’s a big thing we’re doing.’ The mountains they danced at night,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and the mountains they tried to fall on Peachey’s head,</span>
   <span id="f000536">but Dan he held up his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and Peachey came along bent double.</span>
   <span id="f000538">He never let go of Dan’s hand,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and he never let go of Dan’s head.</span>
   <span id="f000540">They gave it to him as a present in the temple,</span>
   <span id="f000541">to remind him not to come again,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and though the crown was pure gold,</span>
   <span id="f000543">and Peachey was starving,</span>
   <span id="f000544">never would Peachey sell the same.</span>
   <span id="f000545">You knew Dravot,</span>
   <span id="f000546">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000547">You knew Right Worshipful Brother Dravot!</span>
   <span id="f000548">Look at him now!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">He fumbled in the mass of rags round his bent waist;</span>
   <span id="f000550">brought out a black horsehair bag embroidered with silver thread;</span>
   <span id="f000551">and shook therefrom on to my table—the dried,</span>
   <span id="f000552">withered head of Daniel Dravot!</span>
   <span id="f000553">The morning sun that had long been paling the lamps struck the red beard and blind sunken eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000554">struck,</span>
   <span id="f000555">too,</span>
   <span id="f000556">a heavy circlet of gold studded with raw turquoises,</span>
   <span id="f000557">that Carnehan placed tenderly on the battered temples.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">“You behold now,” said Carnehan,</span>
   <span id="f000559">“the Emperor in his habit as he lived—the King of Kafiristan with his crown upon his head.</span>
   <span id="f000560">Poor old Daniel that was a monarch once!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">I shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000562">for,</span>
   <span id="f000563">in spite of defacements manifold,</span>
   <span id="f000564">I recognized the head of the man of Marwar Junction.</span>
   <span id="f000565">Carnehan rose to go.</span>
   <span id="f000566">I attempted to stop him.</span>
   <span id="f000567">He was not fit to walk abroad.</span>
   <span id="f000568">“Let me take away the whiskey,</span>
   <span id="f000569">and give me a little money,” he gasped.</span>
   <span id="f000570">“I was a King once.</span>
   <span id="f000571">I’ll go to the Deputy Commissioner and ask to set in the Poor-house till I get my health.</span>
   <span id="f000572">No,</span>
   <span id="f000573">thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000574">I can’t wait till you get a carriage for me.</span>
   <span id="f000575">I’ve urgent private affairs—in the south—at Marwar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">He shambled out of the office and departed in the direction of the Deputy Commissioner’s house.</span>
   <span id="f000577">That day at noon I had occasion to go down the blinding hot Mall,</span>
   <span id="f000578">and I saw a crooked man crawling along the white dust of the roadside,</span>
   <span id="f000579">his hat in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000580">quavering dolorously after the fashion of street-singers at Home.</span>
   <span id="f000581">There was not a soul in sight,</span>
   <span id="f000582">and he was out of all possible earshot of the houses.</span>
   <span id="f000583">And he sang through his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000584">turning his head from right to left:—</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000585">“The Son of Man goes forth to war,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000586">A golden crown to gain;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000587">His blood-red banner streams afar—<br /></span>
   <span id="f000588">Who follows in his train?”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000589">I waited to hear no more,</span>
   <span id="f000590">but put the poor wretch into my carriage and drove him off to the nearest missionary for eventual transfer to the Asylum.</span>
   <span id="f000591">He repeated the hymn twice while he was with me whom he did not in the least recognize,</span>
   <span id="f000592">and I left him singing to the missionary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">Two days later I inquired after his welfare of the Superintendent of the Asylum.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">“He was admitted suffering from sun-stroke.</span>
   <span id="f000595">He died early yesterday morning,” said the Superintendent.</span>
   <span id="f000596">“Is it true that he was half an hour bareheaded in the sun at midday?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">“Yes,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000598">“but do you happen to know if he had anything upon him by any chance when he died?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">“Not to my knowledge,” said the Superintendent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">And there the matter rests.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

