<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part I</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">FOUND AMONG THE PAPERS OF THE LATE DIEDRICH KNICKERBOCKER</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000003">A pleasing land of drowsy head it was,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000004">Of dreams that wave before the half-shut eye;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000005">And of gay castles in the clouds that pass,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006">Forever flushing round a summer sky.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000007">CASTLE OF INDOLENCE</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000008">In the bosom of one of those spacious coves which indent the eastern shore of the Hudson,</span>
   <span id="f000009">at that broad expansion of the river denominated by the ancient Dutch navigators the Tappan Zee,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and where they always prudently shortened sail and implored the protection of St.&#160;Nicholas when they crossed,</span>
   <span id="f000011">there lies a small market town or rural port,</span>
   <span id="f000012">which by some is called Greensburgh,</span>
   <span id="f000013">but which is more generally and properly known by the name of Tarry Town.</span>
   <span id="f000014">This name was given,</span>
   <span id="f000015">we are told,</span>
   <span id="f000016">in former days,</span>
   <span id="f000017">by the good housewives of the adjacent country,</span>
   <span id="f000018">from the inveterate propensity of their husbands to linger about the village tavern on market days.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Be that as it may,</span>
   <span id="f000020">I do not vouch for the fact,</span>
   <span id="f000021">but merely advert to it,</span>
   <span id="f000022">for the sake of being precise and authentic.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Not far from this village,</span>
   <span id="f000024">perhaps about two miles,</span>
   <span id="f000025">there is a little valley or rather lap of land among high hills,</span>
   <span id="f000026">which is one of the quietest places in the whole world.</span>
   <span id="f000027">A small brook glides through it,</span>
   <span id="f000028">with just murmur enough to lull one to repose;</span>
   <span id="f000029">and the occasional whistle of a quail or tapping of a woodpecker is almost the only sound that ever breaks in upon the uniform tranquillity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">I recollect that,</span>
   <span id="f000031">when a stripling,</span>
   <span id="f000032">my first exploit in squirrel-shooting was in a grove of tall walnut-trees that shades one side of the valley.</span>
   <span id="f000033">I had wandered into it at noontime,</span>
   <span id="f000034">when all nature is peculiarly quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and was startled by the roar of my own gun,</span>
   <span id="f000036">as it broke the Sabbath stillness around and was prolonged and reverberated by the angry echoes.</span>
   <span id="f000037">If ever I should wish for a retreat whither I might steal from the world and its distractions,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and dream quietly away the remnant of a troubled life,</span>
   <span id="f000039">I know of none more promising than this little valley.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">From the listless repose of the place,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and the peculiar character of its inhabitants,</span>
   <span id="f000042">who are descendants from the original Dutch settlers,</span>
   <span id="f000043">this sequestered glen has long been known by the name of SLEEPY HOLLOW,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and its rustic lads are called the Sleepy Hollow Boys throughout all the neighboring country.</span>
   <span id="f000045">A drowsy,</span>
   <span id="f000046">dreamy influence seems to hang over the land,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and to pervade the very atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Some say that the place was bewitched by a High German doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000049">during the early days of the settlement;</span>
   <span id="f000050">others,</span>
   <span id="f000051">that an old Indian chief,</span>
   <span id="f000052">the prophet or wizard of his tribe,</span>
   <span id="f000053">held his powwows there before the country was discovered by Master Hendrick Hudson.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Certain it is,</span>
   <span id="f000055">the place still continues under the sway of some witching power,</span>
   <span id="f000056">that holds a spell over the minds of the good people,</span>
   <span id="f000057">causing them to walk in a continual reverie.</span>
   <span id="f000058">They are given to all kinds of marvellous beliefs,</span>
   <span id="f000059">are subject to trances and visions,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and frequently see strange sights,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and hear music and voices in the air.</span>
   <span id="f000062">The whole neighborhood abounds with local tales,</span>
   <span id="f000063">haunted spots,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and twilight superstitions;</span>
   <span id="f000065">stars shoot and meteors glare oftener across the valley than in any other part of the country,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and the nightmare,</span>
   <span id="f000067">with her whole ninefold,</span>
   <span id="f000068">seems to make it the favorite scene of her gambols.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">The dominant spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000070">however,</span>
   <span id="f000071">that haunts this enchanted region,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and seems to be commander-in-chief of all the powers of the air,</span>
   <span id="f000073">is the apparition of a figure on horseback,</span>
   <span id="f000074">without a head.</span>
   <span id="f000075">It is said by some to be the ghost of a Hessian trooper,</span>
   <span id="f000076">whose head had been carried away by a cannon-ball,</span>
   <span id="f000077">in some nameless battle during the Revolutionary War,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and who is ever and anon seen by the country folk hurrying along in the gloom of night,</span>
   <span id="f000079">as if on the wings of the wind.</span>
   <span id="f000080">His haunts are not confined to the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000081">but extend at times to the adjacent roads,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and especially to the vicinity of a church at no great distance.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000084">certain of the most authentic historians of those parts,</span>
   <span id="f000085">who have been careful in collecting and collating the floating facts concerning this spectre,</span>
   <span id="f000086">allege that the body of the trooper having been buried in the churchyard,</span>
   <span id="f000087">the ghost rides forth to the scene of battle in nightly quest of his head,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and that the rushing speed with which he sometimes passes along the Hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000089">like a midnight blast,</span>
   <span id="f000090">is owing to his being belated,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and in a hurry to get back to the churchyard before daybreak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">Such is the general purport of this legendary superstition,</span>
   <span id="f000093">which has furnished materials for many a wild story in that region of shadows;</span>
   <span id="f000094">and the spectre is known at all the country firesides,</span>
   <span id="f000095">by the name of the Headless Horseman of Sleepy Hollow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">It is remarkable that the visionary propensity I have mentioned is not confined to the native inhabitants of the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but is unconsciously imbibed by every one who resides there for a time.</span>
   <span id="f000098">However wide awake they may have been before they entered that sleepy region,</span>
   <span id="f000099">they are sure,</span>
   <span id="f000100">in a little time,</span>
   <span id="f000101">to inhale the witching influence of the air,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and begin to grow imaginative,</span>
   <span id="f000103">to dream dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and see apparitions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">I mention this peaceful spot with all possible laud,</span>
   <span id="f000106">for it is in such little retired Dutch valleys,</span>
   <span id="f000107">found here and there embosomed in the great State of New York,</span>
   <span id="f000108">that population,</span>
   <span id="f000109">manners,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and customs remain fixed,</span>
   <span id="f000111">while the great torrent of migration and improvement,</span>
   <span id="f000112">which is making such incessant changes in other parts of this restless country,</span>
   <span id="f000113">sweeps by them unobserved.</span>
   <span id="f000114">They are like those little nooks of still water,</span>
   <span id="f000115">which border a rapid stream,</span>
   <span id="f000116">where we may see the straw and bubble riding quietly at anchor,</span>
   <span id="f000117">or slowly revolving in their mimic harbor,</span>
   <span id="f000118">undisturbed by the rush of the passing current.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Though many years have elapsed since I trod the drowsy shades of Sleepy Hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000120">yet I question whether I should not still find the same trees and the same families vegetating in its sheltered bosom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">In this by-place of nature there abode,</span>
   <span id="f000122">in a remote period of American history,</span>
   <span id="f000123">that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000124">some thirty years since,</span>
   <span id="f000125">a worthy wight of the name of Ichabod Crane,</span>
   <span id="f000126">who sojourned,</span>
   <span id="f000127">or,</span>
   <span id="f000128">as he expressed it,</span>
   <span id="f000129">“tarried,” in Sleepy Hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000130">for the purpose of instructing the children of the vicinity.</span>
   <span id="f000131">He was a native of Connecticut,</span>
   <span id="f000132">a State which supplies the Union with pioneers for the mind as well as for the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and sends forth yearly its legions of frontier woodmen and country schoolmasters.</span>
   <span id="f000134">The cognomen of Crane was not inapplicable to his person.</span>
   <span id="f000135">He was tall,</span>
   <span id="f000136">but exceedingly lank,</span>
   <span id="f000137">with narrow shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000138">long arms and legs,</span>
   <span id="f000139">hands that dangled a mile out of his sleeves,</span>
   <span id="f000140">feet that might have served for shovels,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and his whole frame most loosely hung together.</span>
   <span id="f000142">His head was small,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and flat at top,</span>
   <span id="f000144">with huge ears,</span>
   <span id="f000145">large green glassy eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and a long snipe nose,</span>
   <span id="f000147">so that it looked like a weather-cock perched upon his spindle neck to tell which way the wind blew.</span>
   <span id="f000148">To see him striding along the profile of a hill on a windy day,</span>
   <span id="f000149">with his clothes bagging and fluttering about him,</span>
   <span id="f000150">one might have mistaken him for the genius of famine descending upon the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000151">or some scarecrow eloped from a cornfield.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">His schoolhouse was a low building of one large room,</span>
   <span id="f000153">rudely constructed of logs;</span>
   <span id="f000154">the windows partly glazed,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and partly patched with leaves of old copybooks.</span>
   <span id="f000156">It was most ingeniously secured at vacant hours,</span>
   <span id="f000157">by a withe twisted in the handle of the door,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and stakes set against the window shutters;</span>
   <span id="f000159">so that though a thief might get in with perfect ease,</span>
   <span id="f000160">he would find some embarrassment in getting out,</span>
   <span id="f000161">– an idea most probably borrowed by the architect,</span>
   <span id="f000162">Yost Van Houten,</span>
   <span id="f000163">from the mystery of an eelpot.</span>
   <span id="f000164">The schoolhouse stood in a rather lonely but pleasant situation,</span>
   <span id="f000165">just at the foot of a woody hill,</span>
   <span id="f000166">with a brook running close by,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and a formidable birch-tree growing at one end of it.</span>
   <span id="f000168">From hence the low murmur of his pupils’ voices,</span>
   <span id="f000169">conning over their lessons,</span>
   <span id="f000170">might be heard in a drowsy summer’s day,</span>
   <span id="f000171">like the hum of a beehive;</span>
   <span id="f000172">interrupted now and then by the authoritative voice of the master,</span>
   <span id="f000173">in the tone of menace or command,</span>
   <span id="f000174">or,</span>
   <span id="f000175">peradventure,</span>
   <span id="f000176">by the appalling sound of the birch,</span>
   <span id="f000177">as he urged some tardy loiterer along the flowery path of knowledge.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Truth to say,</span>
   <span id="f000179">he was a conscientious man,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and ever bore in mind the golden maxim,</span>
   <span id="f000181">“Spare the rod and spoil the child.” Ichabod Crane’s scholars certainly were not spoiled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">I would not have it imagined,</span>
   <span id="f000183">however,</span>
   <span id="f000184">that he was one of those cruel potentates of the school who joy in the smart of their subjects;</span>
   <span id="f000185">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000186">he administered justice with discrimination rather than severity;</span>
   <span id="f000187">taking the burden off the backs of the weak,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and laying it on those of the strong.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Your mere puny stripling,</span>
   <span id="f000190">that winced at the least flourish of the rod,</span>
   <span id="f000191">was passed by with indulgence;</span>
   <span id="f000192">but the claims of justice were satisfied by inflicting a double portion on some little tough wrong-headed,</span>
   <span id="f000193">broad-skirted Dutch urchin,</span>
   <span id="f000194">who sulked and swelled and grew dogged and sullen beneath the birch.</span>
   <span id="f000195">All this he called “doing his duty by their parents;” and he never inflicted a chastisement without following it by the assurance,</span>
   <span id="f000196">so consolatory to the smarting urchin,</span>
   <span id="f000197">that “he would remember it and thank him for it the longest day he had to live.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">When school hours were over,</span>
   <span id="f000199">he was even the companion and playmate of the larger boys;</span>
   <span id="f000200">and on holiday afternoons would convoy some of the smaller ones home,</span>
   <span id="f000201">who happened to have pretty sisters,</span>
   <span id="f000202">or good housewives for mothers,</span>
   <span id="f000203">noted for the comforts of the cupboard.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000205">it behooved him to keep on good terms with his pupils.</span>
   <span id="f000206">The revenue arising from his school was small,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and would have been scarcely sufficient to furnish him with daily bread,</span>
   <span id="f000208">for he was a huge feeder,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and,</span>
   <span id="f000210">though lank,</span>
   <span id="f000211">had the dilating powers of an anaconda;</span>
   <span id="f000212">but to help out his maintenance,</span>
   <span id="f000213">he was,</span>
   <span id="f000214">according to country custom in those parts,</span>
   <span id="f000215">boarded and lodged at the houses of the farmers whose children he instructed.</span>
   <span id="f000216">With these he lived successively a week at a time,</span>
   <span id="f000217">thus going the rounds of the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000218">with all his worldly effects tied up in a cotton handkerchief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">That all this might not be too onerous on the purses of his rustic patrons,</span>
   <span id="f000220">who are apt to consider the costs of schooling a grievous burden,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and schoolmasters as mere drones,</span>
   <span id="f000222">he had various ways of rendering himself both useful and agreeable.</span>
   <span id="f000223">He assisted the farmers occasionally in the lighter labors of their farms,</span>
   <span id="f000224">helped to make hay,</span>
   <span id="f000225">mended the fences,</span>
   <span id="f000226">took the horses to water,</span>
   <span id="f000227">drove the cows from pasture,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and cut wood for the winter fire.</span>
   <span id="f000229">He laid aside,</span>
   <span id="f000230">too,</span>
   <span id="f000231">all the dominant dignity and absolute sway with which he lorded it in his little empire,</span>
   <span id="f000232">the school,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and became wonderfully gentle and ingratiating.</span>
   <span id="f000234">He found favor in the eyes of the mothers by petting the children,</span>
   <span id="f000235">particularly the youngest;</span>
   <span id="f000236">and like the lion bold,</span>
   <span id="f000237">which whilom so magnanimously the lamb did hold,</span>
   <span id="f000238">he would sit with a child on one knee,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and rock a cradle with his foot for whole hours together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">In addition to his other vocations,</span>
   <span id="f000241">he was the singing-master of the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and picked up many bright shillings by instructing the young folks in psalmody.</span>
   <span id="f000243">It was a matter of no little vanity to him on Sundays,</span>
   <span id="f000244">to take his station in front of the church gallery,</span>
   <span id="f000245">with a band of chosen singers;</span>
   <span id="f000246">where,</span>
   <span id="f000247">in his own mind,</span>
   <span id="f000248">he completely carried away the palm from the parson.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Certain it is,</span>
   <span id="f000250">his voice resounded far above all the rest of the congregation;</span>
   <span id="f000251">and there are peculiar quavers still to be heard in that church,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and which may even be heard half a mile off,</span>
   <span id="f000253">quite to the opposite side of the millpond,</span>
   <span id="f000254">on a still Sunday morning,</span>
   <span id="f000255">which are said to be legitimately descended from the nose of Ichabod Crane.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Thus,</span>
   <span id="f000257">by divers little makeshifts,</span>
   <span id="f000258">in that ingenious way which is commonly denominated “by hook and by crook,” the worthy pedagogue got on tolerably enough,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and was thought,</span>
   <span id="f000260">by all who understood nothing of the labor of headwork,</span>
   <span id="f000261">to have a wonderfully easy life of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">The schoolmaster is generally a man of some importance in the female circle of a rural neighborhood;</span>
   <span id="f000263">being considered a kind of idle,</span>
   <span id="f000264">gentlemanlike personage,</span>
   <span id="f000265">of vastly superior taste and accomplishments to the rough country swains,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and,</span>
   <span id="f000267">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000268">inferior in learning only to the parson.</span>
   <span id="f000269">His appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000270">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000271">is apt to occasion some little stir at the tea-table of a farmhouse,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and the addition of a supernumerary dish of cakes or sweetmeats,</span>
   <span id="f000273">or,</span>
   <span id="f000274">peradventure,</span>
   <span id="f000275">the parade of a silver teapot.</span>
   <span id="f000276">Our man of letters,</span>
   <span id="f000277">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000278">was peculiarly happy in the smiles of all the country damsels.</span>
   <span id="f000279">How he would figure among them in the churchyard,</span>
   <span id="f000280">between services on Sundays;</span>
   <span id="f000281">gathering grapes for them from the wild vines that overran the surrounding trees;</span>
   <span id="f000282">reciting for their amusement all the epitaphs on the tombstones;</span>
   <span id="f000283">or sauntering,</span>
   <span id="f000284">with a whole bevy of them,</span>
   <span id="f000285">along the banks of the adjacent millpond;</span>
   <span id="f000286">while the more bashful country bumpkins hung sheepishly back,</span>
   <span id="f000287">envying his superior elegance and address.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">From his half-itinerant life,</span>
   <span id="f000289">also,</span>
   <span id="f000290">he was a kind of travelling gazette,</span>
   <span id="f000291">carrying the whole budget of local gossip from house to house,</span>
   <span id="f000292">so that his appearance was always greeted with satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000293">He was,</span>
   <span id="f000294">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000295">esteemed by the women as a man of great erudition,</span>
   <span id="f000296">for he had read several books quite through,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and was a perfect master of Cotton Mather’s “History of New England Witchcraft,” in which,</span>
   <span id="f000298">by the way,</span>
   <span id="f000299">he most firmly and potently believed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">He was,</span>
   <span id="f000301">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000302">an odd mixture of small shrewdness and simple credulity.</span>
   <span id="f000303">His appetite for the marvellous,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and his powers of digesting it,</span>
   <span id="f000305">were equally extraordinary;</span>
   <span id="f000306">and both had been increased by his residence in this spell-bound region.</span>
   <span id="f000307">No tale was too gross or monstrous for his capacious swallow.</span>
   <span id="f000308">It was often his delight,</span>
   <span id="f000309">after his school was dismissed in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000310">to stretch himself on the rich bed of clover bordering the little brook that whimpered by his schoolhouse,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and there con over old Mather’s direful tales,</span>
   <span id="f000312">until the gathering dusk of evening made the printed page a mere mist before his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000314">as he wended his way by swamp and stream and awful woodland,</span>
   <span id="f000315">to the farmhouse where he happened to be quartered,</span>
   <span id="f000316">every sound of nature,</span>
   <span id="f000317">at that witching hour,</span>
   <span id="f000318">fluttered his excited imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000319">– the moan of the whip-poor-will from the hillside,</span>
   <span id="f000320">the boding cry of the tree toad,</span>
   <span id="f000321">that harbinger of storm,</span>
   <span id="f000322">the dreary hooting of the screech owl,</span>
   <span id="f000323">or the sudden rustling in the thicket of birds frightened from their roost.</span>
   <span id="f000324">The fireflies,</span>
   <span id="f000325">too,</span>
   <span id="f000326">which sparkled most vividly in the darkest places,</span>
   <span id="f000327">now and then startled him,</span>
   <span id="f000328">as one of uncommon brightness would stream across his path;</span>
   <span id="f000329">and if,</span>
   <span id="f000330">by chance,</span>
   <span id="f000331">a huge blockhead of a beetle came winging his blundering flight against him,</span>
   <span id="f000332">the poor varlet was ready to give up the ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000333">with the idea that he was struck with a witch’s token.</span>
   <span id="f000334">His only resource on such occasions,</span>
   <span id="f000335">either to drown thought or drive away evil spirits,</span>
   <span id="f000336">was to sing psalm tunes and the good people of Sleepy Hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000337">as they sat by their doors of an evening,</span>
   <span id="f000338">were often filled with awe at hearing his nasal melody,</span>
   <span id="f000339">“in linked sweetness long drawn out,” floating from the distant hill,</span>
   <span id="f000340">or along the dusky road.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">Another of his sources of fearful pleasure was to pass long winter evenings with the old Dutch wives,</span>
   <span id="f000342">as they sat spinning by the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000343">with a row of apples roasting and spluttering along the hearth,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and listen to their marvellous tales of ghosts and goblins,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and haunted fields,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and haunted brooks,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and haunted bridges,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and haunted houses,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and particularly of the headless horseman,</span>
   <span id="f000350">or Galloping Hessian of the Hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000351">as they sometimes called him.</span>
   <span id="f000352">He would delight them equally by his anecdotes of witchcraft,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and of the direful omens and portentous sights and sounds in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000354">which prevailed in the earlier times of Connecticut;</span>
   <span id="f000355">and would frighten them woefully with speculations upon comets and shooting stars;</span>
   <span id="f000356">and with the alarming fact that the world did absolutely turn round,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and that they were half the time topsy-turvy!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">But if there was a pleasure in all this,</span>
   <span id="f000359">while snugly cuddling in the chimney corner of a chamber that was all of a ruddy glow from the crackling wood fire,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and where,</span>
   <span id="f000361">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000362">no spectre dared to show its face,</span>
   <span id="f000363">it was dearly purchased by the terrors of his subsequent walk homewards.</span>
   <span id="f000364">What fearful shapes and shadows beset his path,</span>
   <span id="f000365">amidst the dim and ghastly glare of a snowy night!</span>
   <span id="f000366">With what wistful look did he eye every trembling ray of light streaming across the waste fields from some distant window!</span>
   <span id="f000367">How often was he appalled by some shrub covered with snow,</span>
   <span id="f000368">which,</span>
   <span id="f000369">like a sheeted spectre,</span>
   <span id="f000370">beset his very path!</span>
   <span id="f000371">How often did he shrink with curdling awe at the sound of his own steps on the frosty crust beneath his feet;</span>
   <span id="f000372">and dread to look over his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000373">lest he should behold some uncouth being tramping close behind him!</span>
   <span id="f000374">And how often was he thrown into complete dismay by some rushing blast,</span>
   <span id="f000375">howling among the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000376">in the idea that it was the Galloping Hessian on one of his nightly scourings!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">All these,</span>
   <span id="f000378">however,</span>
   <span id="f000379">were mere terrors of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000380">phantoms of the mind that walk in darkness;</span>
   <span id="f000381">and though he had seen many spectres in his time,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and been more than once beset by Satan in divers shapes,</span>
   <span id="f000383">in his lonely perambulations,</span>
   <span id="f000384">yet daylight put an end to all these evils;</span>
   <span id="f000385">and he would have passed a pleasant life of it,</span>
   <span id="f000386">in despite of the Devil and all his works,</span>
   <span id="f000387">if his path had not been crossed by a being that causes more perplexity to mortal man than ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000388">goblins,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and the whole race of witches put together,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and that was – a woman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">Among the musical disciples who assembled,</span>
   <span id="f000392">one evening in each week,</span>
   <span id="f000393">to receive his instructions in psalmody,</span>
   <span id="f000394">was Katrina Van Tassel,</span>
   <span id="f000395">the daughter and only child of a substantial Dutch farmer.</span>
   <span id="f000396">She was a blooming lass of fresh eighteen;</span>
   <span id="f000397">plump as a partridge;</span>
   <span id="f000398">ripe and melting and rosy-cheeked as one of her father’s peaches,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and universally famed,</span>
   <span id="f000400">not merely for her beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000401">but her vast expectations.</span>
   <span id="f000402">She was withal a little of a coquette,</span>
   <span id="f000403">as might be perceived even in her dress,</span>
   <span id="f000404">which was a mixture of ancient and modern fashions,</span>
   <span id="f000405">as most suited to set off her charms.</span>
   <span id="f000406">She wore the ornaments of pure yellow gold,</span>
   <span id="f000407">which her great-great-grandmother had brought over from Saardam;</span>
   <span id="f000408">the tempting stomacher of the olden time,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and withal a provokingly short petticoat,</span>
   <span id="f000410">to display the prettiest foot and ankle in the country round.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">Ichabod Crane had a soft and foolish heart towards the sex;</span>
   <span id="f000412">and it is not to be wondered at that so tempting a morsel soon found favor in his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000413">more especially after he had visited her in her paternal mansion.</span>
   <span id="f000414">Old Baltus Van Tassel was a perfect picture of a thriving,</span>
   <span id="f000415">contented,</span>
   <span id="f000416">liberal-hearted farmer.</span>
   <span id="f000417">He seldom,</span>
   <span id="f000418">it is true,</span>
   <span id="f000419">sent either his eyes or his thoughts beyond the boundaries of his own farm;</span>
   <span id="f000420">but within those everything was snug,</span>
   <span id="f000421">happy and well-conditioned.</span>
   <span id="f000422">He was satisfied with his wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000423">but not proud of it;</span>
   <span id="f000424">and piqued himself upon the hearty abundance,</span>
   <span id="f000425">rather than the style in which he lived.</span>
   <span id="f000426">His stronghold was situated on the banks of the Hudson,</span>
   <span id="f000427">in one of those green,</span>
   <span id="f000428">sheltered,</span>
   <span id="f000429">fertile nooks in which the Dutch farmers are so fond of nestling.</span>
   <span id="f000430">A great elm tree spread its broad branches over it,</span>
   <span id="f000431">at the foot of which bubbled up a spring of the softest and sweetest water,</span>
   <span id="f000432">in a little well formed of a barrel;</span>
   <span id="f000433">and then stole sparkling away through the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000434">to a neighboring brook,</span>
   <span id="f000435">that babbled along among alders and dwarf willows.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Hard by the farmhouse was a vast barn,</span>
   <span id="f000437">that might have served for a church;</span>
   <span id="f000438">every window and crevice of which seemed bursting forth with the treasures of the farm;</span>
   <span id="f000439">the flail was busily resounding within it from morning to night;</span>
   <span id="f000440">swallows and martins skimmed twittering about the eaves;</span>
   <span id="f000441">and rows of pigeons,</span>
   <span id="f000442">some with one eye turned up,</span>
   <span id="f000443">as if watching the weather,</span>
   <span id="f000444">some with their heads under their wings or buried in their bosoms,</span>
   <span id="f000445">and others swelling,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and cooing,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and bowing about their dames,</span>
   <span id="f000448">were enjoying the sunshine on the roof.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Sleek unwieldy porkers were grunting in the repose and abundance of their pens,</span>
   <span id="f000450">from whence sallied forth,</span>
   <span id="f000451">now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000452">troops of sucking pigs,</span>
   <span id="f000453">as if to snuff the air.</span>
   <span id="f000454">A stately squadron of snowy geese were riding in an adjoining pond,</span>
   <span id="f000455">convoying whole fleets of ducks;</span>
   <span id="f000456">regiments of turkeys were gobbling through the farmyard,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and Guinea fowls fretting about it,</span>
   <span id="f000458">like ill-tempered housewives,</span>
   <span id="f000459">with their peevish,</span>
   <span id="f000460">discontented cry.</span>
   <span id="f000461">Before the barn door strutted the gallant cock,</span>
   <span id="f000462">that pattern of a husband,</span>
   <span id="f000463">a warrior and a fine gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000464">clapping his burnished wings and crowing in the pride and gladness of his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000465">– sometimes tearing up the earth with his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and then generously calling his ever-hungry family of wives and children to enjoy the rich morsel which he had discovered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">The pedagogue’s mouth watered as he looked upon this sumptuous promise of luxurious winter fare.</span>
   <span id="f000468">In his devouring mind’s eye,</span>
   <span id="f000469">he pictured to himself every roasting-pig running about with a pudding in his belly,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and an apple in his mouth;</span>
   <span id="f000471">the pigeons were snugly put to bed in a comfortable pie,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and tucked in with a coverlet of crust;</span>
   <span id="f000473">the geese were swimming in their own gravy;</span>
   <span id="f000474">and the ducks pairing cosily in dishes,</span>
   <span id="f000475">like snug married couples,</span>
   <span id="f000476">with a decent competency of onion sauce.</span>
   <span id="f000477">In the porkers he saw carved out the future sleek side of bacon,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and juicy relishing ham;</span>
   <span id="f000479">not a turkey but he beheld daintily trussed up,</span>
   <span id="f000480">with its gizzard under its wing,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and,</span>
   <span id="f000482">peradventure,</span>
   <span id="f000483">a necklace of savory sausages;</span>
   <span id="f000484">and even bright chanticleer himself lay sprawling on his back,</span>
   <span id="f000485">in a side dish,</span>
   <span id="f000486">with uplifted claws,</span>
   <span id="f000487">as if craving that quarter which his chivalrous spirit disdained to ask while living.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

