<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">As the enraptured Ichabod fancied all this,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and as he rolled his great green eyes over the fat meadow lands,</span>
   <span id="f000004">the rich fields of wheat,</span>
   <span id="f000005">of rye,</span>
   <span id="f000006">of buckwheat,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and Indian corn,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and the orchards burdened with ruddy fruit,</span>
   <span id="f000009">which surrounded the warm tenement of Van Tassel,</span>
   <span id="f000010">his heart yearned after the damsel who was to inherit these domains,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and his imagination expanded with the idea,</span>
   <span id="f000012">how they might be readily turned into cash,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and the money invested in immense tracts of wild land,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and shingle palaces in the wilderness.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000016">his busy fancy already realized his hopes,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and presented to him the blooming Katrina,</span>
   <span id="f000018">with a whole family of children,</span>
   <span id="f000019">mounted on the top of a wagon loaded with household trumpery,</span>
   <span id="f000020">with pots and kettles dangling beneath;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and he beheld himself bestriding a pacing mare,</span>
   <span id="f000022">with a colt at her heels,</span>
   <span id="f000023">setting out for Kentucky,</span>
   <span id="f000024">Tennessee,</span>
   <span id="f000025">– or the Lord knows where!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">When he entered the house,</span>
   <span id="f000027">the conquest of his heart was complete.</span>
   <span id="f000028">It was one of those spacious farmhouses,</span>
   <span id="f000029">with high-ridged but lowly sloping roofs,</span>
   <span id="f000030">built in the style handed down from the first Dutch settlers;</span>
   <span id="f000031">the low projecting eaves forming a piazza along the front,</span>
   <span id="f000032">capable of being closed up in bad weather.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Under this were hung flails,</span>
   <span id="f000034">harness,</span>
   <span id="f000035">various utensils of husbandry,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and nets for fishing in the neighboring river.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Benches were built along the sides for summer use;</span>
   <span id="f000038">and a great spinning-wheel at one end,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and a churn at the other,</span>
   <span id="f000040">showed the various uses to which this important porch might be devoted.</span>
   <span id="f000041">From this piazza the wondering Ichabod entered the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000042">which formed the centre of the mansion,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and the place of usual residence.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Here rows of resplendent pewter,</span>
   <span id="f000045">ranged on a long dresser,</span>
   <span id="f000046">dazzled his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000047">In one corner stood a huge bag of wool,</span>
   <span id="f000048">ready to be spun;</span>
   <span id="f000049">in another,</span>
   <span id="f000050">a quantity of linsey-woolsey just from the loom;</span>
   <span id="f000051">ears of Indian corn,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and strings of dried apples and peaches,</span>
   <span id="f000053">hung in gay festoons along the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000054">mingled with the gaud of red peppers;</span>
   <span id="f000055">and a door left ajar gave him a peep into the best parlor,</span>
   <span id="f000056">where the claw-footed chairs and dark mahogany tables shone like mirrors;</span>
   <span id="f000057">andirons,</span>
   <span id="f000058">with their accompanying shovel and tongs,</span>
   <span id="f000059">glistened from their covert of asparagus tops;</span>
   <span id="f000060">mock-oranges and conch-shells decorated the mantelpiece;</span>
   <span id="f000061">strings of various-colored birds eggs were suspended above it;</span>
   <span id="f000062">a great ostrich egg was hung from the centre of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and a corner cupboard,</span>
   <span id="f000064">knowingly left open,</span>
   <span id="f000065">displayed immense treasures of old silver and well-mended china.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">From the moment Ichabod laid his eyes upon these regions of delight,</span>
   <span id="f000067">the peace of his mind was at an end,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and his only study was how to gain the affections of the peerless daughter of Van Tassel.</span>
   <span id="f000069">In this enterprise,</span>
   <span id="f000070">however,</span>
   <span id="f000071">he had more real difficulties than generally fell to the lot of a knight-errant of yore,</span>
   <span id="f000072">who seldom had anything but giants,</span>
   <span id="f000073">enchanters,</span>
   <span id="f000074">fiery dragons,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and such like easily conquered adversaries,</span>
   <span id="f000076">to contend with and had to make his way merely through gates of iron and brass,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and walls of adamant to the castle keep,</span>
   <span id="f000078">where the lady of his heart was confined;</span>
   <span id="f000079">all which he achieved as easily as a man would carve his way to the centre of a Christmas pie;</span>
   <span id="f000080">and then the lady gave him her hand as a matter of course.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000082">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000083">had to win his way to the heart of a country coquette,</span>
   <span id="f000084">beset with a labyrinth of whims and caprices,</span>
   <span id="f000085">which were forever presenting new difficulties and impediments;</span>
   <span id="f000086">and he had to encounter a host of fearful adversaries of real flesh and blood,</span>
   <span id="f000087">the numerous rustic admirers,</span>
   <span id="f000088">who beset every portal to her heart,</span>
   <span id="f000089">keeping a watchful and angry eye upon each other,</span>
   <span id="f000090">but ready to fly out in the common cause against any new competitor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">Among these,</span>
   <span id="f000092">the most formidable was a burly,</span>
   <span id="f000093">roaring,</span>
   <span id="f000094">roystering blade,</span>
   <span id="f000095">of the name of Abraham,</span>
   <span id="f000096">or,</span>
   <span id="f000097">according to the Dutch abbreviation,</span>
   <span id="f000098">Brom Van Brunt,</span>
   <span id="f000099">the hero of the country round,</span>
   <span id="f000100">which rang with his feats of strength and hardihood.</span>
   <span id="f000101">He was broad-shouldered and double-jointed,</span>
   <span id="f000102">with short curly black hair,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and a bluff but not unpleasant countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000104">having a mingled air of fun and arrogance.</span>
   <span id="f000105">From his Herculean frame and great powers of limb he had received the nickname of BROM BONES,</span>
   <span id="f000106">by which he was universally known.</span>
   <span id="f000107">He was famed for great knowledge and skill in horsemanship,</span>
   <span id="f000108">being as dexterous on horseback as a Tartar.</span>
   <span id="f000109">He was foremost at all races and cock fights;</span>
   <span id="f000110">and,</span>
   <span id="f000111">with the ascendancy which bodily strength always acquires in rustic life,</span>
   <span id="f000112">was the umpire in all disputes,</span>
   <span id="f000113">setting his hat on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and giving his decisions with an air and tone that admitted of no gainsay or appeal.</span>
   <span id="f000115">He was always ready for either a fight or a frolic;</span>
   <span id="f000116">but had more mischief than ill-will in his composition;</span>
   <span id="f000117">and with all his overbearing roughness,</span>
   <span id="f000118">there was a strong dash of waggish good humor at bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000119">He had three or four boon companions,</span>
   <span id="f000120">who regarded him as their model,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and at the head of whom he scoured the country,</span>
   <span id="f000122">attending every scene of feud or merriment for miles round.</span>
   <span id="f000123">In cold weather he was distinguished by a fur cap,</span>
   <span id="f000124">surmounted with a flaunting fox’s tail;</span>
   <span id="f000125">and when the folks at a country gathering descried this well-known crest at a distance,</span>
   <span id="f000126">whisking about among a squad of hard riders,</span>
   <span id="f000127">they always stood by for a squall.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Sometimes his crew would be heard dashing along past the farmhouses at midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000129">with whoop and halloo,</span>
   <span id="f000130">like a troop of Don Cossacks;</span>
   <span id="f000131">and the old dames,</span>
   <span id="f000132">startled out of their sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000133">would listen for a moment till the hurry-scurry had clattered by,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and then exclaim,</span>
   <span id="f000135">“Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000136">there goes Brom Bones and his gang!” The neighbors looked upon him with a mixture of awe,</span>
   <span id="f000137">admiration,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and good-will;</span>
   <span id="f000139">and,</span>
   <span id="f000140">when any madcap prank or rustic brawl occurred in the vicinity,</span>
   <span id="f000141">always shook their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and warranted Brom Bones was at the bottom of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">This rantipole hero had for some time singled out the blooming Katrina for the object of his uncouth gallantries,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and though his amorous toyings were something like the gentle caresses and endearments of a bear,</span>
   <span id="f000145">yet it was whispered that she did not altogether discourage his hopes.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Certain it is,</span>
   <span id="f000147">his advances were signals for rival candidates to retire,</span>
   <span id="f000148">who felt no inclination to cross a lion in his amours;</span>
   <span id="f000149">insomuch,</span>
   <span id="f000150">that when his horse was seen tied to Van Tassel’s paling,</span>
   <span id="f000151">on a Sunday night,</span>
   <span id="f000152">a sure sign that his master was courting,</span>
   <span id="f000153">or,</span>
   <span id="f000154">as it is termed,</span>
   <span id="f000155">“sparking,” within,</span>
   <span id="f000156">all other suitors passed by in despair,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and carried the war into other quarters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">Such was the formidable rival with whom Ichabod Crane had to contend,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and,</span>
   <span id="f000160">considering all things,</span>
   <span id="f000161">a stouter man than he would have shrunk from the competition,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and a wiser man would have despaired.</span>
   <span id="f000163">He had,</span>
   <span id="f000164">however,</span>
   <span id="f000165">a happy mixture of pliability and perseverance in his nature;</span>
   <span id="f000166">he was in form and spirit like a supple-jack – yielding,</span>
   <span id="f000167">but tough;</span>
   <span id="f000168">though he bent,</span>
   <span id="f000169">he never broke;</span>
   <span id="f000170">and though he bowed beneath the slightest pressure,</span>
   <span id="f000171">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000172">the moment it was away – jerk!</span>
   <span id="f000173">– he was as erect,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and carried his head as high as ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">To have taken the field openly against his rival would have been madness;</span>
   <span id="f000176">for he was not a man to be thwarted in his amours,</span>
   <span id="f000177">any more than that stormy lover,</span>
   <span id="f000178">Achilles.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000180">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000181">made his advances in a quiet and gently insinuating manner.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Under cover of his character of singing-master,</span>
   <span id="f000183">he made frequent visits at the farmhouse;</span>
   <span id="f000184">not that he had anything to apprehend from the meddlesome interference of parents,</span>
   <span id="f000185">which is so often a stumbling-block in the path of lovers.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Balt Van Tassel was an easy indulgent soul;</span>
   <span id="f000187">he loved his daughter better even than his pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and,</span>
   <span id="f000189">like a reasonable man and an excellent father,</span>
   <span id="f000190">let her have her way in everything.</span>
   <span id="f000191">His notable little wife,</span>
   <span id="f000192">too,</span>
   <span id="f000193">had enough to do to attend to her housekeeping and manage her poultry;</span>
   <span id="f000194">for,</span>
   <span id="f000195">as she sagely observed,</span>
   <span id="f000196">ducks and geese are foolish things,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and must be looked after,</span>
   <span id="f000198">but girls can take care of themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Thus,</span>
   <span id="f000200">while the busy dame bustled about the house,</span>
   <span id="f000201">or plied her spinning-wheel at one end of the piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000202">honest Balt would sit smoking his evening pipe at the other,</span>
   <span id="f000203">watching the achievements of a little wooden warrior,</span>
   <span id="f000204">who,</span>
   <span id="f000205">armed with a sword in each hand,</span>
   <span id="f000206">was most valiantly fighting the wind on the pinnacle of the barn.</span>
   <span id="f000207">In the mean time,</span>
   <span id="f000208">Ichabod would carry on his suit with the daughter by the side of the spring under the great elm,</span>
   <span id="f000209">or sauntering along in the twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000210">that hour so favorable to the lover’s eloquence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">I profess not to know how women’s hearts are wooed and won.</span>
   <span id="f000212">To me they have always been matters of riddle and admiration.</span>
   <span id="f000213">Some seem to have but one vulnerable point,</span>
   <span id="f000214">or door of access;</span>
   <span id="f000215">while others have a thousand avenues,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and may be captured in a thousand different ways.</span>
   <span id="f000217">It is a great triumph of skill to gain the former,</span>
   <span id="f000218">but a still greater proof of generalship to maintain possession of the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000219">for man must battle for his fortress at every door and window.</span>
   <span id="f000220">He who wins a thousand common hearts is therefore entitled to some renown;</span>
   <span id="f000221">but he who keeps undisputed sway over the heart of a coquette is indeed a hero.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Certain it is,</span>
   <span id="f000223">this was not the case with the redoubtable Brom Bones;</span>
   <span id="f000224">and from the moment Ichabod Crane made his advances,</span>
   <span id="f000225">the interests of the former evidently declined:</span>
   <span id="f000226">his horse was no longer seen tied to the palings on Sunday nights,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and a deadly feud gradually arose between him and the preceptor of Sleepy Hollow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">Brom,</span>
   <span id="f000229">who had a degree of rough chivalry in his nature,</span>
   <span id="f000230">would fain have carried matters to open warfare and have settled their pretensions to the lady,</span>
   <span id="f000231">according to the mode of those most concise and simple reasoners,</span>
   <span id="f000232">the knights-errant of yore,</span>
   <span id="f000233">– by single combat;</span>
   <span id="f000234">but Ichabod was too conscious of the superior might of his adversary to enter the lists against him;</span>
   <span id="f000235">he had overheard a boast of Bones,</span>
   <span id="f000236">that he would “double the schoolmaster up,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and lay him on a shelf of his own schoolhouse;” and he was too wary to give him an opportunity.</span>
   <span id="f000238">There was something extremely provoking in this obstinately pacific system;</span>
   <span id="f000239">it left Brom no alternative but to draw upon the funds of rustic waggery in his disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and to play off boorish practical jokes upon his rival.</span>
   <span id="f000241">Ichabod became the object of whimsical persecution to Bones and his gang of rough riders.</span>
   <span id="f000242">They harried his hitherto peaceful domains;</span>
   <span id="f000243">smoked out his singing school by stopping up the chimney;</span>
   <span id="f000244">broke into the schoolhouse at night,</span>
   <span id="f000245">in spite of its formidable fastenings of withe and window stakes,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and turned everything topsy-turvy,</span>
   <span id="f000247">so that the poor schoolmaster began to think all the witches in the country held their meetings there.</span>
   <span id="f000248">But what was still more annoying,</span>
   <span id="f000249">Brom took all opportunities of turning him into ridicule in presence of his mistress,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and had a scoundrel dog whom he taught to whine in the most ludicrous manner,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and introduced as a rival of Ichabod’s,</span>
   <span id="f000252">to instruct her in psalmody.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">In this way matters went on for some time,</span>
   <span id="f000254">without producing any material effect on the relative situations of the contending powers.</span>
   <span id="f000255">On a fine autumnal afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000256">Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000257">in pensive mood,</span>
   <span id="f000258">sat enthroned on the lofty stool from whence he usually watched all the concerns of his little literary realm.</span>
   <span id="f000259">In his hand he swayed a ferule,</span>
   <span id="f000260">that sceptre of despotic power;</span>
   <span id="f000261">the birch of justice reposed on three nails behind the throne,</span>
   <span id="f000262">a constant terror to evil doers,</span>
   <span id="f000263">while on the desk before him might be seen sundry contraband articles and prohibited weapons,</span>
   <span id="f000264">detected upon the persons of idle urchins,</span>
   <span id="f000265">such as half-munched apples,</span>
   <span id="f000266">popguns,</span>
   <span id="f000267">whirligigs,</span>
   <span id="f000268">fly-cages,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and whole legions of rampant little paper gamecocks.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Apparently there had been some appalling act of justice recently inflicted,</span>
   <span id="f000271">for his scholars were all busily intent upon their books,</span>
   <span id="f000272">or slyly whispering behind them with one eye kept upon the master;</span>
   <span id="f000273">and a kind of buzzing stillness reigned throughout the schoolroom.</span>
   <span id="f000274">It was suddenly interrupted by the appearance of a negro in tow-cloth jacket and trowsers,</span>
   <span id="f000275">a round-crowned fragment of a hat,</span>
   <span id="f000276">like the cap of Mercury,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and mounted on the back of a ragged,</span>
   <span id="f000278">wild,</span>
   <span id="f000279">half-broken colt,</span>
   <span id="f000280">which he managed with a rope by way of halter.</span>
   <span id="f000281">He came clattering up to the school door with an invitation to Ichabod to attend a merry-making or “quilting frolic,” to be held that evening at Mynheer Van Tassel’s;</span>
   <span id="f000282">and having delivered his message with that air of importance,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and effort at fine language,</span>
   <span id="f000284">which a negro is apt to display on petty embassies of the kind,</span>
   <span id="f000285">he dashed over the brook,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and was seen scampering away up the hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000287">full of the importance and hurry of his mission.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">All was now bustle and hubbub in the late quiet schoolroom.</span>
   <span id="f000289">The scholars were hurried through their lessons without stopping at trifles;</span>
   <span id="f000290">those who were nimble skipped over half with impunity,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and those who were tardy had a smart application now and then in the rear,</span>
   <span id="f000292">to quicken their speed or help them over a tall word.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Books were flung aside without being put away on the shelves,</span>
   <span id="f000294">inkstands were overturned,</span>
   <span id="f000295">benches thrown down,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and the whole school was turned loose an hour before the usual time,</span>
   <span id="f000297">bursting forth like a legion of young imps,</span>
   <span id="f000298">yelping and racketing about the green in joy at their early emancipation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">The gallant Ichabod now spent at least an extra half hour at his toilet,</span>
   <span id="f000300">brushing and furbishing up his best,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and indeed only suit of rusty black,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and arranging his locks by a bit of broken looking-glass that hung up in the schoolhouse.</span>
   <span id="f000303">That he might make his appearance before his mistress in the true style of a cavalier,</span>
   <span id="f000304">he borrowed a horse from the farmer with whom he was domiciliated,</span>
   <span id="f000305">a choleric old Dutchman of the name of Hans Van Ripper,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and,</span>
   <span id="f000307">thus gallantly mounted,</span>
   <span id="f000308">issued forth like a knight-errant in quest of adventures.</span>
   <span id="f000309">But it is meet I should,</span>
   <span id="f000310">in the true spirit of romantic story,</span>
   <span id="f000311">give some account of the looks and equipments of my hero and his steed.</span>
   <span id="f000312">The animal he bestrode was a broken-down plow-horse,</span>
   <span id="f000313">that had outlived almost everything but its viciousness.</span>
   <span id="f000314">He was gaunt and shagged,</span>
   <span id="f000315">with a ewe neck,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and a head like a hammer;</span>
   <span id="f000317">his rusty mane and tail were tangled and knotted with burs;</span>
   <span id="f000318">one eye had lost its pupil,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and was glaring and spectral,</span>
   <span id="f000320">but the other had the gleam of a genuine devil in it.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Still he must have had fire and mettle in his day,</span>
   <span id="f000322">if we may judge from the name he bore of Gunpowder.</span>
   <span id="f000323">He had,</span>
   <span id="f000324">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000325">been a favorite steed of his master’s,</span>
   <span id="f000326">the choleric Van Ripper,</span>
   <span id="f000327">who was a furious rider,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and had infused,</span>
   <span id="f000329">very probably,</span>
   <span id="f000330">some of his own spirit into the animal;</span>
   <span id="f000331">for,</span>
   <span id="f000332">old and broken-down as he looked,</span>
   <span id="f000333">there was more of the lurking devil in him than in any young filly in the country.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">Ichabod was a suitable figure for such a steed.</span>
   <span id="f000335">He rode with short stirrups,</span>
   <span id="f000336">which brought his knees nearly up to the pommel of the saddle;</span>
   <span id="f000337">his sharp elbows stuck out like grasshoppers’;</span>
   <span id="f000338">he carried his whip perpendicularly in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000339">like a sceptre,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and as his horse jogged on,</span>
   <span id="f000341">the motion of his arms was not unlike the flapping of a pair of wings.</span>
   <span id="f000342">A small wool hat rested on the top of his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000343">for so his scanty strip of forehead might be called,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and the skirts of his black coat fluttered out almost to the horses tail.</span>
   <span id="f000345">Such was the appearance of Ichabod and his steed as they shambled out of the gate of Hans Van Ripper,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and it was altogether such an apparition as is seldom to be met with in broad daylight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">It was,</span>
   <span id="f000348">as I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000349">a fine autumnal day;</span>
   <span id="f000350">the sky was clear and serene,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and nature wore that rich and golden livery which we always associate with the idea of abundance.</span>
   <span id="f000352">The forests had put on their sober brown and yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000353">while some trees of the tenderer kind had been nipped by the frosts into brilliant dyes of orange,</span>
   <span id="f000354">purple,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and scarlet.</span>
   <span id="f000356">Streaming files of wild ducks began to make their appearance high in the air;</span>
   <span id="f000357">the bark of the squirrel might be heard from the groves of beech and hickory-nuts,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and the pensive whistle of the quail at intervals from the neighboring stubble field.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">The small birds were taking their farewell banquets.</span>
   <span id="f000360">In the fullness of their revelry,</span>
   <span id="f000361">they fluttered,</span>
   <span id="f000362">chirping and frolicking from bush to bush,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and tree to tree,</span>
   <span id="f000364">capricious from the very profusion and variety around them.</span>
   <span id="f000365">There was the honest cock robin,</span>
   <span id="f000366">the favorite game of stripling sportsmen,</span>
   <span id="f000367">with its loud querulous note;</span>
   <span id="f000368">and the twittering blackbirds flying in sable clouds;</span>
   <span id="f000369">and the golden-winged woodpecker with his crimson crest,</span>
   <span id="f000370">his broad black gorget,</span>
   <span id="f000371">and splendid plumage;</span>
   <span id="f000372">and the cedar bird,</span>
   <span id="f000373">with its red-tipt wings and yellow-tipt tail and its little monteiro cap of feathers;</span>
   <span id="f000374">and the blue jay,</span>
   <span id="f000375">that noisy coxcomb,</span>
   <span id="f000376">in his gay light blue coat and white underclothes,</span>
   <span id="f000377">screaming and chattering,</span>
   <span id="f000378">nodding and bobbing and bowing,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and pretending to be on good terms with every songster of the grove.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">As Ichabod jogged slowly on his way,</span>
   <span id="f000381">his eye,</span>
   <span id="f000382">ever open to every symptom of culinary abundance,</span>
   <span id="f000383">ranged with delight over the treasures of jolly autumn.</span>
   <span id="f000384">On all sides he beheld vast store of apples;</span>
   <span id="f000385">some hanging in oppressive opulence on the trees;</span>
   <span id="f000386">some gathered into baskets and barrels for the market;</span>
   <span id="f000387">others heaped up in rich piles for the cider-press.</span>
   <span id="f000388">Farther on he beheld great fields of Indian corn,</span>
   <span id="f000389">with its golden ears peeping from their leafy coverts,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and holding out the promise of cakes and hasty-pudding;</span>
   <span id="f000391">and the yellow pumpkins lying beneath them,</span>
   <span id="f000392">turning up their fair round bellies to the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and giving ample prospects of the most luxurious of pies;</span>
   <span id="f000394">and anon he passed the fragrant buckwheat fields breathing the odor of the beehive,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and as he beheld them,</span>
   <span id="f000396">soft anticipations stole over his mind of dainty slapjacks,</span>
   <span id="f000397">well buttered,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and garnished with honey or treacle,</span>
   <span id="f000399">by the delicate little dimpled hand of Katrina Van Tassel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">Thus feeding his mind with many sweet thoughts and “sugared suppositions,” he journeyed along the sides of a range of hills which look out upon some of the goodliest scenes of the mighty Hudson.</span>
   <span id="f000401">The sun gradually wheeled his broad disk down in the west.</span>
   <span id="f000402">The wide bosom of the Tappan Zee lay motionless and glassy,</span>
   <span id="f000403">excepting that here and there a gentle undulation waved and prolonged the blue shadow of the distant mountain.</span>
   <span id="f000404">A few amber clouds floated in the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000405">without a breath of air to move them.</span>
   <span id="f000406">The horizon was of a fine golden tint,</span>
   <span id="f000407">changing gradually into a pure apple green,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and from that into the deep blue of the mid-heaven.</span>
   <span id="f000409">A slanting ray lingered on the woody crests of the precipices that overhung some parts of the river,</span>
   <span id="f000410">giving greater depth to the dark gray and purple of their rocky sides.</span>
   <span id="f000411">A sloop was loitering in the distance,</span>
   <span id="f000412">dropping slowly down with the tide,</span>
   <span id="f000413">her sail hanging uselessly against the mast;</span>
   <span id="f000414">and as the reflection of the sky gleamed along the still water,</span>
   <span id="f000415">it seemed as if the vessel was suspended in the air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">It was toward evening that Ichabod arrived at the castle of the Heer Van Tassel,</span>
   <span id="f000417">which he found thronged with the pride and flower of the adjacent country.</span>
   <span id="f000418">Old farmers,</span>
   <span id="f000419">a spare leathern-faced race,</span>
   <span id="f000420">in homespun coats and breeches,</span>
   <span id="f000421">blue stockings,</span>
   <span id="f000422">huge shoes,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and magnificent pewter buckles.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Their brisk,</span>
   <span id="f000425">withered little dames,</span>
   <span id="f000426">in close-crimped caps,</span>
   <span id="f000427">long-waisted short gowns,</span>
   <span id="f000428">homespun petticoats,</span>
   <span id="f000429">with scissors and pincushions,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and gay calico pockets hanging on the outside.</span>
   <span id="f000431">Buxom lasses,</span>
   <span id="f000432">almost as antiquated as their mothers,</span>
   <span id="f000433">excepting where a straw hat,</span>
   <span id="f000434">a fine ribbon,</span>
   <span id="f000435">or perhaps a white frock,</span>
   <span id="f000436">gave symptoms of city innovation.</span>
   <span id="f000437">The sons,</span>
   <span id="f000438">in short square-skirted coats,</span>
   <span id="f000439">with rows of stupendous brass buttons,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and their hair generally queued in the fashion of the times,</span>
   <span id="f000441">especially if they could procure an eel-skin for the purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000442">it being esteemed throughout the country as a potent nourisher and strengthener of the hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">Brom Bones,</span>
   <span id="f000444">however,</span>
   <span id="f000445">was the hero of the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000446">having come to the gathering on his favorite steed Daredevil,</span>
   <span id="f000447">a creature,</span>
   <span id="f000448">like himself,</span>
   <span id="f000449">full of mettle and mischief,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and which no one but himself could manage.</span>
   <span id="f000451">He was,</span>
   <span id="f000452">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000453">noted for preferring vicious animals,</span>
   <span id="f000454">given to all kinds of tricks which kept the rider in constant risk of his neck,</span>
   <span id="f000455">for he held a tractable,</span>
   <span id="f000456">well-broken horse as unworthy of a lad of spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">Fain would I pause to dwell upon the world of charms that burst upon the enraptured gaze of my hero,</span>
   <span id="f000458">as he entered the state parlor of Van Tassel’s mansion.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Not those of the bevy of buxom lasses,</span>
   <span id="f000460">with their luxurious display of red and white;</span>
   <span id="f000461">but the ample charms of a genuine Dutch country tea-table,</span>
   <span id="f000462">in the sumptuous time of autumn.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Such heaped up platters of cakes of various and almost indescribable kinds,</span>
   <span id="f000464">known only to experienced Dutch housewives!</span>
   <span id="f000465">There was the doughty doughnut,</span>
   <span id="f000466">the tender oly koek,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and the crisp and crumbling cruller;</span>
   <span id="f000468">sweet cakes and short cakes,</span>
   <span id="f000469">ginger cakes and honey cakes,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and the whole family of cakes.</span>
   <span id="f000471">And then there were apple pies,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and peach pies,</span>
   <span id="f000473">and pumpkin pies;</span>
   <span id="f000474">besides slices of ham and smoked beef;</span>
   <span id="f000475">and moreover delectable dishes of preserved plums,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and peaches,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and pears,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and quinces;</span>
   <span id="f000479">not to mention broiled shad and roasted chickens;</span>
   <span id="f000480">together with bowls of milk and cream,</span>
   <span id="f000481">all mingled higgledy-piggledy,</span>
   <span id="f000482">pretty much as I have enumerated them,</span>
   <span id="f000483">with the motherly teapot sending up its clouds of vapor from the midst – Heaven bless the mark!</span>
   <span id="f000484">I want breath and time to discuss this banquet as it deserves,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and am too eager to get on with my story.</span>
   <span id="f000486">Happily,</span>
   <span id="f000487">Ichabod Crane was not in so great a hurry as his historian,</span>
   <span id="f000488">but did ample justice to every dainty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">He was a kind and thankful creature,</span>
   <span id="f000490">whose heart dilated in proportion as his skin was filled with good cheer,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and whose spirits rose with eating,</span>
   <span id="f000492">as some men’s do with drink.</span>
   <span id="f000493">He could not help,</span>
   <span id="f000494">too,</span>
   <span id="f000495">rolling his large eyes round him as he ate,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and chuckling with the possibility that he might one day be lord of all this scene of almost unimaginable luxury and splendor.</span>
   <span id="f000497">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000498">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000499">how soon he’d turn his back upon the old schoolhouse;</span>
   <span id="f000500">snap his fingers in the face of Hans Van Ripper,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and every other niggardly patron,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and kick any itinerant pedagogue out of doors that should dare to call him comrade!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">Old Baltus Van Tassel moved about among his guests with a face dilated with content and good humor,</span>
   <span id="f000504">round and jolly as the harvest moon.</span>
   <span id="f000505">His hospitable attentions were brief,</span>
   <span id="f000506">but expressive,</span>
   <span id="f000507">being confined to a shake of the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000508">a slap on the shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000509">a loud laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and a pressing invitation to “fall to,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and help themselves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">And now the sound of the music from the common room,</span>
   <span id="f000513">or hall,</span>
   <span id="f000514">summoned to the dance.</span>
   <span id="f000515">The musician was an old gray-headed negro,</span>
   <span id="f000516">who had been the itinerant orchestra of the neighborhood for more than half a century.</span>
   <span id="f000517">His instrument was as old and battered as himself.</span>
   <span id="f000518">The greater part of the time he scraped on two or three strings,</span>
   <span id="f000519">accompanying every movement of the bow with a motion of the head;</span>
   <span id="f000520">bowing almost to the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and stamping with his foot whenever a fresh couple were to start.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

