<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Ichabod prided himself upon his dancing as much as upon his vocal powers.</span>
   <span id="f000003">Not a limb,</span>
   <span id="f000004">not a fibre about him was idle;</span>
   <span id="f000005">and to have seen his loosely hung frame in full motion,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and clattering about the room,</span>
   <span id="f000007">you would have thought St.&#160;Vitus himself,</span>
   <span id="f000008">that blessed patron of the dance,</span>
   <span id="f000009">was figuring before you in person.</span>
   <span id="f000010">He was the admiration of all the negroes;</span>
   <span id="f000011">who,</span>
   <span id="f000012">having gathered,</span>
   <span id="f000013">of all ages and sizes,</span>
   <span id="f000014">from the farm and the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000015">stood forming a pyramid of shining black faces at every door and window,</span>
   <span id="f000016">gazing with delight at the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000017">rolling their white eyeballs,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and showing grinning rows of ivory from ear to ear.</span>
   <span id="f000019">How could the flogger of urchins be otherwise than animated and joyous?</span>
   <span id="f000020">The lady of his heart was his partner in the dance,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and smiling graciously in reply to all his amorous oglings;</span>
   <span id="f000022">while Brom Bones,</span>
   <span id="f000023">sorely smitten with love and jealousy,</span>
   <span id="f000024">sat brooding by himself in one corner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">When the dance was at an end,</span>
   <span id="f000026">Ichabod was attracted to a knot of the sager folks,</span>
   <span id="f000027">who,</span>
   <span id="f000028">with Old Van Tassel,</span>
   <span id="f000029">sat smoking at one end of the piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000030">gossiping over former times,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and drawing out long stories about the war.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">This neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000033">at the time of which I am speaking,</span>
   <span id="f000034">was one of those highly favored places which abound with chronicle and great men.</span>
   <span id="f000035">The British and American line had run near it during the war;</span>
   <span id="f000036">it had,</span>
   <span id="f000037">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000038">been the scene of marauding and infested with refugees,</span>
   <span id="f000039">cowboys,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and all kinds of border chivalry.</span>
   <span id="f000041">Just sufficient time had elapsed to enable each storyteller to dress up his tale with a little becoming fiction,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and,</span>
   <span id="f000043">in the indistinctness of his recollection,</span>
   <span id="f000044">to make himself the hero of every exploit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">There was the story of Doffue Martling,</span>
   <span id="f000046">a large blue-bearded Dutchman,</span>
   <span id="f000047">who had nearly taken a British frigate with an old iron nine-pounder from a mud breastwork,</span>
   <span id="f000048">only that his gun burst at the sixth discharge.</span>
   <span id="f000049">And there was an old gentleman who shall be nameless,</span>
   <span id="f000050">being too rich a mynheer to be lightly mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000051">who,</span>
   <span id="f000052">in the battle of White Plains,</span>
   <span id="f000053">being an excellent master of defence,</span>
   <span id="f000054">parried a musket-ball with a small sword,</span>
   <span id="f000055">insomuch that he absolutely felt it whiz round the blade,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and glance off at the hilt;</span>
   <span id="f000057">in proof of which he was ready at any time to show the sword,</span>
   <span id="f000058">with the hilt a little bent.</span>
   <span id="f000059">There were several more that had been equally great in the field,</span>
   <span id="f000060">not one of whom but was persuaded that he had a considerable hand in bringing the war to a happy termination.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">But all these were nothing to the tales of ghosts and apparitions that succeeded.</span>
   <span id="f000062">The neighborhood is rich in legendary treasures of the kind.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Local tales and superstitions thrive best in these sheltered,</span>
   <span id="f000064">long-settled retreats;</span>
   <span id="f000065">but are trampled under foot by the shifting throng that forms the population of most of our country places.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000067">there is no encouragement for ghosts in most of our villages,</span>
   <span id="f000068">for they have scarcely had time to finish their first nap and turn themselves in their graves,</span>
   <span id="f000069">before their surviving friends have travelled away from the neighborhood;</span>
   <span id="f000070">so that when they turn out at night to walk their rounds,</span>
   <span id="f000071">they have no acquaintance left to call upon.</span>
   <span id="f000072">This is perhaps the reason why we so seldom hear of ghosts except in our long-established Dutch communities.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">The immediate cause,</span>
   <span id="f000074">however,</span>
   <span id="f000075">of the prevalence of supernatural stories in these parts,</span>
   <span id="f000076">was doubtless owing to the vicinity of Sleepy Hollow.</span>
   <span id="f000077">There was a contagion in the very air that blew from that haunted region;</span>
   <span id="f000078">it breathed forth an atmosphere of dreams and fancies infecting all the land.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Several of the Sleepy Hollow people were present at Van Tassel’s,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and,</span>
   <span id="f000081">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000082">were doling out their wild and wonderful legends.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Many dismal tales were told about funeral trains,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and mourning cries and wailings heard and seen about the great tree where the unfortunate Major André was taken,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and which stood in the neighborhood.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Some mention was made also of the woman in white,</span>
   <span id="f000087">that haunted the dark glen at Raven Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and was often heard to shriek on winter nights before a storm,</span>
   <span id="f000089">having perished there in the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000090">The chief part of the stories,</span>
   <span id="f000091">however,</span>
   <span id="f000092">turned upon the favorite spectre of Sleepy Hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000093">the Headless Horseman,</span>
   <span id="f000094">who had been heard several times of late,</span>
   <span id="f000095">patrolling the country;</span>
   <span id="f000096">and,</span>
   <span id="f000097">it was said,</span>
   <span id="f000098">tethered his horse nightly among the graves in the churchyard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">The sequestered situation of this church seems always to have made it a favorite haunt of troubled spirits.</span>
   <span id="f000100">It stands on a knoll,</span>
   <span id="f000101">surrounded by locust-trees and lofty elms,</span>
   <span id="f000102">from among which its decent,</span>
   <span id="f000103">whitewashed walls shine modestly forth,</span>
   <span id="f000104">like Christian purity beaming through the shades of retirement.</span>
   <span id="f000105">A gentle slope descends from it to a silver sheet of water,</span>
   <span id="f000106">bordered by high trees,</span>
   <span id="f000107">between which,</span>
   <span id="f000108">peeps may be caught at the blue hills of the Hudson.</span>
   <span id="f000109">To look upon its grass-grown yard,</span>
   <span id="f000110">where the sunbeams seem to sleep so quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000111">one would think that there at least the dead might rest in peace.</span>
   <span id="f000112">On one side of the church extends a wide woody dell,</span>
   <span id="f000113">along which raves a large brook among broken rocks and trunks of fallen trees.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Over a deep black part of the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000115">not far from the church,</span>
   <span id="f000116">was formerly thrown a wooden bridge;</span>
   <span id="f000117">the road that led to it,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and the bridge itself,</span>
   <span id="f000119">were thickly shaded by overhanging trees,</span>
   <span id="f000120">which cast a gloom about it,</span>
   <span id="f000121">even in the daytime;</span>
   <span id="f000122">but occasioned a fearful darkness at night.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Such was one of the favorite haunts of the Headless Horseman,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and the place where he was most frequently encountered.</span>
   <span id="f000125">The tale was told of old Brouwer,</span>
   <span id="f000126">a most heretical disbeliever in ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000127">how he met the Horseman returning from his foray into Sleepy Hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and was obliged to get up behind him;</span>
   <span id="f000129">how they galloped over bush and brake,</span>
   <span id="f000130">over hill and swamp,</span>
   <span id="f000131">until they reached the bridge;</span>
   <span id="f000132">when the Horseman suddenly turned into a skeleton,</span>
   <span id="f000133">threw old Brouwer into the brook,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and sprang away over the tree-tops with a clap of thunder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">This story was immediately matched by a thrice marvellous adventure of Brom Bones,</span>
   <span id="f000136">who made light of the Galloping Hessian as an arrant jockey.</span>
   <span id="f000137">He affirmed that on returning one night from the neighboring village of Sing Sing,</span>
   <span id="f000138">he had been overtaken by this midnight trooper;</span>
   <span id="f000139">that he had offered to race with him for a bowl of punch,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and should have won it too,</span>
   <span id="f000141">for Daredevil beat the goblin horse all hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000142">but just as they came to the church bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000143">the Hessian bolted,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and vanished in a flash of fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">All these tales,</span>
   <span id="f000146">told in that drowsy undertone with which men talk in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000147">the countenances of the listeners only now and then receiving a casual gleam from the glare of a pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000148">sank deep in the mind of Ichabod.</span>
   <span id="f000149">He repaid them in kind with large extracts from his invaluable author,</span>
   <span id="f000150">Cotton Mather,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and added many marvellous events that had taken place in his native State of Connecticut,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and fearful sights which he had seen in his nightly walks about Sleepy Hollow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">The revel now gradually broke up.</span>
   <span id="f000154">The old farmers gathered together their families in their wagons,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and were heard for some time rattling along the hollow roads,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and over the distant hills.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Some of the damsels mounted on pillions behind their favorite swains,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and their light-hearted laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000159">mingling with the clatter of hoofs,</span>
   <span id="f000160">echoed along the silent woodlands,</span>
   <span id="f000161">sounding fainter and fainter,</span>
   <span id="f000162">until they gradually died away,</span>
   <span id="f000163">– and the late scene of noise and frolic was all silent and deserted.</span>
   <span id="f000164">Ichabod only lingered behind,</span>
   <span id="f000165">according to the custom of country lovers,</span>
   <span id="f000166">to have a tête-à-tête with the heiress;</span>
   <span id="f000167">fully convinced that he was now on the high road to success.</span>
   <span id="f000168">What passed at this interview I will not pretend to say,</span>
   <span id="f000169">for in fact I do not know.</span>
   <span id="f000170">Something,</span>
   <span id="f000171">however,</span>
   <span id="f000172">I fear me,</span>
   <span id="f000173">must have gone wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000174">for he certainly sallied forth,</span>
   <span id="f000175">after no very great interval,</span>
   <span id="f000176">with an air quite desolate and chapfallen.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000178">these women!</span>
   <span id="f000179">these women!</span>
   <span id="f000180">Could that girl have been playing off any of her coquettish tricks?</span>
   <span id="f000181">Was her encouragement of the poor pedagogue all a mere sham to secure her conquest of his rival?</span>
   <span id="f000182">Heaven only knows,</span>
   <span id="f000183">not I!</span>
   <span id="f000184">Let it suffice to say,</span>
   <span id="f000185">Ichabod stole forth with the air of one who had been sacking a henroost,</span>
   <span id="f000186">rather than a fair lady’s heart.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Without looking to the right or left to notice the scene of rural wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000188">on which he had so often gloated,</span>
   <span id="f000189">he went straight to the stable,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and with several hearty cuffs and kicks roused his steed most uncourteously from the comfortable quarters in which he was soundly sleeping,</span>
   <span id="f000191">dreaming of mountains of corn and oats,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and whole valleys of timothy and clover.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">It was the very witching time of night that Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000194">heavy-hearted and crestfallen,</span>
   <span id="f000195">pursued his travels homewards,</span>
   <span id="f000196">along the sides of the lofty hills which rise above Tarry Town,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and which he had traversed so cheerily in the afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000198">The hour was as dismal as himself.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Far below him the Tappan Zee spread its dusky and indistinct waste of waters,</span>
   <span id="f000200">with here and there the tall mast of a sloop,</span>
   <span id="f000201">riding quietly at anchor under the land.</span>
   <span id="f000202">In the dead hush of midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000203">he could even hear the barking of the watchdog from the opposite shore of the Hudson;</span>
   <span id="f000204">but it was so vague and faint as only to give an idea of his distance from this faithful companion of man.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000206">too,</span>
   <span id="f000207">the long-drawn crowing of a cock,</span>
   <span id="f000208">accidentally awakened,</span>
   <span id="f000209">would sound far,</span>
   <span id="f000210">far off,</span>
   <span id="f000211">from some farmhouse away among the hills – but it was like a dreaming sound in his ear.</span>
   <span id="f000212">No signs of life occurred near him,</span>
   <span id="f000213">but occasionally the melancholy chirp of a cricket,</span>
   <span id="f000214">or perhaps the guttural twang of a bullfrog from a neighboring marsh,</span>
   <span id="f000215">as if sleeping uncomfortably and turning suddenly in his bed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">All the stories of ghosts and goblins that he had heard in the afternoon now came crowding upon his recollection.</span>
   <span id="f000217">The night grew darker and darker;</span>
   <span id="f000218">the stars seemed to sink deeper in the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and driving clouds occasionally hid them from his sight.</span>
   <span id="f000220">He had never felt so lonely and dismal.</span>
   <span id="f000221">He was,</span>
   <span id="f000222">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000223">approaching the very place where many of the scenes of the ghost stories had been laid.</span>
   <span id="f000224">In the centre of the road stood an enormous tulip-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000225">which towered like a giant above all the other trees of the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and formed a kind of landmark.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Its limbs were gnarled and fantastic,</span>
   <span id="f000228">large enough to form trunks for ordinary trees,</span>
   <span id="f000229">twisting down almost to the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and rising again into the air.</span>
   <span id="f000231">It was connected with the tragical story of the unfortunate André,</span>
   <span id="f000232">who had been taken prisoner hard by;</span>
   <span id="f000233">and was universally known by the name of Major André’s tree.</span>
   <span id="f000234">The common people regarded it with a mixture of respect and superstition,</span>
   <span id="f000235">partly out of sympathy for the fate of its ill-starred namesake,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and partly from the tales of strange sights,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and doleful lamentations,</span>
   <span id="f000238">told concerning it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">As Ichabod approached this fearful tree,</span>
   <span id="f000240">he began to whistle;</span>
   <span id="f000241">he thought his whistle was answered;</span>
   <span id="f000242">it was but a blast sweeping sharply through the dry branches.</span>
   <span id="f000243">As he approached a little nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000244">he thought he saw something white,</span>
   <span id="f000245">hanging in the midst of the tree:</span>
   <span id="f000246">he paused and ceased whistling but,</span>
   <span id="f000247">on looking more narrowly,</span>
   <span id="f000248">perceived that it was a place where the tree had been scathed by lightning,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and the white wood laid bare.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Suddenly he heard a groan – his teeth chattered,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and his knees smote against the saddle:</span>
   <span id="f000252">it was but the rubbing of one huge bough upon another,</span>
   <span id="f000253">as they were swayed about by the breeze.</span>
   <span id="f000254">He passed the tree in safety,</span>
   <span id="f000255">but new perils lay before him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">About two hundred yards from the tree,</span>
   <span id="f000257">a small brook crossed the road,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and ran into a marshy and thickly-wooded glen,</span>
   <span id="f000259">known by the name of Wiley’s Swamp.</span>
   <span id="f000260">A few rough logs,</span>
   <span id="f000261">laid side by side,</span>
   <span id="f000262">served for a bridge over this stream.</span>
   <span id="f000263">On that side of the road where the brook entered the wood,</span>
   <span id="f000264">a group of oaks and chestnuts,</span>
   <span id="f000265">matted thick with wild grape-vines,</span>
   <span id="f000266">threw a cavernous gloom over it.</span>
   <span id="f000267">To pass this bridge was the severest trial.</span>
   <span id="f000268">It was at this identical spot that the unfortunate André was captured,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and under the covert of those chestnuts and vines were the sturdy yeomen concealed who surprised him.</span>
   <span id="f000270">This has ever since been considered a haunted stream,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and fearful are the feelings of the schoolboy who has to pass it alone after dark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">As he approached the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000273">his heart began to thump;</span>
   <span id="f000274">he summoned up,</span>
   <span id="f000275">however,</span>
   <span id="f000276">all his resolution,</span>
   <span id="f000277">gave his horse half a score of kicks in the ribs,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and attempted to dash briskly across the bridge;</span>
   <span id="f000279">but instead of starting forward,</span>
   <span id="f000280">the perverse old animal made a lateral movement,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and ran broadside against the fence.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000283">whose fears increased with the delay,</span>
   <span id="f000284">jerked the reins on the other side,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and kicked lustily with the contrary foot:</span>
   <span id="f000286">it was all in vain;</span>
   <span id="f000287">his steed started,</span>
   <span id="f000288">it is true,</span>
   <span id="f000289">but it was only to plunge to the opposite side of the road into a thicket of brambles and alder bushes.</span>
   <span id="f000290">The schoolmaster now bestowed both whip and heel upon the starveling ribs of old Gunpowder,</span>
   <span id="f000291">who dashed forward,</span>
   <span id="f000292">snuffling and snorting,</span>
   <span id="f000293">but came to a stand just by the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000294">with a suddenness that had nearly sent his rider sprawling over his head.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Just at this moment a plashy tramp by the side of the bridge caught the sensitive ear of Ichabod.</span>
   <span id="f000296">In the dark shadow of the grove,</span>
   <span id="f000297">on the margin of the brook,</span>
   <span id="f000298">he beheld something huge,</span>
   <span id="f000299">misshapen and towering.</span>
   <span id="f000300">It stirred not,</span>
   <span id="f000301">but seemed gathered up in the gloom,</span>
   <span id="f000302">like some gigantic monster ready to spring upon the traveller.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">The hair of the affrighted pedagogue rose upon his head with terror.</span>
   <span id="f000304">What was to be done?</span>
   <span id="f000305">To turn and fly was now too late;</span>
   <span id="f000306">and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000307">what chance was there of escaping ghost or goblin,</span>
   <span id="f000308">if such it was,</span>
   <span id="f000309">which could ride upon the wings of the wind?</span>
   <span id="f000310">Summoning up,</span>
   <span id="f000311">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000312">a show of courage,</span>
   <span id="f000313">he demanded in stammering accents,</span>
   <span id="f000314">“Who are you?” He received no reply.</span>
   <span id="f000315">He repeated his demand in a still more agitated voice.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Still there was no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000317">Once more he cudgelled the sides of the inflexible Gunpowder,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and,</span>
   <span id="f000319">shutting his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000320">broke forth with involuntary fervor into a psalm tune.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Just then the shadowy object of alarm put itself in motion,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and with a scramble and a bound stood at once in the middle of the road.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Though the night was dark and dismal,</span>
   <span id="f000324">yet the form of the unknown might now in some degree be ascertained.</span>
   <span id="f000325">He appeared to be a horseman of large dimensions,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and mounted on a black horse of powerful frame.</span>
   <span id="f000327">He made no offer of molestation or sociability,</span>
   <span id="f000328">but kept aloof on one side of the road,</span>
   <span id="f000329">jogging along on the blind side of old Gunpowder,</span>
   <span id="f000330">who had now got over his fright and waywardness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000332">who had no relish for this strange midnight companion,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and bethought himself of the adventure of Brom Bones with the Galloping Hessian,</span>
   <span id="f000334">now quickened his steed in hopes of leaving him behind.</span>
   <span id="f000335">The stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000336">however,</span>
   <span id="f000337">quickened his horse to an equal pace.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Ichabod pulled up,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and fell into a walk,</span>
   <span id="f000340">thinking to lag behind,</span>
   <span id="f000341">– the other did the same.</span>
   <span id="f000342">His heart began to sink within him;</span>
   <span id="f000343">he endeavored to resume his psalm tune,</span>
   <span id="f000344">but his parched tongue clove to the roof of his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and he could not utter a stave.</span>
   <span id="f000346">There was something in the moody and dogged silence of this pertinacious companion that was mysterious and appalling.</span>
   <span id="f000347">It was soon fearfully accounted for.</span>
   <span id="f000348">On mounting a rising ground,</span>
   <span id="f000349">which brought the figure of his fellow-traveller in relief against the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000350">gigantic in height,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and muffled in a cloak,</span>
   <span id="f000352">Ichabod was horror-struck on perceiving that he was headless!</span>
   <span id="f000353">– but his horror was still more increased on observing that the head,</span>
   <span id="f000354">which should have rested on his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000355">was carried before him on the pommel of his saddle!</span>
   <span id="f000356">His terror rose to desperation;</span>
   <span id="f000357">he rained a shower of kicks and blows upon Gunpowder,</span>
   <span id="f000358">hoping by a sudden movement to give his companion the slip;</span>
   <span id="f000359">but the spectre started full jump with him.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Away,</span>
   <span id="f000361">then,</span>
   <span id="f000362">they dashed through thick and thin;</span>
   <span id="f000363">stones flying and sparks flashing at every bound.</span>
   <span id="f000364">Ichabod’s flimsy garments fluttered in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000365">as he stretched his long lank body away over his horse’s head,</span>
   <span id="f000366">in the eagerness of his flight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">They had now reached the road which turns off to Sleepy Hollow;</span>
   <span id="f000368">but Gunpowder,</span>
   <span id="f000369">who seemed possessed with a demon,</span>
   <span id="f000370">instead of keeping up it,</span>
   <span id="f000371">made an opposite turn,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and plunged headlong downhill to the left.</span>
   <span id="f000373">This road leads through a sandy hollow shaded by trees for about a quarter of a mile,</span>
   <span id="f000374">where it crosses the bridge famous in goblin story;</span>
   <span id="f000375">and just beyond swells the green knoll on which stands the whitewashed church.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">As yet the panic of the steed had given his unskilful rider an apparent advantage in the chase,</span>
   <span id="f000377">but just as he had got half way through the hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000378">the girths of the saddle gave way,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and he felt it slipping from under him.</span>
   <span id="f000380">He seized it by the pommel,</span>
   <span id="f000381">and endeavored to hold it firm,</span>
   <span id="f000382">but in vain;</span>
   <span id="f000383">and had just time to save himself by clasping old Gunpowder round the neck,</span>
   <span id="f000384">when the saddle fell to the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and he heard it trampled under foot by his pursuer.</span>
   <span id="f000386">For a moment the terror of Hans Van Ripper’s wrath passed across his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000387">– for it was his Sunday saddle;</span>
   <span id="f000388">but this was no time for petty fears;</span>
   <span id="f000389">the goblin was hard on his haunches;</span>
   <span id="f000390">and</span>
   <span id="f000391">(unskilful rider that he was!)</span>
   <span id="f000392">he had much ado to maintain his seat;</span>
   <span id="f000393">sometimes slipping on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000394">sometimes on another,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and sometimes jolted on the high ridge of his horse’s backbone,</span>
   <span id="f000396">with a violence that he verily feared would cleave him asunder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">An opening in the trees now cheered him with the hopes that the church bridge was at hand.</span>
   <span id="f000398">The wavering reflection of a silver star in the bosom of the brook told him that he was not mistaken.</span>
   <span id="f000399">He saw the walls of the church dimly glaring under the trees beyond.</span>
   <span id="f000400">He recollected the place where Brom Bones’s ghostly competitor had disappeared.</span>
   <span id="f000401">“If I can but reach that bridge,” thought Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000402">“I am safe.” Just then he heard the black steed panting and blowing close behind him;</span>
   <span id="f000403">he even fancied that he felt his hot breath.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Another convulsive kick in the ribs,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and old Gunpowder sprang upon the bridge;</span>
   <span id="f000406">he thundered over the resounding planks;</span>
   <span id="f000407">he gained the opposite side;</span>
   <span id="f000408">and now Ichabod cast a look behind to see if his pursuer should vanish,</span>
   <span id="f000409">according to rule,</span>
   <span id="f000410">in a flash of fire and brimstone.</span>
   <span id="f000411">Just then he saw the goblin rising in his stirrups,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and in the very act of hurling his head at him.</span>
   <span id="f000413">Ichabod endeavored to dodge the horrible missile,</span>
   <span id="f000414">but too late.</span>
   <span id="f000415">It encountered his cranium with a tremendous crash,</span>
   <span id="f000416">– he was tumbled headlong into the dust,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and Gunpowder,</span>
   <span id="f000418">the black steed,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and the goblin rider,</span>
   <span id="f000420">passed by like a whirlwind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">The next morning the old horse was found without his saddle,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and with the bridle under his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000423">soberly cropping the grass at his master’s gate.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Ichabod did not make his appearance at breakfast;</span>
   <span id="f000425">dinner-hour came,</span>
   <span id="f000426">but no Ichabod.</span>
   <span id="f000427">The boys assembled at the schoolhouse,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and strolled idly about the banks of the brook;</span>
   <span id="f000429">but no schoolmaster.</span>
   <span id="f000430">Hans Van Ripper now began to feel some uneasiness about the fate of poor Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and his saddle.</span>
   <span id="f000432">An inquiry was set on foot,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and after diligent investigation they came upon his traces.</span>
   <span id="f000434">In one part of the road leading to the church was found the saddle trampled in the dirt;</span>
   <span id="f000435">the tracks of horses’ hoofs deeply dented in the road,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and evidently at furious speed,</span>
   <span id="f000437">were traced to the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000438">beyond which,</span>
   <span id="f000439">on the bank of a broad part of the brook,</span>
   <span id="f000440">where the water ran deep and black,</span>
   <span id="f000441">was found the hat of the unfortunate Ichabod,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and close beside it a shattered pumpkin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">The brook was searched,</span>
   <span id="f000444">but the body of the schoolmaster was not to be discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000445">Hans Van Ripper as executor of his estate,</span>
   <span id="f000446">examined the bundle which contained all his worldly effects.</span>
   <span id="f000447">They consisted of two shirts and a half;</span>
   <span id="f000448">two stocks for the neck;</span>
   <span id="f000449">a pair or two of worsted stockings;</span>
   <span id="f000450">an old pair of corduroy small-clothes;</span>
   <span id="f000451">a rusty razor;</span>
   <span id="f000452">a book of psalm tunes full of dog’s-ears;</span>
   <span id="f000453">and a broken pitch-pipe.</span>
   <span id="f000454">As to the books and furniture of the schoolhouse,</span>
   <span id="f000455">they belonged to the community,</span>
   <span id="f000456">excepting Cotton Mather’s “History of Witchcraft,” a “New England Almanac,” and a book of dreams and fortune-telling;</span>
   <span id="f000457">in which last was a sheet of foolscap much scribbled and blotted in several fruitless attempts to make a copy of verses in honor of the heiress of Van Tassel.</span>
   <span id="f000458">These magic books and the poetic scrawl were forthwith consigned to the flames by Hans Van Ripper;</span>
   <span id="f000459">who,</span>
   <span id="f000460">from that time forward,</span>
   <span id="f000461">determined to send his children no more to school,</span>
   <span id="f000462">observing that he never knew any good come of this same reading and writing.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Whatever money the schoolmaster possessed,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and he had received his quarter’s pay but a day or two before,</span>
   <span id="f000465">he must have had about his person at the time of his disappearance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">The mysterious event caused much speculation at the church on the following Sunday.</span>
   <span id="f000467">Knots of gazers and gossips were collected in the churchyard,</span>
   <span id="f000468">at the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and at the spot where the hat and pumpkin had been found.</span>
   <span id="f000470">The stories of Brouwer,</span>
   <span id="f000471">of Bones,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and a whole budget of others were called to mind;</span>
   <span id="f000473">and when they had diligently considered them all,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and compared them with the symptoms of the present case,</span>
   <span id="f000475">they shook their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and came to the conclusion that Ichabod had been carried off by the Galloping Hessian.</span>
   <span id="f000477">As he was a bachelor,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and in nobody’s debt,</span>
   <span id="f000479">nobody troubled his head any more about him;</span>
   <span id="f000480">the school was removed to a different quarter of the hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and another pedagogue reigned in his stead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">It is true,</span>
   <span id="f000483">an old farmer,</span>
   <span id="f000484">who had been down to New York on a visit several years after,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and from whom this account of the ghostly adventure was received,</span>
   <span id="f000486">brought home the intelligence that Ichabod Crane was still alive;</span>
   <span id="f000487">that he had left the neighborhood partly through fear of the goblin and Hans Van Ripper,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and partly in mortification at having been suddenly dismissed by the heiress;</span>
   <span id="f000489">that he had changed his quarters to a distant part of the country;</span>
   <span id="f000490">had kept school and studied law at the same time;</span>
   <span id="f000491">had been admitted to the bar;</span>
   <span id="f000492">turned politician;</span>
   <span id="f000493">electioneered;</span>
   <span id="f000494">written for the newspapers;</span>
   <span id="f000495">and finally had been made a justice of the Ten Pound Court.</span>
   <span id="f000496">Brom Bones,</span>
   <span id="f000497">too,</span>
   <span id="f000498">who,</span>
   <span id="f000499">shortly after his rival’s disappearance conducted the blooming Katrina in triumph to the altar,</span>
   <span id="f000500">was observed to look exceedingly knowing whenever the story of Ichabod was related,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and always burst into a hearty laugh at the mention of the pumpkin;</span>
   <span id="f000502">which led some to suspect that he knew more about the matter than he chose to tell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">The old country wives,</span>
   <span id="f000504">however,</span>
   <span id="f000505">who are the best judges of these matters,</span>
   <span id="f000506">maintain to this day that Ichabod was spirited away by supernatural means;</span>
   <span id="f000507">and it is a favorite story often told about the neighborhood round the winter evening fire.</span>
   <span id="f000508">The bridge became more than ever an object of superstitious awe;</span>
   <span id="f000509">and that may be the reason why the road has been altered of late years,</span>
   <span id="f000510">so as to approach the church by the border of the millpond.</span>
   <span id="f000511">The schoolhouse being deserted soon fell to decay,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and was reported to be haunted by the ghost of the unfortunate pedagogue and the plowboy,</span>
   <span id="f000513">loitering homeward of a still summer evening,</span>
   <span id="f000514">has often fancied his voice at a distance,</span>
   <span id="f000515">chanting a melancholy psalm tune among the tranquil solitudes of Sleepy Hollow.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000516">POSTSCRIPT</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">FOUND IN THE HANDWRITING OF MR.</span>
   <span id="f000518">KNICKERBOCKER</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">The preceding tale is given almost in the precise words in which I heard it related at a Corporation meeting at the ancient city of Manhattoes,</span>
   <span id="f000520">at which were present many of its sagest and most illustrious burghers.</span>
   <span id="f000521">The narrator was a pleasant,</span>
   <span id="f000522">shabby,</span>
   <span id="f000523">gentlemanly old fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000524">in pepper-and-salt clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000525">with a sadly humourous face,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and one whom I strongly suspected of being poor – he made such efforts to be entertaining.</span>
   <span id="f000527">When his story was concluded,</span>
   <span id="f000528">there was much laughter and approbation,</span>
   <span id="f000529">particularly from two or three deputy aldermen,</span>
   <span id="f000530">who had been asleep the greater part of the time.</span>
   <span id="f000531">There was,</span>
   <span id="f000532">however,</span>
   <span id="f000533">one tall,</span>
   <span id="f000534">dry-looking old gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000535">with beetling eyebrows,</span>
   <span id="f000536">who maintained a grave and rather severe face throughout,</span>
   <span id="f000537">now and then folding his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000538">inclining his head,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and looking down upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000540">as if turning a doubt over in his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000541">He was one of your wary men,</span>
   <span id="f000542">who never laugh but upon good grounds – when they have reason and law on their side.</span>
   <span id="f000543">When the mirth of the rest of the company had subsided,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and silence was restored,</span>
   <span id="f000545">he leaned one arm on the elbow of his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000546">and sticking the other akimbo,</span>
   <span id="f000547">demanded,</span>
   <span id="f000548">with a slight,</span>
   <span id="f000549">but exceedingly sage motion of the head,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and contraction of the brow,</span>
   <span id="f000551">what was the moral of the story,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and what it went to prove?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">The story-teller,</span>
   <span id="f000554">who was just putting a glass of wine to his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000555">as a refreshment after his toils,</span>
   <span id="f000556">paused for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000557">looked at his inquirer with an air of infinite deference,</span>
   <span id="f000558">and,</span>
   <span id="f000559">lowering the glass slowly to the table,</span>
   <span id="f000560">observed that the story was intended most logically to prove –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">That there is no situation in life but has its advantages and pleasures – provided we will but take a joke as we find it:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">That,</span>
   <span id="f000563">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000564">he that runs races with goblin troopers is likely to have rough riding of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">“Ergo,</span>
   <span id="f000566">for a country schoolmaster to be refused the hand of a Dutch heiress is a certain step to high preferment in the state.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000567">The cautious old gentleman knit his brows tenfold closer after this explanation,</span>
   <span id="f000568">being sorely puzzled by the ratiocination of the syllogism,</span>
   <span id="f000569">while,</span>
   <span id="f000570">methought,</span>
   <span id="f000571">the one in pepper-and-salt eyed him with something of a triumphant leer.</span>
   <span id="f000572">At length he observed that all this was very well,</span>
   <span id="f000573">but still he thought the story a little on the extravagant – there were one or two points on which he had his doubts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">“Faith,</span>
   <span id="f000575">sir,” replied the story-teller,</span>
   <span id="f000576">“as to that matter,</span>
   <span id="f000577">I don’t believe one-half of it myself.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

