<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure XII<br />The Adventure of the Copper Beeches</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">“To the man who loves art for its own sake,” remarked Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000009">tossing aside the advertisement sheet of the Daily Telegraph,</span>
   <span id="f000010">“it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived.</span>
   <span id="f000011">It is pleasant to me to observe,</span>
   <span id="f000012">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000013">that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and,</span>
   <span id="f000015">I am bound to say,</span>
   <span id="f000016">occasionally to embellish,</span>
   <span id="f000017">you have given prominence not so much to the many causes célèbres and sensational trials in which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been trivial in themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000018">but which have given room for those faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made my special province.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">“And yet,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000020">smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000021">“I cannot quite hold myself absolved from the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">“You have erred,</span>
   <span id="f000023">perhaps,” he observed,</span>
   <span id="f000024">taking up a glowing cinder with the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a meditative mood – “you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and life into each of your statements instead of confining yourself to the task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect which is really the only notable feature about the thing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">“It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter,” I remarked with some coldness,</span>
   <span id="f000026">for I was repelled by the egotism which I had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friend’s singular character.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000028">it is not selfishness or conceit,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000029">answering,</span>
   <span id="f000030">as was his wont,</span>
   <span id="f000031">my thoughts rather than my words.</span>
   <span id="f000032">“If I claim full justice for my art,</span>
   <span id="f000033">it is because it is an impersonal thing – a thing beyond myself.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Crime is common.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Logic is rare.</span>
   <span id="f000036">Therefore it is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should dwell.</span>
   <span id="f000037">You have degraded what should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">It was a cold morning of the early spring,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and we sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at Baker Street.</span>
   <span id="f000040">A thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and the opposing windows loomed like dark,</span>
   <span id="f000042">shapeless blurs through the heavy yellow wreaths.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and glimmer of china and metal,</span>
   <span id="f000044">for the table had not been cleared yet.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Sherlock Holmes had been silent all the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000046">dipping continuously into the advertisement columns of a succession of papers until at last,</span>
   <span id="f000047">having apparently given up his search,</span>
   <span id="f000048">he had emerged in no very sweet temper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">“At the same time,” he remarked after a pause,</span>
   <span id="f000050">during which he had sat puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000051">“you can hardly be open to a charge of sensationalism,</span>
   <span id="f000052">for out of these cases which you have been so kind as to interest yourself in,</span>
   <span id="f000053">a fair proportion do not treat of crime,</span>
   <span id="f000054">in its legal sense,</span>
   <span id="f000055">at all.</span>
   <span id="f000056">The small matter in which I endeavoured to help the King of Bohemia,</span>
   <span id="f000057">the singular experience of Miss Mary Sutherland,</span>
   <span id="f000058">the problem connected with the man with the twisted lip,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and the incident of the noble bachelor,</span>
   <span id="f000060">were all matters which are outside the pale of the law.</span>
   <span id="f000061">But in avoiding the sensational,</span>
   <span id="f000062">I fear that you may have bordered on the trivial.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“The end may have been so,” I answered,</span>
   <span id="f000064">“but the methods I hold to have been novel and of interest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“Pshaw,</span>
   <span id="f000066">my dear fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000067">what do the public,</span>
   <span id="f000068">the great unobservant public,</span>
   <span id="f000069">who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a compositor by his left thumb,</span>
   <span id="f000070">care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction!</span>
   <span id="f000071">But,</span>
   <span id="f000072">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000073">if you are trivial,</span>
   <span id="f000074">I cannot blame you,</span>
   <span id="f000075">for the days of the great cases are past.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Man,</span>
   <span id="f000077">or at least criminal man,</span>
   <span id="f000078">has lost all enterprise and originality.</span>
   <span id="f000079">As to my own little practice,</span>
   <span id="f000080">it seems to be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from boarding-schools.</span>
   <span id="f000081">I think that I have touched bottom at last,</span>
   <span id="f000082">however.</span>
   <span id="f000083">This note I had this morning marks my zero-point,</span>
   <span id="f000084">I fancy.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Read it!” He tossed a crumpled letter across to me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and ran thus:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000088">DEAR MR.</span>
   <span id="f000089">HOLMES:</span>
   <span id="f000090">– I am very anxious to consult you as to whether I should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to me as governess.</span>
   <span id="f000091">I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I do not inconvenience you.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Yours faithfully,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“VIOLET HUNTER.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000094">“Do you know the young lady?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Not I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“It is half-past ten now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and I have no doubt that is her ring.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“It may turn out to be of more interest than you think.</span>
   <span id="f000100">You remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle,</span>
   <span id="f000101">which appeared to be a mere whim at first,</span>
   <span id="f000102">developed into a serious investigation.</span>
   <span id="f000103">It may be so in this case,</span>
   <span id="f000104">also.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000106">let us hope so.</span>
   <span id="f000107">But our doubts will very soon be solved,</span>
   <span id="f000108">for here,</span>
   <span id="f000109">unless I am much mistaken,</span>
   <span id="f000110">is the person in question.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room.</span>
   <span id="f000112">She was plainly but neatly dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000113">with a bright,</span>
   <span id="f000114">quick face,</span>
   <span id="f000115">freckled like a plover’s egg,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own way to make in the world.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“You will excuse my troubling you,</span>
   <span id="f000118">I am sure,” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000119">as my companion rose to greet her,</span>
   <span id="f000120">“but I have had a very strange experience,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and as I have no parents or relations of any sort from whom I could ask advice,</span>
   <span id="f000122">I thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what I should do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“Pray take a seat,</span>
   <span id="f000124">Miss Hunter.</span>
   <span id="f000125">I shall be happy to do anything that I can to serve you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and speech of his new client.</span>
   <span id="f000127">He looked her over in his searching fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and then composed himself,</span>
   <span id="f000129">with his lids drooping and his finger-tips together,</span>
   <span id="f000130">to listen to her story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“I have been a governess for five years,” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000132">"in the family of Colonel Spence Munro,</span>
   <span id="f000133">but two months ago the colonel received an appointment at Halifax,</span>
   <span id="f000134">in Nova Scotia,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and took his children over to America with him,</span>
   <span id="f000136">so that I found myself without a situation.</span>
   <span id="f000137">I advertised,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and I answered advertisements,</span>
   <span id="f000139">but without success.</span>
   <span id="f000140">At last the little money which I had saved began to run short,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and I was at my wit’s end as to what I should do.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End called Westaway’s,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and there I used to call about once a week in order to see whether anything had turned up which might suit me.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Westaway was the name of the founder of the business,</span>
   <span id="f000145">but it is really managed by Miss Stoper.</span>
   <span id="f000146">She sits in her own little office,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and the ladies who are seeking employment wait in an anteroom,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and are then shown in one by one,</span>
   <span id="f000149">when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything which would suit them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000151">when I called last week I was shown into the little office as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000152">but I found that Miss Stoper was not alone.</span>
   <span id="f000153">A prodigiously stout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of glasses on his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000154">looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered.</span>
   <span id="f000155">As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to Miss Stoper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">’That will do,’ said he;</span>
   <span id="f000157">’I could not ask for anything better.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Capital!</span>
   <span id="f000159">capital!’ He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands together in the most genial fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000160">He was such a comfortable-looking man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">’You are looking for a situation,</span>
   <span id="f000162">miss?’ he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000164">sir.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">’As governess?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000167">sir.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">’And what salary do you ask?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">’I had 4 pounds a month in my last place with Colonel Spence Munro.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000171">tut,</span>
   <span id="f000172">tut!</span>
   <span id="f000173">sweating – rank sweating!’ he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000174">throwing his fat hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion.</span>
   <span id="f000175">’How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">’My accomplishments,</span>
   <span id="f000177">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000178">may be less than you imagine,’ said I.</span>
   <span id="f000179">’A little French,</span>
   <span id="f000180">a little German,</span>
   <span id="f000181">music,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and drawing – ’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">’Tut,</span>
   <span id="f000184">tut!’ he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000185">’This is all quite beside the question.</span>
   <span id="f000186">The point is,</span>
   <span id="f000187">have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a lady?</span>
   <span id="f000188">There it is in a nutshell.</span>
   <span id="f000189">If you have not,</span>
   <span id="f000190">you are not fitted for the rearing of a child who may some day play a considerable part in the history of the country.</span>
   <span id="f000191">But if you have why,</span>
   <span id="f000192">then,</span>
   <span id="f000193">how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures?</span>
   <span id="f000194">Your salary with me,</span>
   <span id="f000195">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000196">would commence at 100 pounds a year.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">You may imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000198">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000199">that to me,</span>
   <span id="f000200">destitute as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000201">such an offer seemed almost too good to be true.</span>
   <span id="f000202">The gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000203">however,</span>
   <span id="f000204">seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face,</span>
   <span id="f000205">opened a pocket-book and took out a note.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">’It is also my custom,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000207">smiling in the most pleasant fashion until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid the white creases of his face,</span>
   <span id="f000208">’to advance to my young ladies half their salary beforehand,</span>
   <span id="f000209">so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey and their wardrobe.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful a man.</span>
   <span id="f000211">As I was already in debt to my tradesmen,</span>
   <span id="f000212">the advance was a great convenience,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and yet there was something unnatural about the whole transaction which made me wish to know a little more before I quite committed myself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">’May I ask where you live,</span>
   <span id="f000215">sir?’ said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">’Hampshire.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Charming rural place.</span>
   <span id="f000218">The Copper Beeches,</span>
   <span id="f000219">five miles on the far side of Winchester.</span>
   <span id="f000220">It is the most lovely country,</span>
   <span id="f000221">my dear young lady,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and the dearest old country-house.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">’And my duties,</span>
   <span id="f000224">sir?</span>
   <span id="f000225">I should be glad to know what they would be.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">’One child – one dear little romper just six years old.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000228">if you could see him killing cockroaches with a slipper!</span>
   <span id="f000229">Smack!</span>
   <span id="f000230">smack!</span>
   <span id="f000231">smack!</span>
   <span id="f000232">Three gone before you could wink!’ He leaned back in his chair and laughed his eyes into his head again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">I was a little startled at the nature of the child’s amusement,</span>
   <span id="f000234">but the father’s laughter made me think that perhaps he was joking.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">’My sole duties,</span>
   <span id="f000236">then,’ I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000237">’are to take charge of a single child?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000239">no,</span>
   <span id="f000240">not the sole,</span>
   <span id="f000241">not the sole,</span>
   <span id="f000242">my dear young lady,’ he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000243">’Your duty would be,</span>
   <span id="f000244">as I am sure your good sense would suggest,</span>
   <span id="f000245">to obey any little commands my wife might give,</span>
   <span id="f000246">provided always that they were such commands as a lady might with propriety obey.</span>
   <span id="f000247">You see no difficulty,</span>
   <span id="f000248">heh?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">’I should be happy to make myself useful.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">’Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000251">In dress now,</span>
   <span id="f000252">for example.</span>
   <span id="f000253">We are faddy people,</span>
   <span id="f000254">you know – faddy but kind-hearted.</span>
   <span id="f000255">If you were asked to wear any dress which we might give you,</span>
   <span id="f000256">you would not object to our little whim.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Heh?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">’No,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000259">considerably astonished at his words.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">’Or to sit here,</span>
   <span id="f000261">or sit there,</span>
   <span id="f000262">that would not be offensive to you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000264">no.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">’Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">I could hardly believe my ears.</span>
   <span id="f000267">As you may observe,</span>
   <span id="f000268">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000269">my hair is somewhat luxuriant,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut.</span>
   <span id="f000271">It has been considered artistic.</span>
   <span id="f000272">I could not dream of sacrificing it in this offhand fashion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">’I am afraid that that is quite impossible,’ said I.</span>
   <span id="f000274">He had been watching me eagerly out of his small eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and I could see a shadow pass over his face as I spoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">’I am afraid that it is quite essential,’ said he.</span>
   <span id="f000277">’It is a little fancy of my wife’s,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and ladies’ fancies,</span>
   <span id="f000279">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000280">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000281">ladies’ fancies must be consulted.</span>
   <span id="f000282">And so you won’t cut your hair?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000284">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000285">I really could not,’ I answered firmly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">’Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000287">very well;</span>
   <span id="f000288">then that quite settles the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000289">It is a pity,</span>
   <span id="f000290">because in other respects you would really have done very nicely.</span>
   <span id="f000291">In that case,</span>
   <span id="f000292">Miss Stoper,</span>
   <span id="f000293">I had best inspect a few more of your young ladies.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">The manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a word to either of us,</span>
   <span id="f000295">but she glanced at me now with so much annoyance upon her face that I could not help suspecting that she had lost a handsome commission through my refusal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">’Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books?’ she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">’If you please,</span>
   <span id="f000298">Miss Stoper.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000300">really,</span>
   <span id="f000301">it seems rather useless,</span>
   <span id="f000302">since you refuse the most excellent offers in this fashion,’ said she sharply.</span>
   <span id="f000303">’You can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you.</span>
   <span id="f000304">Good-day to you,</span>
   <span id="f000305">Miss Hunter.’ She struck a gong upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and I was shown out by the page.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000308">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000309">when I got back to my lodgings and found little enough in the cupboard,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and two or three bills upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000311">I began to ask myself whether I had not done a very foolish thing.</span>
   <span id="f000312">After all,</span>
   <span id="f000313">if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most extraordinary matters,</span>
   <span id="f000314">they were at least ready to pay for their eccentricity.</span>
   <span id="f000315">Very few governesses in England are getting 100 pounds a year.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000317">what use was my hair to me?</span>
   <span id="f000318">Many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Next day I was inclined to think that I had made a mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and by the day after I was sure of it.</span>
   <span id="f000321">I had almost overcome my pride so far as to go back to the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when I received this letter from the gentleman himself.</span>
   <span id="f000322">I have it here and I will read it to you:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000323">’The Copper Beeches,</span>
   <span id="f000324">near Winchester.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">’DEAR MISS HUNTER:</span>
   <span id="f000326">– Miss Stoper has very kindly given me your address,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and I write from here to ask you whether you have reconsidered your decision.</span>
   <span id="f000328">My wife is very anxious that you should come,</span>
   <span id="f000329">for she has been much attracted by my description of you.</span>
   <span id="f000330">We are willing to give 30 pounds a quarter,</span>
   <span id="f000331">or 120 pounds a year,</span>
   <span id="f000332">so as to recompense you for any little inconvenience which our fads may cause you.</span>
   <span id="f000333">They are not very exacting,</span>
   <span id="f000334">after all.</span>
   <span id="f000335">My wife is fond of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000336">You need not,</span>
   <span id="f000337">however,</span>
   <span id="f000338">go to the expense of purchasing one,</span>
   <span id="f000339">as we have one belonging to my dear daughter Alice</span>
   <span id="f000340">(now in Philadelphia),</span>
   <span id="f000341">which would,</span>
   <span id="f000342">I should think,</span>
   <span id="f000343">fit you very well.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000345">as to sitting here or there,</span>
   <span id="f000346">or amusing yourself in any manner indicated,</span>
   <span id="f000347">that need cause you no inconvenience.</span>
   <span id="f000348">As regards your hair,</span>
   <span id="f000349">it is no doubt a pity,</span>
   <span id="f000350">especially as I could not help remarking its beauty during our short interview,</span>
   <span id="f000351">but I am afraid that I must remain firm upon this point,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and I only hope that the increased salary may recompense you for the loss.</span>
   <span id="f000353">Your duties,</span>
   <span id="f000354">as far as the child is concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000355">are very light.</span>
   <span id="f000356">Now do try to come,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and I shall meet you with the dog-cart at Winchester.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Let me know your train.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">Yours faithfully,</span>
   <span id="f000360">JEPHRO RUCASTLE.’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000361">“That is the letter which I have just received,</span>
   <span id="f000362">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and my mind is made up that I will accept it.</span>
   <span id="f000364">I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000365">however,</span>
   <span id="f000366">that before taking the final step I should like to submit the whole matter to your consideration.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000368">Miss Hunter,</span>
   <span id="f000369">if your mind is made up,</span>
   <span id="f000370">that settles the question,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000371">smiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">“But you would not advise me to refuse?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to see a sister of mine apply for.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“What is the meaning of it all,</span>
   <span id="f000375">Mr.&#160;Holmes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000377">I have no data.</span>
   <span id="f000378">I cannot tell.</span>
   <span id="f000379">Perhaps you have yourself formed some opinion?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000381">there seems to me to be only one possible solution.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Mr.&#160;Rucastle seemed to be a very kind,</span>
   <span id="f000383">good-natured man.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic,</span>
   <span id="f000385">that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“That is a possible solution – in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000388">as matters stand,</span>
   <span id="f000389">it is the most probable one.</span>
   <span id="f000390">But in any case it does not seem to be a nice household for a young lady.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“But the money,</span>
   <span id="f000392">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000393">the money!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000395">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000396">of course the pay is good – too good.</span>
   <span id="f000397">That is what makes me uneasy.</span>
   <span id="f000398">Why should they give you 120 pounds a year,</span>
   <span id="f000399">when they could have their pick for 40 pounds?</span>
   <span id="f000400">There must be some strong reason behind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would understand afterwards if I wanted your help.</span>
   <span id="f000402">I should feel so much stronger if I felt that you were at the back of me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000404">you may carry that feeling away with you.</span>
   <span id="f000405">I assure you that your little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my way for some months.</span>
   <span id="f000406">There is something distinctly novel about some of the features.</span>
   <span id="f000407">If you should find yourself in doubt or in danger – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“Danger!</span>
   <span id="f000409">What danger do you foresee?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">Holmes shook his head gravely.</span>
   <span id="f000411">“It would cease to be a danger if we could define it,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000412">“But at any time,</span>
   <span id="f000413">day or night,</span>
   <span id="f000414">a telegram would bring me down to your help.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“That is enough.” She rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all swept from her face.</span>
   <span id="f000416">“I shall go down to Hampshire quite easy in my mind now.</span>
   <span id="f000417">I shall write to Mr.&#160;Rucastle at once,</span>
   <span id="f000418">sacrifice my poor hair to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and start for Winchester to-morrow.” With a few grateful words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled off upon her way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000420">“At least,” said I as we heard her quick,</span>
   <span id="f000421">firm steps descending the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000422">“she seems to be a young lady who is very well able to take care of herself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“And she would need to be,” said Holmes gravely.</span>
   <span id="f000424">“I am much mistaken if we do not hear from her before many days are past.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">It was not very long before my friend’s prediction was fulfilled.</span>
   <span id="f000426">A fortnight went by,</span>
   <span id="f000427">during which I frequently found my thoughts turning in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of human experience this lonely woman had strayed into.</span>
   <span id="f000428">The unusual salary,</span>
   <span id="f000429">the curious conditions,</span>
   <span id="f000430">the light duties,</span>
   <span id="f000431">all pointed to something abnormal,</span>
   <span id="f000432">though whether a fad or a plot,</span>
   <span id="f000433">or whether the man were a philanthropist or a villain,</span>
   <span id="f000434">it was quite beyond my powers to determine.</span>
   <span id="f000435">As to Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000436">I observed that he sat frequently for half an hour on end,</span>
   <span id="f000437">with knitted brows and an abstracted air,</span>
   <span id="f000438">but he swept the matter away with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it.</span>
   <span id="f000439">“Data!</span>
   <span id="f000440">data!</span>
   <span id="f000441">data!” he cried impatiently.</span>
   <span id="f000442">“I can’t make bricks without clay.” And yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a situation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">The telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as I was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down to one of those all-night chemical researches which he frequently indulged in,</span>
   <span id="f000444">when I would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at night and find him in the same position when I came down to breakfast in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000445">He opened the yellow envelope,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000447">glancing at the message,</span>
   <span id="f000448">threw it across to me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“Just look up the trains in Bradshaw,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and turned back to his chemical studies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">The summons was a brief and urgent one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">“Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday to-morrow,” it said.</span>
   <span id="f000453">“Do come!</span>
   <span id="f000454">I am at my wit’s end.</span>
   <span id="f000455">HUNTER.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“Will you come with me?” asked Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000457">glancing up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">“I should wish to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“Just look it up,</span>
   <span id="f000460">then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“There is a train at half-past nine,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000462">glancing over my Bradshaw.</span>
   <span id="f000463">“It is due at Winchester at 11:30.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">“That will do very nicely.</span>
   <span id="f000465">Then perhaps I had better postpone my analysis of the acetones,</span>
   <span id="f000466">as we may need to be at our best in the morning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">By eleven o’clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old English capital.</span>
   <span id="f000468">Holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the way down,</span>
   <span id="f000469">but after we had passed the Hampshire border he threw them down and began to admire the scenery.</span>
   <span id="f000470">It was an ideal spring day,</span>
   <span id="f000471">a light blue sky,</span>
   <span id="f000472">flecked with little fleecy white clouds drifting across from west to east.</span>
   <span id="f000473">The sun was shining very brightly,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000475">which set an edge to a man’s energy.</span>
   <span id="f000476">All over the countryside,</span>
   <span id="f000477">away to the rolling hills around Aldershot,</span>
   <span id="f000478">the little red and grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from amid the light green of the new foliage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">“Are they not fresh and beautiful?” I cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">But Holmes shook his head gravely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">“Do you know,</span>
   <span id="f000482">Watson,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000483">“that it is one of the curses of a mind with a turn like mine that I must look at everything with reference to my own special subject.</span>
   <span id="f000484">You look at these scattered houses,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and you are impressed by their beauty.</span>
   <span id="f000486">I look at them,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and the only thought which comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with which crime may be committed there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“Good heavens!” I cried.</span>
   <span id="f000489">“Who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">“They always fill me with a certain horror.</span>
   <span id="f000491">It is my belief,</span>
   <span id="f000492">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000493">founded upon my experience,</span>
   <span id="f000494">that the lowest and vilest alleys in London do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and beautiful countryside.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“You horrify me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“But the reason is very obvious.</span>
   <span id="f000497">The pressure of public opinion can do in the town what the law cannot accomplish.</span>
   <span id="f000498">There is no lane so vile that the scream of a tortured child,</span>
   <span id="f000499">or the thud of a drunkard’s blow,</span>
   <span id="f000500">does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and then the whole machinery of justice is ever so close that a word of complaint can set it going,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and there is but a step between the crime and the dock.</span>
   <span id="f000503">But look at these lonely houses,</span>
   <span id="f000504">each in its own fields,</span>
   <span id="f000505">filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the law.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Think of the deeds of hellish cruelty,</span>
   <span id="f000507">the hidden wickedness which may go on,</span>
   <span id="f000508">year in,</span>
   <span id="f000509">year out,</span>
   <span id="f000510">in such places,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and none the wiser.</span>
   <span id="f000512">Had this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester,</span>
   <span id="f000513">I should never have had a fear for her.</span>
   <span id="f000514">It is the five miles of country which makes the danger.</span>
   <span id="f000515">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000516">it is clear that she is not personally threatened.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000518">If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">“Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000520">She has her freedom.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">“What CAN be the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000522">then?</span>
   <span id="f000523">Can you suggest no explanation?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“I have devised seven separate explanations,</span>
   <span id="f000525">each of which would cover the facts as far as we know them.</span>
   <span id="f000526">But which of these is correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt find waiting for us.</span>
   <span id="f000527">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000528">there is the tower of the cathedral,</span>
   <span id="f000529">and we shall soon learn all that Miss Hunter has to tell.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street,</span>
   <span id="f000531">at no distance from the station,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and there we found the young lady waiting for us.</span>
   <span id="f000533">She had engaged a sitting-room,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and our lunch awaited us upon the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“I am so delighted that you have come,” she said earnestly.</span>
   <span id="f000536">“It is so very kind of you both;</span>
   <span id="f000537">but indeed I do not know what I should do.</span>
   <span id="f000538">Your advice will be altogether invaluable to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">“Pray tell us what has happened to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“I will do so,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and I must be quick,</span>
   <span id="f000542">for I have promised Mr.&#160;Rucastle to be back before three.</span>
   <span id="f000543">I got his leave to come into town this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000544">though he little knew for what purpose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">“Let us have everything in its due order.” Holmes thrust his long thin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“In the first place,</span>
   <span id="f000547">I may say that I have met,</span>
   <span id="f000548">on the whole,</span>
   <span id="f000549">with no actual ill-treatment from Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Rucastle.</span>
   <span id="f000550">It is only fair to them to say that.</span>
   <span id="f000551">But I cannot understand them,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and I am not easy in my mind about them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">“What can you not understand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">Their reasons for their conduct.</span>
   <span id="f000555">But you shall have it all just as it occurred.</span>
   <span id="f000556">When I came down,</span>
   <span id="f000557">Mr.&#160;Rucastle met me here and drove me in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches.</span>
   <span id="f000558">It is,</span>
   <span id="f000559">as he said,</span>
   <span id="f000560">beautifully situated,</span>
   <span id="f000561">but it is not beautiful in itself,</span>
   <span id="f000562">for it is a large square block of a house,</span>
   <span id="f000563">whitewashed,</span>
   <span id="f000564">but all stained and streaked with damp and bad weather.</span>
   <span id="f000565">There are grounds round it,</span>
   <span id="f000566">woods on three sides,</span>
   <span id="f000567">and on the fourth a field which slopes down to the Southampton highroad,</span>
   <span id="f000568">which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door.</span>
   <span id="f000569">This ground in front belongs to the house,</span>
   <span id="f000570">but the woods all round are part of Lord Southerton’s preserves.</span>
   <span id="f000571">A clump of copper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given its name to the place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">I was driven over by my employer,</span>
   <span id="f000573">who was as amiable as ever,</span>
   <span id="f000574">and was introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child.</span>
   <span id="f000575">There was no truth,</span>
   <span id="f000576">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000577">in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable in your rooms at Baker Street.</span>
   <span id="f000578">Mrs.&#160;Rucastle is not mad.</span>
   <span id="f000579">I found her to be a silent,</span>
   <span id="f000580">pale-faced woman,</span>
   <span id="f000581">much younger than her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000582">not more than thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000583">I should think,</span>
   <span id="f000584">while he can hardly be less than forty-five.</span>
   <span id="f000585">From their conversation I have gathered that they have been married about seven years,</span>
   <span id="f000586">that he was a widower,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and that his only child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia.</span>
   <span id="f000588">Mr.&#160;Rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother.</span>
   <span id="f000589">As the daughter could not have been less than twenty,</span>
   <span id="f000590">I can quite imagine that her position must have been uncomfortable with her father’s young wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">“Mrs.&#160;Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as in feature.</span>
   <span id="f000592">She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse.</span>
   <span id="f000593">She was a nonentity.</span>
   <span id="f000594">It was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to her husband and to her little son.</span>
   <span id="f000595">Her light grey eyes wandered continually from one to the other,</span>
   <span id="f000596">noting every little want and forestalling it if possible.</span>
   <span id="f000597">He was kind to her also in his bluff,</span>
   <span id="f000598">boisterous fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000599">and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple.</span>
   <span id="f000600">And yet she had some secret sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000601">this woman.</span>
   <span id="f000602">She would often be lost in deep thought,</span>
   <span id="f000603">with the saddest look upon her face.</span>
   <span id="f000604">More than once I have surprised her in tears.</span>
   <span id="f000605">I have thought sometimes that it was the disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind,</span>
   <span id="f000606">for I have never met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature.</span>
   <span id="f000607">He is small for his age,</span>
   <span id="f000608">with a head which is quite disproportionately large.</span>
   <span id="f000609">His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking.</span>
   <span id="f000610">Giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice,</span>
   <span id="f000612">little birds,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and insects.</span>
   <span id="f000614">But I would rather not talk about the creature,</span>
   <span id="f000615">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and,</span>
   <span id="f000617">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000618">he has little to do with my story.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">“I am glad of all details,” remarked my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000620">“whether they seem to you to be relevant or not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">I shall try not to miss anything of importance.</span>
   <span id="f000622">The one unpleasant thing about the house,</span>
   <span id="f000623">which struck me at once,</span>
   <span id="f000624">was the appearance and conduct of the servants.</span>
   <span id="f000625">There are only two,</span>
   <span id="f000626">a man and his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000627">Toller,</span>
   <span id="f000628">for that is his name,</span>
   <span id="f000629">is a rough,</span>
   <span id="f000630">uncouth man,</span>
   <span id="f000631">with grizzled hair and whiskers,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and a perpetual smell of drink.</span>
   <span id="f000633">Twice since I have been with them he has been quite drunk,</span>
   <span id="f000634">and yet Mr.&#160;Rucastle seemed to take no notice of it.</span>
   <span id="f000635">His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face,</span>
   <span id="f000636">as silent as Mrs.&#160;Rucastle and much less amiable.</span>
   <span id="f000637">They are a most unpleasant couple,</span>
   <span id="f000638">but fortunately I spend most of my time in the nursery and my own room,</span>
   <span id="f000639">which are next to each other in one corner of the building.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was very quiet;</span>
   <span id="f000641">on the third,</span>
   <span id="f000642">Mrs.&#160;Rucastle came down just after breakfast and whispered something to her husband.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000644">yes,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000645">turning to me,</span>
   <span id="f000646">’we are very much obliged to you,</span>
   <span id="f000647">Miss Hunter,</span>
   <span id="f000648">for falling in with our whims so far as to cut your hair.</span>
   <span id="f000649">I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000650">We shall now see how the electric-blue dress will become you.</span>
   <span id="f000651">You will find it laid out upon the bed in your room,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and if you would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of blue.</span>
   <span id="f000654">It was of excellent material,</span>
   <span id="f000655">a sort of beige,</span>
   <span id="f000656">but it bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before.</span>
   <span id="f000657">It could not have been a better fit if I had been measured for it.</span>
   <span id="f000658">Both Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it,</span>
   <span id="f000659">which seemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence.</span>
   <span id="f000660">They were waiting for me in the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000661">which is a very large room,</span>
   <span id="f000662">stretching along the entire front of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000663">with three long windows reaching down to the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000664">A chair had been placed close to the central window,</span>
   <span id="f000665">with its back turned towards it.</span>
   <span id="f000666">In this I was asked to sit,</span>
   <span id="f000667">and then Mr.&#160;Rucastle,</span>
   <span id="f000668">walking up and down on the other side of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000669">began to tell me a series of the funniest stories that I have ever listened to.</span>
   <span id="f000670">You cannot imagine how comical he was,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and I laughed until I was quite weary.</span>
   <span id="f000672">Mrs.&#160;Rucastle,</span>
   <span id="f000673">however,</span>
   <span id="f000674">who has evidently no sense of humour,</span>
   <span id="f000675">never so much as smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000676">but sat with her hands in her lap,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and a sad,</span>
   <span id="f000678">anxious look upon her face.</span>
   <span id="f000679">After an hour or so,</span>
   <span id="f000680">Mr.&#160;Rucastle suddenly remarked that it was time to commence the duties of the day,</span>
   <span id="f000681">and that I might change my dress and go to little Edward in the nursery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000682">Two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly similar circumstances.</span>
   <span id="f000683">Again I changed my dress,</span>
   <span id="f000684">again I sat in the window,</span>
   <span id="f000685">and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which my employer had an immense répertoire,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and which he told inimitably.</span>
   <span id="f000687">Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and moving my chair a little sideways,</span>
   <span id="f000689">that my own shadow might not fall upon the page,</span>
   <span id="f000690">he begged me to read aloud to him.</span>
   <span id="f000691">I read for about ten minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000692">beginning in the heart of a chapter,</span>
   <span id="f000693">and then suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000694">in the middle of a sentence,</span>
   <span id="f000695">he ordered me to cease and to change my dress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">You can easily imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000697">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000698">how curious I became as to what the meaning of this extraordinary performance could possibly be.</span>
   <span id="f000699">They were always very careful,</span>
   <span id="f000700">I observed,</span>
   <span id="f000701">to turn my face away from the window,</span>
   <span id="f000702">so that I became consumed with the desire to see what was going on behind my back.</span>
   <span id="f000703">At first it seemed to be impossible,</span>
   <span id="f000704">but I soon devised a means.</span>
   <span id="f000705">My hand-mirror had been broken,</span>
   <span id="f000706">so a happy thought seized me,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and I concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief.</span>
   <span id="f000708">On the next occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000709">in the midst of my laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000710">I put my handkerchief up to my eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000711">and was able with a little management to see all that there was behind me.</span>
   <span id="f000712">I confess that I was disappointed.</span>
   <span id="f000713">There was nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000714">At least that was my first impression.</span>
   <span id="f000715">At the second glance,</span>
   <span id="f000716">however,</span>
   <span id="f000717">I perceived that there was a man standing in the Southampton Road,</span>
   <span id="f000718">a small bearded man in a grey suit,</span>
   <span id="f000719">who seemed to be looking in my direction.</span>
   <span id="f000720">The road is an important highway,</span>
   <span id="f000721">and there are usually people there.</span>
   <span id="f000722">This man,</span>
   <span id="f000723">however,</span>
   <span id="f000724">was leaning against the railings which bordered our field and was looking earnestly up.</span>
   <span id="f000725">I lowered my handkerchief and glanced at Mrs.&#160;Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon me with a most searching gaze.</span>
   <span id="f000726">She said nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000727">but I am convinced that she had divined that I had a mirror in my hand and had seen what was behind me.</span>
   <span id="f000728">She rose at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">’Jephro,’ said she,</span>
   <span id="f000730">’there is an impertinent fellow upon the road there who stares up at Miss Hunter.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">’No friend of yours,</span>
   <span id="f000732">Miss Hunter?’ he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000734">I know no one in these parts.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">’Dear me!</span>
   <span id="f000736">How very impertinent!</span>
   <span id="f000737">Kindly turn round and motion to him to go away.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000738">’Surely it would be better to take no notice.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000740">no,</span>
   <span id="f000741">we should have him loitering here always.</span>
   <span id="f000742">Kindly turn round and wave him away like that.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000743">“I did as I was told,</span>
   <span id="f000744">and at the same instant Mrs.&#160;Rucastle drew down the blind.</span>
   <span id="f000745">That was a week ago,</span>
   <span id="f000746">and from that time I have not sat again in the window,</span>
   <span id="f000747">nor have I worn the blue dress,</span>
   <span id="f000748">nor seen the man in the road.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">“Pray continue,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000750">“Your narrative promises to be a most interesting one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000751">You will find it rather disconnected,</span>
   <span id="f000752">I fear,</span>
   <span id="f000753">and there may prove to be little relation between the different incidents of which I speak.</span>
   <span id="f000754">On the very first day that I was at the Copper Beeches,</span>
   <span id="f000755">Mr.&#160;Rucastle took me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door.</span>
   <span id="f000756">As we approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and the sound as of a large animal moving about.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000758">’Look in here!’ said Mr.&#160;Rucastle,</span>
   <span id="f000759">showing me a slit between two planks.</span>
   <span id="f000760">’Is he not a beauty?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000761">I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000762">and of a vague figure huddled up in the darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000763">’Don’t be frightened,’ said my employer,</span>
   <span id="f000764">laughing at the start which I had given.</span>
   <span id="f000765">’It’s only Carlo,</span>
   <span id="f000766">my mastiff.</span>
   <span id="f000767">I call him mine,</span>
   <span id="f000768">but really old Toller,</span>
   <span id="f000769">my groom,</span>
   <span id="f000770">is the only man who can do anything with him.</span>
   <span id="f000771">We feed him once a day,</span>
   <span id="f000772">and not too much then,</span>
   <span id="f000773">so that he is always as keen as mustard.</span>
   <span id="f000774">Toller lets him loose every night,</span>
   <span id="f000775">and God help the trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon.</span>
   <span id="f000776">For goodness’ sake don’t you ever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night,</span>
   <span id="f000777">for it’s as much as your life is worth.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">The warning was no idle one,</span>
   <span id="f000779">for two nights later I happened to look out of my bedroom window about two o’clock in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000780">It was a beautiful moonlight night,</span>
   <span id="f000781">and the lawn in front of the house was silvered over and almost as bright as day.</span>
   <span id="f000782">I was standing,</span>
   <span id="f000783">rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000784">when I was aware that something was moving under the shadow of the copper beeches.</span>
   <span id="f000785">As it emerged into the moonshine I saw what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000786">It was a giant dog,</span>
   <span id="f000787">as large as a calf,</span>
   <span id="f000788">tawny tinted,</span>
   <span id="f000789">with hanging jowl,</span>
   <span id="f000790">black muzzle,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and huge projecting bones.</span>
   <span id="f000792">It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow upon the other side.</span>
   <span id="f000793">That dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart which I do not think that any burglar could have done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">And now I have a very strange experience to tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000795">I had,</span>
   <span id="f000796">as you know,</span>
   <span id="f000797">cut off my hair in London,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and I had placed it in a great coil at the bottom of my trunk.</span>
   <span id="f000799">One evening,</span>
   <span id="f000800">after the child was in bed,</span>
   <span id="f000801">I began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by rearranging my own little things.</span>
   <span id="f000802">There was an old chest of drawers in the room,</span>
   <span id="f000803">the two upper ones empty and open,</span>
   <span id="f000804">the lower one locked.</span>
   <span id="f000805">I had filled the first two with my linen,</span>
   <span id="f000806">and as I had still much to pack away I was naturally annoyed at not having the use of the third drawer.</span>
   <span id="f000807">It struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight,</span>
   <span id="f000808">so I took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it.</span>
   <span id="f000809">The very first key fitted to perfection,</span>
   <span id="f000810">and I drew the drawer open.</span>
   <span id="f000811">There was only one thing in it,</span>
   <span id="f000812">but I am sure that you would never guess what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000813">It was my coil of hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000814">I took it up and examined it.</span>
   <span id="f000815">It was of the same peculiar tint,</span>
   <span id="f000816">and the same thickness.</span>
   <span id="f000817">But then the impossibility of the thing obtruded itself upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000818">How could my hair have been locked in the drawer?</span>
   <span id="f000819">With trembling hands I undid my trunk,</span>
   <span id="f000820">turned out the contents,</span>
   <span id="f000821">and drew from the bottom my own hair.</span>
   <span id="f000822">I laid the two tresses together,</span>
   <span id="f000823">and I assure you that they were identical.</span>
   <span id="f000824">Was it not extraordinary?</span>
   <span id="f000825">Puzzle as I would,</span>
   <span id="f000826">I could make nothing at all of what it meant.</span>
   <span id="f000827">I returned the strange hair to the drawer,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and I said nothing of the matter to the Rucastles as I felt that I had put myself in the wrong by opening a drawer which they had locked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">I am naturally observant,</span>
   <span id="f000830">as you may have remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000831">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000832">and I soon had a pretty good plan of the whole house in my head.</span>
   <span id="f000833">There was one wing,</span>
   <span id="f000834">however,</span>
   <span id="f000835">which appeared not to be inhabited at all.</span>
   <span id="f000836">A door which faced that which led into the quarters of the Tollers opened into this suite,</span>
   <span id="f000837">but it was invariably locked.</span>
   <span id="f000838">One day,</span>
   <span id="f000839">however,</span>
   <span id="f000840">as I ascended the stair,</span>
   <span id="f000841">I met Mr.&#160;Rucastle coming out through this door,</span>
   <span id="f000842">his keys in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000843">and a look on his face which made him a very different person to the round,</span>
   <span id="f000844">jovial man to whom I was accustomed.</span>
   <span id="f000845">His cheeks were red,</span>
   <span id="f000846">his brow was all crinkled with anger,</span>
   <span id="f000847">and the veins stood out at his temples with passion.</span>
   <span id="f000848">He locked the door and hurried past me without a word or a look.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000849">This aroused my curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000850">so when I went out for a walk in the grounds with my charge,</span>
   <span id="f000851">I strolled round to the side from which I could see the windows of this part of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000852">There were four of them in a row,</span>
   <span id="f000853">three of which were simply dirty,</span>
   <span id="f000854">while the fourth was shuttered up.</span>
   <span id="f000855">They were evidently all deserted.</span>
   <span id="f000856">As I strolled up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000857">glancing at them occasionally,</span>
   <span id="f000858">Mr.&#160;Rucastle came out to me,</span>
   <span id="f000859">looking as merry and jovial as ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000860">’Ah!’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000861">’you must not think me rude if I passed you without a word,</span>
   <span id="f000862">my dear young lady.</span>
   <span id="f000863">I was preoccupied with business matters.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000864">I assured him that I was not offended.</span>
   <span id="f000865">’By the way,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000866">’you seem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there,</span>
   <span id="f000867">and one of them has the shutters up.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000868">He looked surprised and,</span>
   <span id="f000869">as it seemed to me,</span>
   <span id="f000870">a little startled at my remark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000871">’Photography is one of my hobbies,’ said he.</span>
   <span id="f000872">’I have made my dark room up there.</span>
   <span id="f000873">But,</span>
   <span id="f000874">dear me!</span>
   <span id="f000875">what an observant young lady we have come upon.</span>
   <span id="f000876">Who would have believed it?</span>
   <span id="f000877">Who would have ever believed it?’ He spoke in a jesting tone,</span>
   <span id="f000878">but there was no jest in his eyes as he looked at me.</span>
   <span id="f000879">I read suspicion there and annoyance,</span>
   <span id="f000880">but no jest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000881">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000882">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000883">from the moment that I understood that there was something about that suite of rooms which I was not to know,</span>
   <span id="f000884">I was all on fire to go over them.</span>
   <span id="f000885">It was not mere curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000886">though I have my share of that.</span>
   <span id="f000887">It was more a feeling of duty – a feeling that some good might come from my penetrating to this place.</span>
   <span id="f000888">They talk of woman’s instinct;</span>
   <span id="f000889">perhaps it was woman’s instinct which gave me that feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000890">At any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000891">it was there,</span>
   <span id="f000892">and I was keenly on the lookout for any chance to pass the forbidden door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000893">It was only yesterday that the chance came.</span>
   <span id="f000894">I may tell you that,</span>
   <span id="f000895">besides Mr.&#160;Rucastle,</span>
   <span id="f000896">both Toller and his wife find something to do in these deserted rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000897">and I once saw him carrying a large black linen bag with him through the door.</span>
   <span id="f000898">Recently he has been drinking hard,</span>
   <span id="f000899">and yesterday evening he was very drunk;</span>
   <span id="f000900">and when I came upstairs there was the key in the door.</span>
   <span id="f000901">I have no doubt at all that he had left it there.</span>
   <span id="f000902">Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Rucastle were both downstairs,</span>
   <span id="f000903">and the child was with them,</span>
   <span id="f000904">so that I had an admirable opportunity.</span>
   <span id="f000905">I turned the key gently in the lock,</span>
   <span id="f000906">opened the door,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and slipped through.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000908">There was a little passage in front of me,</span>
   <span id="f000909">unpapered and uncarpeted,</span>
   <span id="f000910">which turned at a right angle at the farther end.</span>
   <span id="f000911">Round this corner were three doors in a line,</span>
   <span id="f000912">the first and third of which were open.</span>
   <span id="f000913">They each led into an empty room,</span>
   <span id="f000914">dusty and cheerless,</span>
   <span id="f000915">with two windows in the one and one in the other,</span>
   <span id="f000916">so thick with dirt that the evening light glimmered dimly through them.</span>
   <span id="f000917">The centre door was closed,</span>
   <span id="f000918">and across the outside of it had been fastened one of the broad bars of an iron bed,</span>
   <span id="f000919">padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000920">and fastened at the other with stout cord.</span>
   <span id="f000921">The door itself was locked as well,</span>
   <span id="f000922">and the key was not there.</span>
   <span id="f000923">This barricaded door corresponded clearly with the shuttered window outside,</span>
   <span id="f000924">and yet I could see by the glimmer from beneath it that the room was not in darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000925">Evidently there was a skylight which let in light from above.</span>
   <span id="f000926">As I stood in the passage gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil,</span>
   <span id="f000927">I suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass backward and forward against the little slit of dim light which shone out from under the door.</span>
   <span id="f000928">A mad,</span>
   <span id="f000929">unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight,</span>
   <span id="f000930">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000931">My overstrung nerves failed me suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000932">and I turned and ran – ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me clutching at the skirt of my dress.</span>
   <span id="f000933">I rushed down the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000934">through the door,</span>
   <span id="f000935">and straight into the arms of Mr.&#160;Rucastle,</span>
   <span id="f000936">who was waiting outside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">’So,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000938">smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000939">’it was you,</span>
   <span id="f000940">then.</span>
   <span id="f000941">I thought that it must be when I saw the door open.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000943">I am so frightened!’ I panted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000944">’My dear young lady!</span>
   <span id="f000945">my dear young lady!’ – you cannot think how caressing and soothing his manner was – ’and what has frightened you,</span>
   <span id="f000946">my dear young lady?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000947">But his voice was just a little too coaxing.</span>
   <span id="f000948">He overdid it.</span>
   <span id="f000949">I was keenly on my guard against him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">’I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing,’ I answered.</span>
   <span id="f000951">’But it is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightened and ran out again.</span>
   <span id="f000952">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000953">it is so dreadfully still in there!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000954">’Only that?’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000955">looking at me keenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000956">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f000957">what did you think?’ I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000958">’Why do you think that I lock this door?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">’I am sure that I do not know.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000960">’It is to keep people out who have no business there.</span>
   <span id="f000961">Do you see?’ He was still smiling in the most amiable manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000962">’I am sure if I had known – ’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000963">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000964">then,</span>
   <span id="f000965">you know now.</span>
   <span id="f000966">And if you ever put your foot over that threshold again’ – here in an instant the smile hardened into a grin of rage,</span>
   <span id="f000967">and he glared down at me with the face of a demon – ’I’ll throw you to the mastiff.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000968">“I was so terrified that I do not know what I did.</span>
   <span id="f000969">I suppose that I must have rushed past him into my room.</span>
   <span id="f000970">I remember nothing until I found myself lying on my bed trembling all over.</span>
   <span id="f000971">Then I thought of you,</span>
   <span id="f000972">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000973">I could not live there longer without some advice.</span>
   <span id="f000974">I was frightened of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000975">of the man,</span>
   <span id="f000976">of the woman,</span>
   <span id="f000977">of the servants,</span>
   <span id="f000978">even of the child.</span>
   <span id="f000979">They were all horrible to me.</span>
   <span id="f000980">If I could only bring you down all would be well.</span>
   <span id="f000981">Of course I might have fled from the house,</span>
   <span id="f000982">but my curiosity was almost as strong as my fears.</span>
   <span id="f000983">My mind was soon made up.</span>
   <span id="f000984">I would send you a wire.</span>
   <span id="f000985">I put on my hat and cloak,</span>
   <span id="f000986">went down to the office,</span>
   <span id="f000987">which is about half a mile from the house,</span>
   <span id="f000988">and then returned,</span>
   <span id="f000989">feeling very much easier.</span>
   <span id="f000990">A horrible doubt came into my mind as I approached the door lest the dog might be loose,</span>
   <span id="f000991">but I remembered that Toller had drunk himself into a state of insensibility that evening,</span>
   <span id="f000992">and I knew that he was the only one in the household who had any influence with the savage creature,</span>
   <span id="f000993">or who would venture to set him free.</span>
   <span id="f000994">I slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you.</span>
   <span id="f000995">I had no difficulty in getting leave to come into Winchester this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000996">but I must be back before three o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000997">for Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Rucastle are going on a visit,</span>
   <span id="f000998">and will be away all the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000999">so that I must look after the child.</span>
   <span id="f001000">Now I have told you all my adventures,</span>
   <span id="f001001">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001002">and I should be very glad if you could tell me what it all means,</span>
   <span id="f001003">and,</span>
   <span id="f001004">above all,</span>
   <span id="f001005">what I should do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001006">Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story.</span>
   <span id="f001007">My friend rose now and paced up and down the room,</span>
   <span id="f001008">his hands in his pockets,</span>
   <span id="f001009">and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001010">“Is Toller still drunk?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001011">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f001012">I heard his wife tell Mrs.&#160;Rucastle that she could do nothing with him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">“That is well.</span>
   <span id="f001014">And the Rucastles go out to-night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001015">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001016">“Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001017">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001018">the wine-cellar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001019">“You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave and sensible girl,</span>
   <span id="f001020">Miss Hunter.</span>
   <span id="f001021">Do you think that you could perform one more feat?</span>
   <span id="f001022">I should not ask it of you if I did not think you a quite exceptional woman.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001023">“I will try.</span>
   <span id="f001024">What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001025">“We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f001026">my friend and I.</span>
   <span id="f001027">The Rucastles will be gone by that time,</span>
   <span id="f001028">and Toller will,</span>
   <span id="f001029">we hope,</span>
   <span id="f001030">be incapable.</span>
   <span id="f001031">There only remains Mrs.&#160;Toller,</span>
   <span id="f001032">who might give the alarm.</span>
   <span id="f001033">If you could send her into the cellar on some errand,</span>
   <span id="f001034">and then turn the key upon her,</span>
   <span id="f001035">you would facilitate matters immensely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001036">“I will do it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001037">“Excellent!</span>
   <span id="f001038">We shall then look thoroughly into the affair.</span>
   <span id="f001039">Of course there is only one feasible explanation.</span>
   <span id="f001040">You have been brought there to personate someone,</span>
   <span id="f001041">and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber.</span>
   <span id="f001042">That is obvious.</span>
   <span id="f001043">As to who this prisoner is,</span>
   <span id="f001044">I have no doubt that it is the daughter,</span>
   <span id="f001045">Miss Alice Rucastle,</span>
   <span id="f001046">if I remember right,</span>
   <span id="f001047">who was said to have gone to America.</span>
   <span id="f001048">You were chosen,</span>
   <span id="f001049">doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f001050">as resembling her in height,</span>
   <span id="f001051">figure,</span>
   <span id="f001052">and the colour of your hair.</span>
   <span id="f001053">Hers had been cut off,</span>
   <span id="f001054">very possibly in some illness through which she has passed,</span>
   <span id="f001055">and so,</span>
   <span id="f001056">of course,</span>
   <span id="f001057">yours had to be sacrificed also.</span>
   <span id="f001058">By a curious chance you came upon her tresses.</span>
   <span id="f001059">The man in the road was undoubtedly some friend of hers – possibly her fiancé – and no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f001060">as you wore the girl’s dress and were so like her,</span>
   <span id="f001061">he was convinced from your laughter,</span>
   <span id="f001062">whenever he saw you,</span>
   <span id="f001063">and afterwards from your gesture,</span>
   <span id="f001064">that Miss Rucastle was perfectly happy,</span>
   <span id="f001065">and that she no longer desired his attentions.</span>
   <span id="f001066">The dog is let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate with her.</span>
   <span id="f001067">So much is fairly clear.</span>
   <span id="f001068">The most serious point in the case is the disposition of the child.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001069">“What on earth has that to do with it?” I ejaculated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001070">“My dear Watson,</span>
   <span id="f001071">you as a medical man are continually gaining light as to the tendencies of a child by the study of the parents.</span>
   <span id="f001072">Don’t you see that the converse is equally valid.</span>
   <span id="f001073">I have frequently gained my first real insight into the character of parents by studying their children.</span>
   <span id="f001074">This child’s disposition is abnormally cruel,</span>
   <span id="f001075">merely for cruelty’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f001076">and whether he derives this from his smiling father,</span>
   <span id="f001077">as I should suspect,</span>
   <span id="f001078">or from his mother,</span>
   <span id="f001079">it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in their power.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001080">“I am sure that you are right,</span>
   <span id="f001081">Mr.&#160;Holmes,” cried our client.</span>
   <span id="f001082">“A thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit it.</span>
   <span id="f001083">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001084">let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor creature.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001085">“We must be circumspect,</span>
   <span id="f001086">for we are dealing with a very cunning man.</span>
   <span id="f001087">We can do nothing until seven o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f001088">At that hour we shall be with you,</span>
   <span id="f001089">and it will not be long before we solve the mystery.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001090">We were as good as our word,</span>
   <span id="f001091">for it was just seven when we reached the Copper Beeches,</span>
   <span id="f001092">having put up our trap at a wayside public-house.</span>
   <span id="f001093">The group of trees,</span>
   <span id="f001094">with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in the light of the setting sun,</span>
   <span id="f001095">were sufficient to mark the house even had Miss Hunter not been standing smiling on the door-step.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001096">“Have you managed it?” asked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001097">A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs.</span>
   <span id="f001098">“That is Mrs.&#160;Toller in the cellar,” said she.</span>
   <span id="f001099">“Her husband lies snoring on the kitchen rug.</span>
   <span id="f001100">Here are his keys,</span>
   <span id="f001101">which are the duplicates of Mr.&#160;Rucastle’s.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001102">“You have done well indeed!” cried Holmes with enthusiasm.</span>
   <span id="f001103">“Now lead the way,</span>
   <span id="f001104">and we shall soon see the end of this black business.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001105">We passed up the stair,</span>
   <span id="f001106">unlocked the door,</span>
   <span id="f001107">followed on down a passage,</span>
   <span id="f001108">and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss Hunter had described.</span>
   <span id="f001109">Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar.</span>
   <span id="f001110">Then he tried the various keys in the lock,</span>
   <span id="f001111">but without success.</span>
   <span id="f001112">No sound came from within,</span>
   <span id="f001113">and at the silence Holmes’ face clouded over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001114">“I trust that we are not too late,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f001115">“I think,</span>
   <span id="f001116">Miss Hunter,</span>
   <span id="f001117">that we had better go in without you.</span>
   <span id="f001118">Now,</span>
   <span id="f001119">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f001120">put your shoulder to it,</span>
   <span id="f001121">and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001122">It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength.</span>
   <span id="f001123">Together we rushed into the room.</span>
   <span id="f001124">It was empty.</span>
   <span id="f001125">There was no furniture save a little pallet bed,</span>
   <span id="f001126">a small table,</span>
   <span id="f001127">and a basketful of linen.</span>
   <span id="f001128">The skylight above was open,</span>
   <span id="f001129">and the prisoner gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001130">“There has been some villainy here,” said Holmes;</span>
   <span id="f001131">“this beauty has guessed Miss Hunter’s intentions and has carried his victim off.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001132">“But how?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001133">“Through the skylight.</span>
   <span id="f001134">We shall soon see how he managed it.” He swung himself up onto the roof.</span>
   <span id="f001135">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f001136">yes,” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f001137">“here’s the end of a long light ladder against the eaves.</span>
   <span id="f001138">That is how he did it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001139">“But it is impossible,” said Miss Hunter;</span>
   <span id="f001140">“the ladder was not there when the Rucastles went away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001141">“He has come back and done it.</span>
   <span id="f001142">I tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man.</span>
   <span id="f001143">I should not be very much surprised if this were he whose step I hear now upon the stair.</span>
   <span id="f001144">I think,</span>
   <span id="f001145">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f001146">that it would be as well for you to have your pistol ready.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001147">The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the door of the room,</span>
   <span id="f001148">a very fat and burly man,</span>
   <span id="f001149">with a heavy stick in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f001150">Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of him,</span>
   <span id="f001151">but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001152">“You villain!” said he,</span>
   <span id="f001153">“where’s your daughter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001154">The fat man cast his eyes round,</span>
   <span id="f001155">and then up at the open skylight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001156">“It is for me to ask you that,” he shrieked,</span>
   <span id="f001157">“you thieves!</span>
   <span id="f001158">Spies and thieves!</span>
   <span id="f001159">I have caught you,</span>
   <span id="f001160">have I?</span>
   <span id="f001161">You are in my power.</span>
   <span id="f001162">I’ll serve you!” He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001163">“He’s gone for the dog!” cried Miss Hunter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001164">“I have my revolver,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001165">“Better close the front door,” cried Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001166">and we all rushed down the stairs together.</span>
   <span id="f001167">We had hardly reached the hall when we heard the baying of a hound,</span>
   <span id="f001168">and then a scream of agony,</span>
   <span id="f001169">with a horrible worrying sound which it was dreadful to listen to.</span>
   <span id="f001170">An elderly man with a red face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001171">“My God!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f001172">“Someone has loosed the dog.</span>
   <span id="f001173">It’s not been fed for two days.</span>
   <span id="f001174">Quick,</span>
   <span id="f001175">quick,</span>
   <span id="f001176">or it’ll be too late!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001177">Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house,</span>
   <span id="f001178">with Toller hurrying behind us.</span>
   <span id="f001179">There was the huge famished brute,</span>
   <span id="f001180">its black muzzle buried in Rucastle’s throat,</span>
   <span id="f001181">while he writhed and screamed upon the ground.</span>
   <span id="f001182">Running up,</span>
   <span id="f001183">I blew its brains out,</span>
   <span id="f001184">and it fell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of his neck.</span>
   <span id="f001185">With much labour we separated them and carried him,</span>
   <span id="f001186">living but horribly mangled,</span>
   <span id="f001187">into the house.</span>
   <span id="f001188">We laid him upon the drawing-room sofa,</span>
   <span id="f001189">and having dispatched the sobered Toller to bear the news to his wife,</span>
   <span id="f001190">I did what I could to relieve his pain.</span>
   <span id="f001191">We were all assembled round him when the door opened,</span>
   <span id="f001192">and a tall,</span>
   <span id="f001193">gaunt woman entered the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001194">“Mrs.&#160;Toller!” cried Miss Hunter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001195">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001196">miss.</span>
   <span id="f001197">Mr.&#160;Rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up to you.</span>
   <span id="f001198">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f001199">miss,</span>
   <span id="f001200">it is a pity you didn’t let me know what you were planning,</span>
   <span id="f001201">for I would have told you that your pains were wasted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001202">“Ha!” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001203">looking keenly at her.</span>
   <span id="f001204">“It is clear that Mrs.&#160;Toller knows more about this matter than anyone else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001205">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001206">sir,</span>
   <span id="f001207">I do,</span>
   <span id="f001208">and I am ready enough to tell what I know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001209">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f001210">pray,</span>
   <span id="f001211">sit down,</span>
   <span id="f001212">and let us hear it for there are several points on which I must confess that I am still in the dark.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001213">“I will soon make it clear to you,” said she;</span>
   <span id="f001214">"and I’d have done so before now if I could ha’ got out from the cellar.</span>
   <span id="f001215">If there’s police-court business over this,</span>
   <span id="f001216">you’ll remember that I was the one that stood your friend,</span>
   <span id="f001217">and that I was Miss Alice’s friend too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001218">“She was never happy at home,</span>
   <span id="f001219">Miss Alice wasn’t,</span>
   <span id="f001220">from the time that her father married again.</span>
   <span id="f001221">She was slighted like and had no say in anything,</span>
   <span id="f001222">but it never really became bad for her until after she met Mr.&#160;Fowler at a friend’s house.</span>
   <span id="f001223">As well as I could learn,</span>
   <span id="f001224">Miss Alice had rights of her own by will,</span>
   <span id="f001225">but she was so quiet and patient,</span>
   <span id="f001226">she was,</span>
   <span id="f001227">that she never said a word about them but just left everything in Mr.&#160;Rucastle’s hands.</span>
   <span id="f001228">He knew he was safe with her;</span>
   <span id="f001229">but when there was a chance of a husband coming forward,</span>
   <span id="f001230">who would ask for all that the law would give him,</span>
   <span id="f001231">then her father thought it time to put a stop on it.</span>
   <span id="f001232">He wanted her to sign a paper,</span>
   <span id="f001233">so that whether she married or not,</span>
   <span id="f001234">he could use her money.</span>
   <span id="f001235">When she wouldn’t do it,</span>
   <span id="f001236">he kept on worrying her until she got brain-fever,</span>
   <span id="f001237">and for six weeks was at death’s door.</span>
   <span id="f001238">Then she got better at last,</span>
   <span id="f001239">all worn to a shadow,</span>
   <span id="f001240">and with her beautiful hair cut off;</span>
   <span id="f001241">but that didn’t make no change in her young man,</span>
   <span id="f001242">and he stuck to her as true as man could be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001243">“Ah,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001244">“I think that what you have been good enough to tell us makes the matter fairly clear,</span>
   <span id="f001245">and that I can deduce all that remains.</span>
   <span id="f001246">Mr.&#160;Rucastle then,</span>
   <span id="f001247">I presume,</span>
   <span id="f001248">took to this system of imprisonment?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001249">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001250">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001251">“And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of Mr.&#160;Fowler.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001252">“That was it,</span>
   <span id="f001253">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001254">“But Mr.&#160;Fowler being a persevering man,</span>
   <span id="f001255">as a good seaman should be,</span>
   <span id="f001256">blockaded the house,</span>
   <span id="f001257">and having met you succeeded by certain arguments,</span>
   <span id="f001258">metallic or otherwise,</span>
   <span id="f001259">in convincing you that your interests were the same as his.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001260">“Mr.&#160;Fowler was a very kind-spoken,</span>
   <span id="f001261">free-handed gentleman,” said Mrs.&#160;Toller serenely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001262">“And in this way he managed that your good man should have no want of drink,</span>
   <span id="f001263">and that a ladder should be ready at the moment when your master had gone out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001264">“You have it,</span>
   <span id="f001265">sir,</span>
   <span id="f001266">just as it happened.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001267">“I am sure we owe you an apology,</span>
   <span id="f001268">Mrs.&#160;Toller,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001269">“for you have certainly cleared up everything which puzzled us.</span>
   <span id="f001270">And here comes the country surgeon and Mrs.&#160;Rucastle,</span>
   <span id="f001271">so I think,</span>
   <span id="f001272">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f001273">that we had best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester,</span>
   <span id="f001274">as it seems to me that our locus standi now is rather a questionable one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001275">And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper beeches in front of the door.</span>
   <span id="f001276">Mr.&#160;Rucastle survived,</span>
   <span id="f001277">but was always a broken man,</span>
   <span id="f001278">kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife.</span>
   <span id="f001279">They still live with their old servants,</span>
   <span id="f001280">who probably know so much of Rucastle’s past life that he finds it difficult to part from them.</span>
   <span id="f001281">Mr.&#160;Fowler and Miss Rucastle were married,</span>
   <span id="f001282">by special license,</span>
   <span id="f001283">in Southampton the day after their flight,</span>
   <span id="f001284">and he is now the holder of a government appointment in the island of Mauritius.</span>
   <span id="f001285">As to Miss Violet Hunter,</span>
   <span id="f001286">my friend Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001287">rather to my disappointment,</span>
   <span id="f001288">manifested no further interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre of one of his problems,</span>
   <span id="f001289">and she is now the head of a private school at Walsall,</span>
   <span id="f001290">where I believe that she has met with considerable success.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

