<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Scarlet Stockings</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Chapter I<br />How They Walked into Lennox's Life</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">“Come out for a drive,</span>
   <span id="f000004">Harry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000005">“Too cold.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000006">“Have a game of billiards?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000007">“Too tired.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000008">“Go and call on the Fairchilds?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000009">“Having an unfortunate prejudice against country girls,</span>
   <span id="f000010">I respectfully decline.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">“What will you do,</span>
   <span id="f000012">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">“Nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000014">thank you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">And,</span>
   <span id="f000016">settling himself more luxuriously upon the couch,</span>
   <span id="f000017">Lennox closed his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and appeared to slumber tranquilly.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Kate shook her head,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and stood regarding her brother despondently,</span>
   <span id="f000021">till a sudden idea made her turn toward the window,</span>
   <span id="f000022">exclaiming abruptly,</span>
   <span id="f000023">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">“Scarlet stockings,</span>
   <span id="f000025">Harry!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“Where?” and,</span>
   <span id="f000027">as if the words were a spell to break the deepest day-dream,</span>
   <span id="f000028">Lennox hurried to the window,</span>
   <span id="f000029">with an unusual expression of interest in his listless face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“I thought that would succeed!</span>
   <span id="f000031">She isn’t there,</span>
   <span id="f000032">but I’ve got you up,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and you are not to go down again,” laughed Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000034">taking possession of the sofa.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">“Not a bad manoeuvre.</span>
   <span id="f000036">I don’t mind:</span>
   <span id="f000037">it’s about time for the one interesting event of the day to occur,</span>
   <span id="f000038">so I’ll watch for myself,</span>
   <span id="f000039">thank you,” and Lennox took the easy chair by the window with a shrug and a yawn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“I’m glad any thing does interest you,” said Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000041">petulantly.</span>
   <span id="f000042">“I don’t think it amounts to much,</span>
   <span id="f000043">for,</span>
   <span id="f000044">though you perch yourself at the window every day to see that girl pass,</span>
   <span id="f000045">you don’t care enough about it to ask her name.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“I’ve been waiting to be told.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“It’s Belle Morgan,</span>
   <span id="f000048">the doctor’s daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and my dearest friend.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000051">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000052">she is a blue-belle?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“Don’t try to be witty or sarcastic with her,</span>
   <span id="f000054">for she will beat you at that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">“Not a dumb-belle,</span>
   <span id="f000056">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">“Quite the reverse:</span>
   <span id="f000058">she talks a good deal,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and very well,</span>
   <span id="f000060">too,</span>
   <span id="f000061">when she likes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“She is very pretty:</span>
   <span id="f000063">has anybody the right to call her ’Ma belle’?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“Many would be glad to do so,</span>
   <span id="f000065">but she won’t have any thing to say to them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“A Canterbury belle,</span>
   <span id="f000067">in every sense of the word,</span>
   <span id="f000068">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“She might be,</span>
   <span id="f000070">for all Canterbury loves her;</span>
   <span id="f000071">but she isn’t fashionable,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and has more friends among the poor than among the rich.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000074">I see,</span>
   <span id="f000075">a diving-bell,</span>
   <span id="f000076">who knows how to go down into a sea of troubles,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and bring up the pearls worth having.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“I’ll tell her that,</span>
   <span id="f000079">it will please her.</span>
   <span id="f000080">You are really waking up,</span>
   <span id="f000081">Harry,” and Kate smiled approvingly upon him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">“This page of ’Belle’s Life’ is rather amusing,</span>
   <span id="f000083">so read away,” said Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000084">glancing up-the street,</span>
   <span id="f000085">as if he awaited the appearance of the next edition with pleasure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“There isn’t much to tell;</span>
   <span id="f000087">she is a nice,</span>
   <span id="f000088">bright,</span>
   <span id="f000089">energetic,</span>
   <span id="f000090">warm-hearted dear;</span>
   <span id="f000091">the pride of the doctor’s heart,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and a favorite with every one,</span>
   <span id="f000093">though she is odd.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“How odd?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Does and says what she likes,</span>
   <span id="f000096">is very blunt and honest,</span>
   <span id="f000097">has ideas and principles of her own,</span>
   <span id="f000098">goes to parties in high dresses,</span>
   <span id="f000099">won’t dance round dances,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and wears red stockings,</span>
   <span id="f000101">though Mrs.&#160;Plantagenet says it’s fast.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“Rather a jolly little person,</span>
   <span id="f000103">I fancy.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Why haven’t we met her at some of the tea-fights and muffin-worries we’ve been to lately?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“It may make you angry,</span>
   <span id="f000106">but it will do you good,</span>
   <span id="f000107">so I’ll tell.</span>
   <span id="f000108">She didn’t care enough about seeing the distinguished stranger to come;</span>
   <span id="f000109">that’s the truth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Sensible girl,</span>
   <span id="f000111">to spare herself hours of mortal dulness,</span>
   <span id="f000112">gossip,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and dyspepsia,” was the placid reply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“She has seen you,</span>
   <span id="f000115">though,</span>
   <span id="f000116">at church,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and dawdling about town,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and she called you ’Sir Charles Coldstream,’ on the spot.</span>
   <span id="f000119">How does that suit?” asked Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000120">maliciously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“Not bad;</span>
   <span id="f000122">I rather like that.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Wish she’d call some day,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and stir us up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">“She won’t;</span>
   <span id="f000126">I asked her,</span>
   <span id="f000127">but she said she was very busy,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and told Jessy Tudor she wasn’t fond of peacocks.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“I don’t exactly see the connection.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“Stupid boy!</span>
   <span id="f000131">she meant you,</span>
   <span id="f000132">of course.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000134">I’m peacocks,</span>
   <span id="f000135">am I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">“I don’t wish to be rude,</span>
   <span id="f000137">but I really do think you <em>are</em> vain of your good looks,</span>
   <span id="f000138">elegant accomplishments,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and the impression you make wherever you go.</span>
   <span id="f000140">When it’s worth while,</span>
   <span id="f000141">you exert yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and are altogether fascinating;</span>
   <span id="f000143">but the ’I come-see-and-conquer’ air you put on spoils it all for sensible people.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“It strikes me that Miss Morgan has slightly infected you with her oddity,</span>
   <span id="f000145">as far as bluntness goes.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Fire away!</span>
   <span id="f000147">it’s rather amusing to be abused when one is dying of ennui.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“That’s grateful and complimentary to me,</span>
   <span id="f000149">when I have devoted myself to you ever since you came.</span>
   <span id="f000150">But every thing bores you,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and the only sign of interest you’ve shown is in those absurd red hose.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I <em>should</em> like to know what the charm is,” said Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000153">sharply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“Impossible to say;</span>
   <span id="f000155">accept the fact calmly as I do,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and be grateful that there is one glimpse of color,</span>
   <span id="f000157">life,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and spirit in this aristocratic tomb of a town.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“You are not obliged to stay in it!” fiercely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“Begging your pardon,</span>
   <span id="f000161">my dove,</span>
   <span id="f000162">but I am.</span>
   <span id="f000163">I promised to give you my enlivening society for a month,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and a Lennox keeps his word,</span>
   <span id="f000165">even at the cost of his life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“I’m sorry I asked such a sacrifice;</span>
   <span id="f000167">but I innocently thought that,</span>
   <span id="f000168">after being away for five long years,</span>
   <span id="f000169">you might care to see your orphan sister,” and the dove produced her handkerchief with a plaintive sniff.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000171">my dear creature,</span>
   <span id="f000172">don’t be melodramatic,</span>
   <span id="f000173">I beg of you!” cried her brother,</span>
   <span id="f000174">imploringly.</span>
   <span id="f000175">“I wished to come,</span>
   <span id="f000176">I pined to embrace you,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and,</span>
   <span id="f000178">I give you my word,</span>
   <span id="f000179">I don’t blame you for the stupidity of this confounded place.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“It never was so gay as since you came,</span>
   <span id="f000181">for every one has tried to make it pleasant for you,” cried Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000182">ruffled at his indifference to the hospitable efforts of herself and friends.</span>
   <span id="f000183">“But you don’t care for any of our simple amusements,</span>
   <span id="f000184">because you are spoilt by the flattery,</span>
   <span id="f000185">gayety,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and nonsense of foreign society.</span>
   <span id="f000187">If I didn’t know it was half affectation,</span>
   <span id="f000188">I should be in despair,</span>
   <span id="f000189">you are so <em>blase</em> and absurd.</span>
   <span id="f000190">It’s always the way with men:</span>
   <span id="f000191">if one happens to be handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000192">accomplished,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and talented,</span>
   <span id="f000194">he puts on as many airs,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and is as vain as any silly girl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Don’t you think if you took breath you’d get on faster,</span>
   <span id="f000197">my dear?” asked the imperturbable gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000198">as Kate paused with a gasp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“I know it’s useless for me to talk,</span>
   <span id="f000200">as you don’t care a straw what I say;</span>
   <span id="f000201">but it’s true,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and some day you’ll wish you had done something worth doing all these years.</span>
   <span id="f000203">I was so proud of you,</span>
   <span id="f000204">so fond of you,</span>
   <span id="f000205">that I can’t help being disappointed to find you with no more ambition than to kill time comfortably,</span>
   <span id="f000206">no interest in any thing but your own pleasures,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and only energy enough to amuse yourself with a pair of scarlet stockings.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">Pathetic as poor Kate’s face and voice were,</span>
   <span id="f000209">it was impossible to help laughing at the comical conclusion of her lament.</span>
   <span id="f000210">Lennox tried to hide the smile on his lips by affecting to curl his moustache with care,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and to gaze pensively out as if touched by her appeal.</span>
   <span id="f000212">But he wasn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000213">– oh,</span>
   <span id="f000214">bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000215">no!</span>
   <span id="f000216">she was only his sister,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and,</span>
   <span id="f000218">though she might have talked with the wisdom of Solomon and the eloquence of Demosthenes,</span>
   <span id="f000219">it wouldn’t have done a particle of good.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Sisters do very well to work for one,</span>
   <span id="f000221">to pet one,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and play confidante when one’s love affairs need feminine wit to conduct them;</span>
   <span id="f000223">but when they begin to reprove,</span>
   <span id="f000224">or criticise,</span>
   <span id="f000225">or moralize,</span>
   <span id="f000226">it won’t do,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and can’t be allowed,</span>
   <span id="f000228">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Lennox never snubbed anybody,</span>
   <span id="f000230">but blandly extinguished them by a polite acquiescence in all their affirmations,</span>
   <span id="f000231">for the time being,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and then went on in his own way as if nothing had been said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">“I dare say you are right;</span>
   <span id="f000234">I’ll go and think over your very sensible advice,” and,</span>
   <span id="f000235">as if roused to unwonted exertion by the stings of an accusing conscience,</span>
   <span id="f000236">he left the room abruptly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“I do believe I’ve made an impression at last!</span>
   <span id="f000238">He’s actually gone out to think over what I’ve said.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Dear Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000240">I was sure he had a heart,</span>
   <span id="f000241">if one only knew how to get at it!” and with a sigh of satisfaction Kate went to the window to behold the “Dear Harry” going briskly down the street after a pair of scarlet stockings.</span>
   <span id="f000242">A spark of anger kindled in her eyes as she watched him,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and when he vanished she still stood knitting her brows in deep thought,</span>
   <span id="f000244">for a grand idea was dawning upon her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">It <em>was</em> a dull town;</span>
   <span id="f000246">no one could deny that,</span>
   <span id="f000247">for everybody was so intensely proper and well-born that nobody dared to be jolly.</span>
   <span id="f000248">All the houses were square,</span>
   <span id="f000249">aristocratic mansions with Revolutionary elms in front and spacious coach-houses behind.</span>
   <span id="f000250">The knockers had a supercilious perk to their bronze or brass noses,</span>
   <span id="f000251">the dandelions on the lawns had a highly connected air,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and the very pigs were evidently descended from “our first families.” Stately dinner-parties,</span>
   <span id="f000253">decorous dances,</span>
   <span id="f000254">moral picnics,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and much tea-pot gossiping were the social resources of the place.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000257">the young people flirted,</span>
   <span id="f000258">for that diversion is apparently irradicable even in the “best society,” but it was done with a propriety which was edifying to behold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">One can easily imagine that such a starched state of things would not be particularly attractive to a travelled young gentleman like Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000260">who,</span>
   <span id="f000261">as Kate very truly said,</span>
   <span id="f000262"><em>had</em> been spoilt by the flattery,</span>
   <span id="f000263">luxury,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and gayety of foreign society.</span>
   <span id="f000265">He did his best,</span>
   <span id="f000266">but by the end of the first week ennui claimed him for its own,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and passive endurance was all that was left him.</span>
   <span id="f000268">From perfect despair he was rescued by the scarlet stockings,</span>
   <span id="f000269">which went tripping by one day as he stood at the window,</span>
   <span id="f000270">planning some means of escape.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">A brisk,</span>
   <span id="f000272">blithe-faced girl passed in a gray walking suit with a distracting pair of high-heeled boots and glimpses of scarlet at the ankle.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Modest,</span>
   <span id="f000274">perfectly so,</span>
   <span id="f000275">I assure you,</span>
   <span id="f000276">were the glimpses;</span>
   <span id="f000277">but the feet were so decidedly pretty that one forgot to look at the face appertaining thereunto.</span>
   <span id="f000278">It wasn’t a remarkably lovely face,</span>
   <span id="f000279">but it was a happy,</span>
   <span id="f000280">wholesome one,</span>
   <span id="f000281">with all sorts of good little dimples in cheek and chin,</span>
   <span id="f000282">sunshiny twinkles in the black eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and a decided yet lovable look about the mouth that was quite satisfactory.</span>
   <span id="f000284">A busy,</span>
   <span id="f000285">bustling little body she seemed to be,</span>
   <span id="f000286">for sack-pockets and muff were full of bundles,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and the trim boots tripped briskly over the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000288">as if the girl’s heart were as light as her heels.</span>
   <span id="f000289">Somehow this active,</span>
   <span id="f000290">pleasant figure seemed to wake up the whole street,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and leave a streak of sunshine behind it,</span>
   <span id="f000292">for every one nodded as it passed,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and the primmest faces relaxed into smiles,</span>
   <span id="f000294">which lingered when the girl had gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“Uncommonly pretty feet,</span>
   <span id="f000296">– she walks well,</span>
   <span id="f000297">which American girls seldom do,</span>
   <span id="f000298">– all waddle or prance,</span>
   <span id="f000299">– nice face,</span>
   <span id="f000300">but the boots are French,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and it does my heart good to see them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">Lennox made these observations to himself as the young lady approached,</span>
   <span id="f000303">nodded to Kate at another window,</span>
   <span id="f000304">gave a quick but comprehensive glance at himself and trotted round the corner,</span>
   <span id="f000305">leaving the impression on his mind that a whiff of fresh spring air had blown through the street in spite of the December snow.</span>
   <span id="f000306">He didn’t trouble himself to ask who it was,</span>
   <span id="f000307">but fell into the way of lounging in the bay-window at about three P.M.,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and watching the gray and scarlet figure pass with its blooming cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000309">bright eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and elastic step.</span>
   <span id="f000311">Having nothing else to do,</span>
   <span id="f000312">he took to petting this new whim,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and quite depended on the daily stirring up which the sight of the energetic damsel gave him.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Kate saw it all,</span>
   <span id="f000315">but took no notice till the day of the little tiff above recorded;</span>
   <span id="f000316">after that she was as soft as a summer sea,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and by some clever stroke had Belle Morgan to tea that very week.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">Lennox was one of the best-tempered fellows in the world,</span>
   <span id="f000319">but the “peacocks” did rather nettle him,</span>
   <span id="f000320">because there was some truth in the insinuation;</span>
   <span id="f000321">so he took care to put on no airs or try to be fascinating in the presence of Miss Belle.</span>
   <span id="f000322">In truth,</span>
   <span id="f000323">he soon forgot himself entirely,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and enjoyed her oddities with a relish,</span>
   <span id="f000325">after the prim proprieties of the other young ladies who had simpered and sighed before him.</span>
   <span id="f000326">For the first time in his life,</span>
   <span id="f000327">the “Crusher,” as his male friends called him,</span>
   <span id="f000328">got crushed;</span>
   <span id="f000329">for Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000330">with the subtle skill of a quick-witted,</span>
   <span id="f000331">keen-sighted girl,</span>
   <span id="f000332">soon saw and condemned the elegant affectations which others called foreign polish.</span>
   <span id="f000333">A look,</span>
   <span id="f000334">a word,</span>
   <span id="f000335">a gesture from a pretty woman,</span>
   <span id="f000336">is often more eloquent and impressive than moral essays or semi-occasional twinges of conscience;</span>
   <span id="f000337">and in the presence of one satirical little person Sir Charles Coldstream soon ceased to deserve the name.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">Belle seemed to get over her hurry and to find time for occasional relaxation,</span>
   <span id="f000339">but one never knew in what mood he might find her,</span>
   <span id="f000340">for the weathercock was not more changeable than she.</span>
   <span id="f000341">Lennox liked that,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and found the muffin-worries quite endurable with this <em>sauce piquante</em> to relieve their insipidity.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Presently he discovered that he was suffering for exercise,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and formed the wholesome habit of promenading the town about three P.M.;</span>
   <span id="f000345">Kate said,</span>
   <span id="f000346">to follow the scarlet stockings.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

