<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Scarlet Stockings</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Chapter II<br />Where They Led Him</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">“Whither away,</span>
   <span id="f000004">Miss Morgan?” asked Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000005">as he overtook her one bitter cold day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000006">“I’m taking my constitutional.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000007">“So am I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000008">“With a difference,” and Belle glanced at the blue-nosed,</span>
   <span id="f000009">muffled-up gentleman strolling along beside her with an occasional shiver and shrug.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">“After a winter in the south of France,</span>
   <span id="f000011">one does not find arctic weather like this easy to bear,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000012">with a disgusted air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">“I like it,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and do my five or six miles a day,</span>
   <span id="f000015">which keeps me in what fine ladies call ’rude health,’” answered Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000016">walking him on at a pace which soon made his furs a burden.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">She was a famous pedestrian,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and a little proud of her-powers;</span>
   <span id="f000019">but she outdid all former feats that day,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and got over the ground in gallant style.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Something in her manner put her escort on his mettle;</span>
   <span id="f000022">and his usual lounge was turned into a brisk march,</span>
   <span id="f000023">which set his blood dancing,</span>
   <span id="f000024">face glowing,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and spirits effervescing as they had not done for many a day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“There!</span>
   <span id="f000027">you look more like your real self now,” said Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000028">with the first sign of approval she had ever vouch-safed him,</span>
   <span id="f000029">as he rejoined her after a race to recover her veil,</span>
   <span id="f000030">which the wind whisked away over hedge and ditch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“Are you sure you know what my real self is?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000032">with a touch of the “conquering hero” air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">“Not a doubt of it.</span>
   <span id="f000034">I always know a soldier when I see one,” returned Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000035">decidedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“A soldier!</span>
   <span id="f000037">that’s the last thing I should expect to be accused of,” and Lennox looked both surprised and gratified.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“There’s a flash in your eye and a ring to your voice,</span>
   <span id="f000039">occasionally,</span>
   <span id="f000040">which made me suspect that you had fire and energy enough if you only chose to show it,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and the spirit with which you have just executed the ’Morgan Quickstep’ proves that I was right,” returned Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000042">laughing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“Then I am not altogether a ’peacock’?” said Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000044">significantly,</span>
   <span id="f000045">for during the chat,</span>
   <span id="f000046">which had been as brisk as the walk,</span>
   <span id="f000047">Belle had given his besetting sins several sly hits,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and he couldn’t resist one return shot,</span>
   <span id="f000049">much as her unexpected compliment pleased him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">Poor Belle blushed up to her forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000051">tried to look as if she did not understand,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and gladly hid her confusion behind the recovered veil without a word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">There was a decided display both of the “flash” and the “ring,” as Lennox looked at the suddenly subdued young lady,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and,</span>
   <span id="f000055">quite satisfied with his retaliation,</span>
   <span id="f000056">gave the order,</span>
   <span id="f000057">“Forward,</span>
   <span id="f000058">march!” which brought them to the garden-gate breathless,</span>
   <span id="f000059">but better friends than before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">The next time the young people met,</span>
   <span id="f000061">Belle was in such a hurry that she went round the corner with an abstracted expression which was quite a triumph of art.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Just then,</span>
   <span id="f000063">off tumbled the lid of the basket she carried;</span>
   <span id="f000064">and Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000065">rescuing it from a puddle,</span>
   <span id="f000066">obligingly helped readjust it over a funny collection of bottles,</span>
   <span id="f000067">dishes,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and tidy little rolls of all sorts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“It’s very heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000070">mayn’t I carry it for you?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000071">in an insinuating manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000073">thank you,” was on Belle’s lips;</span>
   <span id="f000074">but,</span>
   <span id="f000075">observing that he was dressed with unusual elegance to pay calls,</span>
   <span id="f000076">she couldn’t resist the temptation of making a beast of burden of him,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and took him at his word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“You may,</span>
   <span id="f000079">if you like.</span>
   <span id="f000080">I’ve got more bundles to take from the store,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and another pair of hands won’t come amiss.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">Lennox lifted his eyebrows,</span>
   <span id="f000083">also the basket;</span>
   <span id="f000084">and they went on again,</span>
   <span id="f000085">Belle very much absorbed in her business,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and her escort wondering where she was going with all that rubbish.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Filling his unoccupied hand with sundry brown paper parcels,</span>
   <span id="f000088">much to the detriment of the light glove that covered it,</span>
   <span id="f000089">Belle paraded him down the main street before the windows of the most aristocratic mansions,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and then dived into a dirty back-lane,</span>
   <span id="f000091">where the want and misery of the town was decorously kept out of sight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“You don’t mind scarlet fever,</span>
   <span id="f000093">I suppose?” observed Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000094">as they approached the unsavory residence of Biddy O’Brien.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000096">I’m not exactly partial to it,” said Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000097">rather taken aback.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“You needn’t go in if you are afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000099">or speak to me afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000100">so no harm will be done – except to your gloves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“Why do <em>you</em> come here,</span>
   <span id="f000102">if I may ask?</span>
   <span id="f000103">It isn’t the sort of amusement I should recommend,” he began,</span>
   <span id="f000104">evidently disapproving of the step.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000106">I’m used to it,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and like to play nurse where father plays doctor.</span>
   <span id="f000108">I’m fond of children and Mrs.&#160;O’Brien’s are little dears,” returned Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000109">briskly,</span>
   <span id="f000110">threading her way between ash-heaps and mud-puddles as if bound to a festive scene.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“Judging from the row in there,</span>
   <span id="f000112">I should infer that Mrs.&#160;O’Brien had quite a herd of little dears.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“Only nine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“And all sick?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“More or less.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“By Jove!</span>
   <span id="f000117">it’s perfectly heroic in you to visit this hole in spite of dirt,</span>
   <span id="f000118">noise,</span>
   <span id="f000119">fragrance,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and infection,” cried Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000121">who devoutly wished that the sense of smell if not of hearing were temporarily denied him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“Bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000123">it’s the sort of thing I enjoy,</span>
   <span id="f000124">for there’s no nonsense here;</span>
   <span id="f000125">the work you do is pleasant if you do it heartily,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and the thanks you get are worth having,</span>
   <span id="f000127">I assure you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">She put out her hand to relieve him of the basket,</span>
   <span id="f000129">but he gave it an approving little shake,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and said briefly,</span>
   <span id="f000131">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">“Not yet,</span>
   <span id="f000133">I’m coming in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">It’s all very well to rhapsodize about the exquisite pleasure of doing good,</span>
   <span id="f000135">to give carelessly of one’s abundance,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and enjoy the delusion of having remembered the poor.</span>
   <span id="f000137">But it is a cheap charity,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and never brings the genuine satisfaction which those know who give their mite with heart as well as hand,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and truly love their neighbor as themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Lennox had seen much fashionable benevolence,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and laughed at it even while he imitated it,</span>
   <span id="f000142">giving generously when it wasn’t inconvenient.</span>
   <span id="f000143">But this was a new sort of thing entirely;</span>
   <span id="f000144">and in spite of the dirt,</span>
   <span id="f000145">the noise,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and the smells,</span>
   <span id="f000147">he forgot the fever,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and was glad he came when poor Mrs.&#160;O’Brien turned from her sick babies,</span>
   <span id="f000149">exclaiming,</span>
   <span id="f000150">with Irish fervor at sight of Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000151">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“The Lord love ye,</span>
   <span id="f000153">darlin,</span>
   <span id="f000154">for remimberin us when ivery one,</span>
   <span id="f000155">barrin’ the doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and the praste,</span>
   <span id="f000157">turns the cowld shouldther in our throuble!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">“Now if you really want to help,</span>
   <span id="f000159">just keep this child quiet while I see to the sickest ones,” said Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000160">dumping a stout infant on to his knee,</span>
   <span id="f000161">thrusting an orange into his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and leaving him aghast while she unpacked her little messes,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and comforted the maternal bird.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">With the calmness of desperation,</span>
   <span id="f000165">her aid-de-camp put down his best beaver on the rich soil which covered the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000166">pocketed his gloves,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and,</span>
   <span id="f000168">making a bib of his cambric handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000169">gagged young Pat deliciously with bits of orange whenever he opened his mouth to roar.</span>
   <span id="f000170">At her first leisure moment,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Belle glanced at him to see how he was getting on,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and found him so solemnly absorbed in his task that she went off into a burst of such infectious merriment that the O’Briens,</span>
   <span id="f000173">sick and well,</span>
   <span id="f000174">joined in it to a man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“Good fun,</span>
   <span id="f000176">isn’t it?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000177">turning down her cuffs when the last spoonful of gruel was administered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“I’ve no doubt of it,</span>
   <span id="f000179">when one is used to the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000180">It comes a little hard at first,</span>
   <span id="f000181">you know,” returned Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000182">wiping his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000183">with a long breath,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and seizing his hat as if quite ready to tear himself away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“You’ve done very well for a beginner;</span>
   <span id="f000186">so kiss the baby and come home,” said Belle approvingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000188">thank you,” muttered Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000189">trying to detach the bedaubed innocent.</span>
   <span id="f000190">But little Pat had a grateful heart,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and,</span>
   <span id="f000192">falling upon his new nurse’s neck with a rapturous crow,</span>
   <span id="f000193">clung there like a burr.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“Take him off!</span>
   <span id="f000195">Let me out of this!</span>
   <span id="f000196">He’s one too many for me!” cried the wretched young man in comic despair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">Being freed with much laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000198">he turned and fled,</span>
   <span id="f000199">followed by a shower of blessings from Mrs.&#160;O’Brien.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">As they came up again into the pleasant highways,</span>
   <span id="f000201">Lennox said,</span>
   <span id="f000202">awkwardly for him,</span>
   <span id="f000203">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“The thanks of the poor <em>are</em> excellent things to have,</span>
   <span id="f000205">but I think I’d rather receive them by proxy.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Will you kindly spend this for me in making that poor soul comfortable?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">But Belle wouldn’t take what he offered her;</span>
   <span id="f000208">she put it back,</span>
   <span id="f000209">saying earnestly,</span>
   <span id="f000210">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“Give it yourself;</span>
   <span id="f000212">one can’t buy blessings,</span>
   <span id="f000213">– they must be <em>earned</em> or they are not worth having.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Try it,</span>
   <span id="f000215">please,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and,</span>
   <span id="f000217">if you find it a failure,</span>
   <span id="f000218">then I’ll gladly be your almoner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">There was a significance in her words which he could not fail to understand.</span>
   <span id="f000220">He neither shrugged,</span>
   <span id="f000221">drawled,</span>
   <span id="f000222">nor sauntered now,</span>
   <span id="f000223">but gave her a look in which respect and self-reproach were mingled,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and left her,</span>
   <span id="f000225">simply saying,</span>
   <span id="f000226">“I’ll try it,</span>
   <span id="f000227">Miss Morgan.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">“Now isn’t she odd?” whispered Kate to her brother,</span>
   <span id="f000229">as Belle appeared at a little dance at Mrs.&#160;Plantagenet’s in a high-necked dress,</span>
   <span id="f000230">knitting away on an army-sock,</span>
   <span id="f000231">as she greeted the friends who crowded round her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“Charmingly so.</span>
   <span id="f000233">Why don’t you do that sort of thing when you can?” answered her brother,</span>
   <span id="f000234">glancing at her thin,</span>
   <span id="f000235">bare shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and hands rendered nearly useless by the tightness of the gloves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“Gracious,</span>
   <span id="f000238">no!</span>
   <span id="f000239">It’s natural to her to do so,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and she carries it off well;</span>
   <span id="f000241">I couldn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000242">therefore I don’t try,</span>
   <span id="f000243">though I admire it in her.</span>
   <span id="f000244">Go and ask her to dance,</span>
   <span id="f000245">before she is engaged.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“She doesn’t dance round dances,</span>
   <span id="f000247">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“She is dreadfully prim about some things,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and so free and easy about others:</span>
   <span id="f000250">I can’t understand it,</span>
   <span id="f000251">do you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000253">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000254">I think I do.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Here’s Forbes coming for you,</span>
   <span id="f000256">I’ll go and entertain Belle by a quarrel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">He found her in a recess out of the way of the rushing and romping,</span>
   <span id="f000258">busy with her work,</span>
   <span id="f000259">yet evidently glad to be amused.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“I admire your adherence to principle,</span>
   <span id="f000261">Miss Belle;</span>
   <span id="f000262">but don’t you find it a little hard to sit still while your friends are enjoying themselves?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000263">sinking luxuriously into the lounging chair beside her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000265">very,” answered Belle with characteristic candor.</span>
   <span id="f000266">“But father does not approve of that sort of exercise,</span>
   <span id="f000267">so I console myself with something useful till my chance comes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“Your work can’t exactly be called ornamental,” said Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000269">looking at the big sock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">“Don’t laugh at it,</span>
   <span id="f000271">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000272">it is for the foot of the brave fellow who is going to fight for me and his country.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“Happy fellow!</span>
   <span id="f000274">May I ask who he is?” and Lennox sat up with an air of interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“My substitute:</span>
   <span id="f000276">I don’t know his name,</span>
   <span id="f000277">for father has not got him yet;</span>
   <span id="f000278">but I’m making socks,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and towels,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and a comfort-bag for him,</span>
   <span id="f000281">so that when found he may be off at once.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“You really mean it?” cried Lennox.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">“Of course I do;</span>
   <span id="f000284">I can’t go myself,</span>
   <span id="f000285">but I <em>can</em> buy a pair of strong arms to fight for me,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and I intend to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000287">I only hope he’ll have the right sort of courage,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and be a credit to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“What do you call the right sort of courage?” asked Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000290">soberly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“That which makes a man ready and glad to live or die for a principle.</span>
   <span id="f000292">There’s a chance for heroes now,</span>
   <span id="f000293">if there ever was.</span>
   <span id="f000294">When do you join your regiment?” she added,</span>
   <span id="f000295">abruptly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“Haven’t the least idea,” and Lennox subsided again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“But you intend to do so,</span>
   <span id="f000298">of course?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“Why should I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">Belle dropped her work.</span>
   <span id="f000301">“Why should you?</span>
   <span id="f000302">What a question!</span>
   <span id="f000303">Because you have health,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and strength,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and courage,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and money to help on the good cause,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and every man should give his best,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and not <em>dare</em> to stay at home when he is needed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“You forget that I am an Englishman,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and we rather prefer to be strictly neutral just now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“You are only half English;</span>
   <span id="f000312">and for your mother’s sake you should be proud and glad to fight for the North,” cried Belle warmly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“I don’t remember my mother,</span>
   <span id="f000314">– ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“That’s evident!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000317">I was about to add,</span>
   <span id="f000318">I’ve no objection to lend a hand if it isn’t too much trouble to get off,” said Lennox indifferently,</span>
   <span id="f000319">for he liked to see Belle’s color rise,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and her eyes kindle while he provoked her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“Do you expect to go South in a bandbox?</span>
   <span id="f000322">You’d better join one of the kid-glove regiments;</span>
   <span id="f000323">they say the dandies fight well when the time comes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">“I’ve been away so long,</span>
   <span id="f000325">the patriotic fever hasn’t seized me yet;</span>
   <span id="f000326">and,</span>
   <span id="f000327">as the quarrel is none of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000328">I think perhaps I’d better take care of Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and let you fight it out among yourselves.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Here’s the Lancers,</span>
   <span id="f000331">may I have the honor?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">But Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000333">being very angry at this lukewarmness,</span>
   <span id="f000334">answered in her bluntest manner,</span>
   <span id="f000335">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“Having reminded me that you are a ’strictly neutral’ Englishman,</span>
   <span id="f000337">you must excuse me if I decline;</span>
   <span id="f000338"><em>I</em> dance only with loyal Americans,” and,</span>
   <span id="f000339">rolling up her work with a defiant flourish,</span>
   <span id="f000340">she walked away,</span>
   <span id="f000341">leaving him to lament his loss and wonder how he could retrieve it.</span>
   <span id="f000342">She did not speak to him again till he stood in the hall waiting for Kate;</span>
   <span id="f000343">then Belle came down in a charming little red hood,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and going straight up to him with her hand out,</span>
   <span id="f000345">a repentant look and a friendly smile,</span>
   <span id="f000346">said frankly,</span>
   <span id="f000347">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“I was very rude;</span>
   <span id="f000349">I want to beg pardon of the English,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and shake hands with the American,</span>
   <span id="f000351">half.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">So peace was declared,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and lasted unbroken for the remaining week of his stay,</span>
   <span id="f000354">when he proposed to take Kate to the city for a little gayety.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Miss Morgan openly approved the plan,</span>
   <span id="f000356">but secretly felt as if the town was about to be depopulated,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and tried to hide her melancholy in her substitute’s socks.</span>
   <span id="f000358">They were not large enough,</span>
   <span id="f000359">however,</span>
   <span id="f000360">to absorb it all;</span>
   <span id="f000361">and,</span>
   <span id="f000362">when Lennox went to make his adieu,</span>
   <span id="f000363">it was perfectly evident that the Doctor’s Belle was out of tune.</span>
   <span id="f000364">The young gentleman basely exulted over this,</span>
   <span id="f000365">till she gave him something else to think about by saying gravely:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“Before you go,</span>
   <span id="f000367">I feel as if I ought to tell you something,</span>
   <span id="f000368">since Kate won’t.</span>
   <span id="f000369">If you are offended about it please don’t blame her;</span>
   <span id="f000370">she meant it kindly,</span>
   <span id="f000371">and so did I.” Belle paused as if it was not an easy thing to tell and then went on quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000372">with her eyes upon her work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“Three weeks ago Kate asked me to help her in a little plot;</span>
   <span id="f000374">and I consented,</span>
   <span id="f000375">for the fun of the thing She wanted something to amuse and stir you up,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and,</span>
   <span id="f000377">finding that my queer ways diverted you,</span>
   <span id="f000378">she begged me to be neighborly and let you do what you liked.</span>
   <span id="f000379">I didn’t care particularly about amusing you,</span>
   <span id="f000380">but I did think you needed rousing;</span>
   <span id="f000381">so for her sake I tried to do it,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and you very good-naturedly bore my lecturing.</span>
   <span id="f000383">I don’t like deceit of any kind,</span>
   <span id="f000384">so I confess;</span>
   <span id="f000385">but I can’t say I’m sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000386">for I really think you are none the worse for the teasing and teaching you’ve had.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">Belle didn’t see him flush and frown as she made her confession,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and when she looked up he only said,</span>
   <span id="f000389">half gratefully,</span>
   <span id="f000390">half reproachfully,</span>
   <span id="f000391">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“I’m a good deal the better for it,</span>
   <span id="f000393">I dare say,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and ought to be very thankful for your friendly exertions.</span>
   <span id="f000395">But two against one was hardly fair,</span>
   <span id="f000396">now,</span>
   <span id="f000397">was it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000399">it was sly and sinful in the highest degree,</span>
   <span id="f000400">but we did it for your good;</span>
   <span id="f000401">so I know you’ll forgive us,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and as a proof of it sing one or two of my favorites for the last time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">“You don’t deserve any favor;</span>
   <span id="f000404">but I’ll do it,</span>
   <span id="f000405">to show you how much more magnanimous men are than women.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">Not at all loth to improve his advantages,</span>
   <span id="f000407">Lennox warbled his most melting lays <em>con amore</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000408">watching,</span>
   <span id="f000409">as he sung,</span>
   <span id="f000410">for any sign of sentiment in the girlish face opposite.</span>
   <span id="f000411">But Belle wouldn’t be sentimental;</span>
   <span id="f000412">and sat rattling her knitting-needles industriously,</span>
   <span id="f000413">though “The Harbor Bar was moaning” dolefully,</span>
   <span id="f000414">though “Douglas” was touchingly “tender and true,” and the “Wind of the Summer Night” sighed romantically through the sitting-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“Much obliged.</span>
   <span id="f000416">Must you go?” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000417">without a sign of soft confusion as he rose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“I must;</span>
   <span id="f000419">but I shall come again before I leave the country.</span>
   <span id="f000420">May I?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000421">holding her hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">“If you come in a uniform.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“Good night,</span>
   <span id="f000424">Belle,” tenderly.</span>
   <span id="f000425">– “Good-by,</span>
   <span id="f000426">Sir Charles,” with a wicked twinkle of the eye,</span>
   <span id="f000427">which lasted till he closed the hall-door,</span>
   <span id="f000428">growling irefully,</span>
   <span id="f000429">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">“I thought I’d had some experience,</span>
   <span id="f000431">but one never <em>can</em> understand these women!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">Canterbury did become a desert to Belle after her dear friend had gone</span>
   <span id="f000433">(of course the dear friend’s brother had nothing to do with the desolation);</span>
   <span id="f000434">and as the weeks dragged slowly Belle took to reading poetry,</span>
   <span id="f000435">practising plaintive ballads,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and dawdling over her work at a certain window which commanded a view of the railway station and hotel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“You’re dull,</span>
   <span id="f000438">my dear;</span>
   <span id="f000439">run up to town with me to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and see your young man off,” said the Doctor one evening,</span>
   <span id="f000441">as Belle sat musing with a half-mended red stocking in her hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">“My young man?” she ejaculated,</span>
   <span id="f000443">turning with a start and a blush.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“Your substitute,</span>
   <span id="f000445">child.</span>
   <span id="f000446">Stephens attended to the business for me,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and he’s off to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000448">I began to tell you about the fellow last week,</span>
   <span id="f000449">but you were wool-gathering,</span>
   <span id="f000450">so I stopped.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000452">I remember,</span>
   <span id="f000453">it was all very nice.</span>
   <span id="f000454">Goes to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000455">does he?</span>
   <span id="f000456">I’d like to see him;</span>
   <span id="f000457">but do you think we can both leave home at once?</span>
   <span id="f000458">Some one might come you know,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and I fancy it’s going to snow,” said Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000460">putting her face behind the curtain to inspect the weather.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“You’d better go,</span>
   <span id="f000462">the trip will do you good;</span>
   <span id="f000463">you can take your things to Tom Jones,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and see Kate on the way:</span>
   <span id="f000465">she’s got back from Philadelphia.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">“Has she?</span>
   <span id="f000467">I’ll go,</span>
   <span id="f000468">then;</span>
   <span id="f000469">it will please her,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and I do need change.</span>
   <span id="f000471">You are a dear,</span>
   <span id="f000472">to think of it;” and,</span>
   <span id="f000473">giving her father a hasty glimpse of a suddenly excited countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000474">Belle slipped out of the room to prepare her best array,</span>
   <span id="f000475">with a most reckless disregard of the impending storm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">It did not snow on the morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and up they went to see the – th regiment off.</span>
   <span id="f000478">Belle did not see “her young man,” however,</span>
   <span id="f000479">for while her father went to carry him her comforts and a patriotic nosegay of red and white flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000480">tied up with a smart blue ribbon,</span>
   <span id="f000481">she called on Kate.</span>
   <span id="f000482">But Miss Lennox was engaged,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and sent an urgent request that her friend would call in the afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000484">Much disappointed and a little hurt,</span>
   <span id="f000485">Belle then devoted herself to the departing regiment,</span>
   <span id="f000486">wishing she was going with it,</span>
   <span id="f000487">for she felt in a warlike mood.</span>
   <span id="f000488">It was past noon when a burst of martial music,</span>
   <span id="f000489">the measured tramp of many feet,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and enthusiastic cheers announced that “the boys” were coming.</span>
   <span id="f000491">From the balcony where she stood with her father,</span>
   <span id="f000492">Belle looked down upon the living stream that flowed by like a broad river,</span>
   <span id="f000493">with a steely glitter above the blue.</span>
   <span id="f000494">All her petty troubles vanished at the sight;</span>
   <span id="f000495">her heart beat high,</span>
   <span id="f000496">her face glowed,</span>
   <span id="f000497">her eyes filled,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and she waved her handkerchief as zealously as if she had a dozen friends and lovers in the ranks below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“Here comes your man;</span>
   <span id="f000500">I told him to stick the posy where it would catch my eye,</span>
   <span id="f000501">so I could point him out to you.</span>
   <span id="f000502">Look,</span>
   <span id="f000503">it’s the tall fellow at the end of the front line,” said the Doctor in an excited tone,</span>
   <span id="f000504">as he pointed and beckoned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">Belle looked and gave a little cry,</span>
   <span id="f000506">for there,</span>
   <span id="f000507">in a private’s uniform,</span>
   <span id="f000508">with her nosegay at his button-hole,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and on his face a smile she never forgot,</span>
   <span id="f000510">was Lennox!</span>
   <span id="f000511">For an instant she stood staring at him as pale and startled as if he were a ghost;</span>
   <span id="f000512">then the color rushed into her face,</span>
   <span id="f000513">she kissed both hands to him,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and cried bravely,</span>
   <span id="f000515">“Good-by,</span>
   <span id="f000516">good-by;</span>
   <span id="f000517">God bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000518">Harry!” and immediately laid her head on her father’s shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000519">sobbing as if her heart was broken.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">When she looked up,</span>
   <span id="f000521">her substitute was lost in the undulating mass below,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and for her the spectacle was over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“Was it really he?</span>
   <span id="f000524">Why wasn’t I told?</span>
   <span id="f000525">What does it all mean?” she demanded,</span>
   <span id="f000526">looking bewildered,</span>
   <span id="f000527">grieved,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and ashamed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">“He’s really gone,</span>
   <span id="f000530">my dear.</span>
   <span id="f000531">It’s a surprise of his,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and I was bound over to silence.</span>
   <span id="f000533">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000534">this will explain the joke,</span>
   <span id="f000535">I suppose,” and the Doctor handed her a cocked-hat note,</span>
   <span id="f000536">done up like a military order.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000537">A Roland for your Oliver,</span>
   <span id="f000538">Mademoiselle!</span>
   <span id="f000539">I came home for the<br /></span>
   <span id="f000540">express purpose of enlisting,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and only delayed a month on<br /></span>
   <span id="f000542">Kate’s account.</span>
   <span id="f000543">If I ever return,</span>
   <span id="f000544">I will receive my bounty at<br /></span>
   <span id="f000545">your hands.</span>
   <span id="f000546">Till then please comfort Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000547">think as kindly as<br /></span>
   <span id="f000548">you can of ’Sir Charles,’ and sometimes pray a little prayer<br /></span>
   <span id="f000549">for</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">Your unworthy</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">“Substitute.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000552">Belle looked very pale and meek when she put the note in her pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000553">but she only said,</span>
   <span id="f000554">“I must go and comfort Kate;” and the Doctor gladly obeyed,</span>
   <span id="f000555">feeling that the joke was more serious than he had imagined.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">The moment her friend appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000557">Miss Lennox turned on her tears,</span>
   <span id="f000558">and “played away,” pouring forth lamentations,</span>
   <span id="f000559">reproaches,</span>
   <span id="f000560">and regrets in a steady stream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">“I hope you are satisfied now,</span>
   <span id="f000562">you cruel girl!” she began,</span>
   <span id="f000563">refusing to be kissed.</span>
   <span id="f000564">“You’ve sent him off with a broken heart to rush into danger and be shot,</span>
   <span id="f000565">or get his arms and legs spoiled.</span>
   <span id="f000566">You know he loved you and wanted to tell you so,</span>
   <span id="f000567">but you wouldn’t let him;</span>
   <span id="f000568">and now you’ve driven him away,</span>
   <span id="f000569">and he’s gone as an insignificant private with his head shaved,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and a heavy knapsack breaking his back,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and a horrid gun that will be sure to explode:</span>
   <span id="f000572">and he <em>would</em> wear those immense blue socks you sent,</span>
   <span id="f000573">for he adores you,</span>
   <span id="f000574">and you only teased and laughed at him,</span>
   <span id="f000575">my poor,</span>
   <span id="f000576">deluded,</span>
   <span id="f000577">deserted brother!” And,</span>
   <span id="f000578">quite overwhelmed by the afflicting picture,</span>
   <span id="f000579">Kate lifted up her voice and wept again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“I <em>am</em> satisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000581">for he’s done what I hoped he would;</span>
   <span id="f000582">and he’s none the less a gentleman because he’s a private and wears my socks.</span>
   <span id="f000583">I pray they will keep him safe,</span>
   <span id="f000584">and bring him home to us when he has done his duty like a man,</span>
   <span id="f000585">as I know he will.</span>
   <span id="f000586">I’m proud of my brave substitute,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and I’ll try to be worthy of him,” cried Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000588">kindling beautifully as she looked out into the wintry sunshine with a new softness in the eyes that still seemed watching that blue-coated figure marching away to danger,</span>
   <span id="f000589">perhaps death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“It’s ill playing with edged tools;</span>
   <span id="f000591">we meant to amuse him,</span>
   <span id="f000592">and we may have sent him to destruction.</span>
   <span id="f000593">I’ll never forgive you for your part,</span>
   <span id="f000594">never!” said Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000595">with the charming inconsistency of her sex.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">But Belle turned away her wrath by a soft answer,</span>
   <span id="f000597">as she whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000598">with a tender choke in her voice,</span>
   <span id="f000599">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">“We both loved him,</span>
   <span id="f000601">dear;</span>
   <span id="f000602">let’s comfort one another.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

