<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Scarlet Stockings</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Chapter III<br />What Became of Them</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">Private Lennox certainly <em>had</em> chosen pretty hard work,</span>
   <span id="f000004">for the – th was not a “kid-glove” regiment by any means;</span>
   <span id="f000005">fighting in mid-winter was not exactly festive,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and camps do not abound in beds of roses even at the best of times.</span>
   <span id="f000007">But Belle was right in saying she knew a soldier when she saw him,</span>
   <span id="f000008">for,</span>
   <span id="f000009">now that he was thoroughly waked up,</span>
   <span id="f000010">he proved that there was plenty of courage,</span>
   <span id="f000011">energy,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and endurance in him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">It is my private opinion that he might now and then have slightly regretted the step he had taken,</span>
   <span id="f000014">had it not been for certain recollections of a sarcastic tongue and a pair of keen eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000015">not to mention the influence of one of the most potent rulers of the human heart;</span>
   <span id="f000016">namely,</span>
   <span id="f000017">the desire to prove himself worthy the respect,</span>
   <span id="f000018">if nothing more,</span>
   <span id="f000019">of somebody at home.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Belle’s socks did seem to keep him safe,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and lead him straight in the narrow path of duty.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Belle’s comfort-bag was such in very truth,</span>
   <span id="f000023">for not one of the stout needles on the tri-colored cushion but what seemed to wink its eye approvingly at him;</span>
   <span id="f000024">not one of the tidy balls of thread that did not remind him of the little hand he coveted,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and the impracticable scissors were cherished as a good omen,</span>
   <span id="f000026">though he felt that the sharpest steel that ever came from Sheffield couldn’t cut his love in twain.</span>
   <span id="f000027">And Belle’s lessons,</span>
   <span id="f000028">short as they had been,</span>
   <span id="f000029">were not forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000030">but seemed to have been taken up by a sterner mistress,</span>
   <span id="f000031">whose rewards were greater,</span>
   <span id="f000032">if not so sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000033">as those the girl could give.</span>
   <span id="f000034">There was plenty of exercise nowadays,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and of hard work that left many a tired head asleep for ever under the snow.</span>
   <span id="f000036">There were many opportunities for diving “into the depths and bringing up pearls worth having” by acts of kindness among the weak,</span>
   <span id="f000037">the wicked,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and the suffering all about him.</span>
   <span id="f000039">He learned now how to earn,</span>
   <span id="f000040">not buy,</span>
   <span id="f000041">the thanks of the poor,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and unconsciously proved in the truest way that a private <em>could</em> be a gentleman.</span>
   <span id="f000043">But best of all was the steadfast purpose “to live and die for a principle,” which grew and strengthened with each month of bitter hardship,</span>
   <span id="f000044">bloody strife,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and dearly bought success.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Life grew earnest to him,</span>
   <span id="f000047">time seemed precious,</span>
   <span id="f000048">self was forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and all that was best and bravest rallied round the flag on which his heart inscribed the motto,</span>
   <span id="f000050">“Love and Liberty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">Praise and honor he could not fail to win,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and had he never gone back to claim his bounty he would have earned the great “Well done,” for he kept his oath loyally,</span>
   <span id="f000053">did his duty manfully,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and loved his lady faithfully,</span>
   <span id="f000055">like a knight of the chivalrous times.</span>
   <span id="f000056">He knew nothing of her secret,</span>
   <span id="f000057">but wore her blue ribbon like an order,</span>
   <span id="f000058">never went into battle without first,</span>
   <span id="f000059">like many another poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000060">kissing something which he carried next his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and with each day of absence felt himself a better man,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and braver soldier,</span>
   <span id="f000063">for the fondly foolish romance he had woven about the scarlet stockings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">Belle and Kate did comfort one another,</span>
   <span id="f000065">not only with tears and kisses,</span>
   <span id="f000066">but with womanly work which kept hearts happy and hands busy.</span>
   <span id="f000067">How Belle bribed her to silence will always remain the ninth wonder of the world;</span>
   <span id="f000068">but,</span>
   <span id="f000069">though reams of paper passed between brother and sister during those twelve months,</span>
   <span id="f000070">not a hint was dropped on one side in reply to artful inquiries from the other.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Belle never told her love in words;</span>
   <span id="f000072">but she stowed away an unlimited quantity of the article in the big boxes that went to gladden the eyes and – alas for romance!</span>
   <span id="f000073">– the stomach of Private Lennox.</span>
   <span id="f000074">If pickles could typify passion,</span>
   <span id="f000075">cigars prove constancy,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and gingerbread reveal the longings of the soul,</span>
   <span id="f000077">then would the above-mentioned gentleman have been the happiest of lovers.</span>
   <span id="f000078">But camp-life had doubtless dulled his finer intuitions:</span>
   <span id="f000079">for he failed to understand the new language of love,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and gave away these tender tokens with lavish prodigality.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Concealment preyed a trifle on Belle’s damask cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000082">it must be confessed,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and the keen eyes grew softer with the secret tears that sometimes dimmed them;</span>
   <span id="f000084">the sharp tongue seldom did mischief now,</span>
   <span id="f000085">but uttered kindly words to every one,</span>
   <span id="f000086">as if doing penance for the past;</span>
   <span id="f000087">and a sweet seriousness toned down the lively spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000088">which was learning many things in the sleepless nights that followed when the “little prayer” for the beloved substitute was done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“I’ll wait and see if he is all I hope he will be,</span>
   <span id="f000090">before I let him know.</span>
   <span id="f000091">I shall read the truth the instant I see him,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and if he has stood the test I’ll run into his arms and tell him every thing,” she said to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000093">with delicious thrills at the idea;</span>
   <span id="f000094">but you may be sure she did nothing of the sort when the time came.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">A rumor flew through the town one day that Lennox had arrived;</span>
   <span id="f000096">upon receipt of which joyful tidings,</span>
   <span id="f000097">Belle had a panic and hid herself in the garret.</span>
   <span id="f000098">But when she had quaked,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and cried,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and peeped,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and listened for an hour or two,</span>
   <span id="f000102">finding that no one came to hunt her up,</span>
   <span id="f000103">she composed her nerves and descended to pass the afternoon in the parlor and a high state of dignity.</span>
   <span id="f000104">All sorts of reports reached her:</span>
   <span id="f000105">he was mortally wounded;</span>
   <span id="f000106">he had been made a major or a colonel or a general,</span>
   <span id="f000107">no one knew exactly which;</span>
   <span id="f000108">he was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000109">was going to be married,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and hadn’t come at all.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Belle fully expiated all her small sins by the agonies of suspense she suffered that day,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and when at last a note came from Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000113">begging her “to drop over to see Harry,” she put her pride in her pocket and went at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">The drawing-room was empty and in confusion,</span>
   <span id="f000115">there was a murmur of voices upstairs,</span>
   <span id="f000116">a smell of camphor in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and an empty wine-glass on the table where a military cap was lying.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Belle’s heart sunk,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and she covertly kissed the faded blue coat as she stood waiting breathlessly,</span>
   <span id="f000120">wondering if Harry had any arms for her to run into.</span>
   <span id="f000121">She heard the chuckling Biddy lumber up and announce her,</span>
   <span id="f000122">then a laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and a half-fond,</span>
   <span id="f000124">half-exulting,</span>
   <span id="f000125">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000126">ha,</span>
   <span id="f000127">I thought she’d come!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">That spoilt it all;</span>
   <span id="f000129">Belle took out her pride instanter,</span>
   <span id="f000130">rubbed a quick color into her white cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and,</span>
   <span id="f000132">snatching up a newspaper,</span>
   <span id="f000133">sat herself down with as expressionless a face as it was possible for an excited young woman to possess.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Lennox came running down.</span>
   <span id="f000135">“Thank Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000136">his legs are safe!” sighed Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000137">with her eyes glued to the price of beef.</span>
   <span id="f000138">He entered with both hands extended,</span>
   <span id="f000139">which relieved her mind upon another point;</span>
   <span id="f000140">and he beamed upon her,</span>
   <span id="f000141">looking so vigorous,</span>
   <span id="f000142">manly,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and martial,</span>
   <span id="f000144">that she cried within herself,</span>
   <span id="f000145">“My beautiful brown soldier!” even while she greeted him with an unnecessarily brief,</span>
   <span id="f000146">“How do you do,</span>
   <span id="f000147">Mr.&#160;Lennox?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">The sudden eclipse which passed over his joyful countenance would have been ludicrous,</span>
   <span id="f000149">if it hadn’t been pathetic;</span>
   <span id="f000150">but he was used to hard knocks now,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and bore this,</span>
   <span id="f000152">his hardest,</span>
   <span id="f000153">like a man.</span>
   <span id="f000154">He shook hands heartily;</span>
   <span id="f000155">and,</span>
   <span id="f000156">as Belle sat down again</span>
   <span id="f000157">(not to betray that she was trembling a good deal),</span>
   <span id="f000158">he stood at ease before her,</span>
   <span id="f000159">talking in a way which soon satisfied her that he <em>had</em> borne the test,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and that bliss was waiting for her round the corner.</span>
   <span id="f000161">But she had made it such a very sharp corner she couldn’t turn it gracefully,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and while she pondered how to do so he helped her with a cough.</span>
   <span id="f000163">She looked up quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000164">discovering all at once that he was very thin,</span>
   <span id="f000165">rather pale in spite of the nice tan,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and breathed hurriedly as he stood with one hand in his breast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“Are you ill,</span>
   <span id="f000168">wounded,</span>
   <span id="f000169">in pain?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000170">forgetting herself entirely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000172">all three,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000173">after a curious look at her changing color and anxious eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“Sit down – tell me about it – can I do any thing?” and Belle began to plump up the pillows on the couch with nervous eagerness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000176">I’m past help,” was the mournful reply accompanied by a hollow cough which made her shiver.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000178">don’t say so!</span>
   <span id="f000179">Let me bring father;</span>
   <span id="f000180">he is very skilful.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Shall I call Kate?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“He can do nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000183">Kate doesn’t know this,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and I beg you won’t tell her.</span>
   <span id="f000185">I got a shot in the breast and made light of it,</span>
   <span id="f000186">but it will finish me sooner or later.</span>
   <span id="f000187">I don’t mind telling you,</span>
   <span id="f000188">for you are one of the strong,</span>
   <span id="f000189">cool sort,</span>
   <span id="f000190">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and are not affected by such things.</span>
   <span id="f000192">But Kate is so fond of me,</span>
   <span id="f000193">I don’t want to shock and trouble her yet awhile.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Let her enjoy my little visit,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and after I’m gone you can tell her the truth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">Belle had sat like a statue while he spoke with frequent pauses and an involuntary clutch or two at the suffering breast.</span>
   <span id="f000197">As he stopped and passed his hand over his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000198">she said slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000199">as if her white lips were stiff,</span>
   <span id="f000200">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Gone!</span>
   <span id="f000202">where?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">“Back to my place.</span>
   <span id="f000204">I’d rather die fighting than fussed and wailed over by a parcel of women.</span>
   <span id="f000205">I expected to stay a week or so,</span>
   <span id="f000206">but a battle is coming off sooner than we imagined,</span>
   <span id="f000207">so I’m away again to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000208">As I’m not likely ever to come back,</span>
   <span id="f000209">I just wanted to ask you to stand by poor Kate when I’m finished,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and to say good-by to you,</span>
   <span id="f000211">Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000212">before I go.” He put out his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000213">but,</span>
   <span id="f000214">holding it fast in both her own,</span>
   <span id="f000215">she laid her tearful face down on it,</span>
   <span id="f000216">whispering imploringly,</span>
   <span id="f000217">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000219">Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000220">stay!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">Never mind what happened for the next ten minutes;</span>
   <span id="f000222">suffice it to say that the enemy having surrendered,</span>
   <span id="f000223">the victor took possession with great jubilation and showed no quarter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“Bang the field-piece,</span>
   <span id="f000225">toot the fife,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and beat the rolling drum,</span>
   <span id="f000227">for ruse number three has succeeded.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Come down,</span>
   <span id="f000229">Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and give us your blessing!” called Lennox,</span>
   <span id="f000231">taking pity on his sister,</span>
   <span id="f000232">who was anxiously awaiting the <em>denouement</em> on the stairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">In she rushed,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and the young ladies laughed and cried,</span>
   <span id="f000235">kissed and talked tumultuously,</span>
   <span id="f000236">while their idol benignantly looked on,</span>
   <span id="f000237">vainly endeavoring to repress all vestiges of unmanly emotion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“And you are not dying,</span>
   <span id="f000239">really,</span>
   <span id="f000240">truly?” cried Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000241">when fair weather set in after the flurry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“Bless your dear heart,</span>
   <span id="f000243">no!</span>
   <span id="f000244">I’m as sound as a nut,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and haven’t a wound to boast of,</span>
   <span id="f000246">except this ugly slash on the head.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“It’s a splendid wound,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and I’m proud of it,” and Belle set a rosy little seal on the scar,</span>
   <span id="f000249">which quite reconciled her lover to the disfigurement of his handsome forehead.</span>
   <span id="f000250">“You’ve learned to fib in the army,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and I’m disappointed in you,” she added,</span>
   <span id="f000252">trying to look reproachful and failing entirely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000254">only the art of strategy.</span>
   <span id="f000255">You quenched me by your frosty reception,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and I thought it was all up till you put the idea of playing invalid into my head.</span>
   <span id="f000257">It succeeded so well that I piled on the agony,</span>
   <span id="f000258">resolving to fight it out on that line,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and if I failed again to make a masterly retreat.</span>
   <span id="f000260">You gave me a lesson in deceit once,</span>
   <span id="f000261">so don’t complain if I turned the tables and made your heart ache for a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000262">as you’ve made mine for a year.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">Belle’s spirit was rapidly coming back,</span>
   <span id="f000264">so she gave him a capital imitation of his French shrug,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and drawled out in his old way,</span>
   <span id="f000266">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“I have my doubts about that,</span>
   <span id="f000268"><em>mon ami</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“What do you say to this – and this – and this?” he retorted,</span>
   <span id="f000270">pulling out and laying before her with a triumphant flourish a faded blue ribbon,</span>
   <span id="f000271">a fat pincushion with a hole through it,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and a daintily painted little picture of a pretty girl in scarlet stockings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“There,</span>
   <span id="f000274">I’ve carried those treasures in my breast-pocket for a year,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and I’m firmly convinced that they have all done their part toward keeping me safe.</span>
   <span id="f000276">The blue ribbon bound me fast to you,</span>
   <span id="f000277">Belle;</span>
   <span id="f000278">the funny cushion caught the bullet that otherwise might have finished me;</span>
   <span id="f000279">and the blessed little picture was my comfort during those dreadful marches,</span>
   <span id="f000280">my companion on picket-duty with treachery and danger all about me,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and my inspiration when the word ’Charge!’ went down the line,</span>
   <span id="f000282">for in the thickest of the fight I always saw the little gray figure beckoning me on to my duty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000284">Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000285">you won’t go back to all those horrors,</span>
   <span id="f000286">will you?</span>
   <span id="f000287">I’m sure you’ve done enough,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and may rest now and enjoy your reward,” said Kate,</span>
   <span id="f000289">trying not to feel that “two is company,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and three is none.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“I’ve enlisted for the war,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and shall not rest till either it or I come to an end.</span>
   <span id="f000293">As for my reward,</span>
   <span id="f000294">I had it when Belle kissed me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“You are right,</span>
   <span id="f000296">I’ll wait for you,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and love you all the better for the sacrifice,” whispered Belle.</span>
   <span id="f000298">“I only wish I could share your hardships,</span>
   <span id="f000299">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000300">for while you fight and suffer I can only love and pray.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“Waiting is harder than working to such as you;</span>
   <span id="f000302">so be contented with your share,</span>
   <span id="f000303">for the thought of you will glorify the world generally for me.</span>
   <span id="f000304">I’ll tell you what you <em>can</em> do while I’m away:</span>
   <span id="f000305">it’s both useful and amusing,</span>
   <span id="f000306">so it will occupy and cheer you capitally.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Just knit lots of red hose,</span>
   <span id="f000308">because I don’t intend you to wear any others hereafter,</span>
   <span id="f000309">Mrs.&#160;Lennox.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">“Mine are not worn out yet,” laughed Belle,</span>
   <span id="f000311">getting merry at the thought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">No matter for that;</span>
   <span id="f000313">those are sacred articles,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and henceforth must be treasured as memorials of our love.</span>
   <span id="f000315">Frame and hang them up;</span>
   <span id="f000316">or,</span>
   <span id="f000317">if the prejudices of society forbid that flight of romance,</span>
   <span id="f000318">lay them carefully away where moths can’t devour nor thieves steal them,</span>
   <span id="f000319">so that years hence,</span>
   <span id="f000320">when my descendants praise me for any virtues I may possess,</span>
   <span id="f000321">any good I may have done,</span>
   <span id="f000322">or any honor I may have earned,</span>
   <span id="f000323">I can point to those precious relics and say proudly,</span>
   <span id="f000324">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">“My children,</span>
   <span id="f000326">for all that I am,</span>
   <span id="f000327">or hope to be,</span>
   <span id="f000328">you must thank your honored mother’s scarlet stockings.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

