<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This LibriVox recording is in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />John Greenman</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000002">Does the Race of Man Love a Lord?</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor">by<br />Mark Twain</p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000003">Often a quite assified remark becomes sanctified by use and petrified by custom;</span>
   <span id="f000004">it is then a permanency,</span>
   <span id="f000005">its term of activity a geologic period.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000006">The day after the arrival of Prince Henry I met an English friend,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and he rubbed his hands and broke out with a remark that was charged to the brim with joy – joy that was evidently a pleasant salve to an old sore place:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000008">“Many a time I’ve had to listen without retort to an old saying that is irritatingly true,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and until now seemed to offer no chance for a return jibe:</span>
   <span id="f000010">’An Englishman does dearly love a lord’;</span>
   <span id="f000011">but after this I shall talk back,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and say,</span>
   <span id="f000013">’How about the Americans?’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">It is a curious thing,</span>
   <span id="f000015">the currency that an idiotic saying can get.</span>
   <span id="f000016">The man that first says it thinks he has made a discovery.</span>
   <span id="f000017">The man he says it to,</span>
   <span id="f000018">thinks the same.</span>
   <span id="f000019">It departs on its travels,</span>
   <span id="f000020">is received everywhere with admiring acceptance,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and not only as a piece of rare and acute observation,</span>
   <span id="f000022">but as being exhaustively true and profoundly wise;</span>
   <span id="f000023">and so it presently takes its place in the world’s list of recognized and established wisdoms,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and after that no one thinks of examining it to see whether it is really entitled to its high honors or not.</span>
   <span id="f000025">I call to mind instances of this in two well-established proverbs,</span>
   <span id="f000026">whose dullness is not surpassed by the one about the Englishman and his love for a lord:</span>
   <span id="f000027">one of them records the American’s Adoration of the Almighty Dollar,</span>
   <span id="f000028">the other the American millionaire-girl’s ambition to trade cash for a title,</span>
   <span id="f000029">with a husband thrown in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">It isn’t merely the American that adores the Almighty Dollar,</span>
   <span id="f000031">it is the human race.</span>
   <span id="f000032">The human race has always adored the hatful of shells,</span>
   <span id="f000033">or the bale of calico,</span>
   <span id="f000034">or the half-bushel of brass rings,</span>
   <span id="f000035">or the handful of steel fish-hooks,</span>
   <span id="f000036">or the houseful of black wives,</span>
   <span id="f000037">or the zareba full of cattle,</span>
   <span id="f000038">or the two-score camels and asses,</span>
   <span id="f000039">or the factory,</span>
   <span id="f000040">or the farm,</span>
   <span id="f000041">or the block of buildings,</span>
   <span id="f000042">or the railroad bonds,</span>
   <span id="f000043">or the bank stock,</span>
   <span id="f000044">or the hoarded cash,</span>
   <span id="f000045">or – anything that stands for wealth and consideration and independence,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and can secure to the possessor that most precious of all things,</span>
   <span id="f000047">another man’s envy.</span>
   <span id="f000048">It was a dull person that invented the idea that the American’s devotion to the dollar is more strenuous than another’s.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">Rich American girls do buy titles,</span>
   <span id="f000050">but they did not invent that idea;</span>
   <span id="f000051">it had been worn threadbare several hundred centuries before America was discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000052">European girls still exploit it as briskly as ever;</span>
   <span id="f000053">and,</span>
   <span id="f000054">when a title is not to be had for the money in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000055">they buy the husband without it.</span>
   <span id="f000056">They must put up the “dot,” or there is no trade.</span>
   <span id="f000057">The commercialization of brides is substantially universal,</span>
   <span id="f000058">except in America.</span>
   <span id="f000059">It exists with us,</span>
   <span id="f000060">to some little extent,</span>
   <span id="f000061">but in no degree approaching a custom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“The Englishman dearly loves a lord.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">What is the soul and source of this love?</span>
   <span id="f000064">I think the thing could be more correctly worded:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“The human race dearly envies a lord.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">That is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000067">it envies the lord’s place.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Why?</span>
   <span id="f000069">On two accounts,</span>
   <span id="f000070">I think:</span>
   <span id="f000071">its Power and its Conspicuousness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Where Conspicuousness carries with it a Power which,</span>
   <span id="f000073">by the light of our own observation and experience,</span>
   <span id="f000074">we are able to measure and comprehend,</span>
   <span id="f000075">I think our envy of the possessor is as deep and as passionate as is that of any other nation.</span>
   <span id="f000076">No one can care less for a lord than the backwoodsman,</span>
   <span id="f000077">who has had no personal contact with lords and has seldom heard them spoken of;</span>
   <span id="f000078">but I will not allow that any Englishman has a profounder envy of a lord than has the average American who has lived long years in a European capital and fully learned how immense is the position the lord occupies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">Of any ten thousand Americans who eagerly gather,</span>
   <span id="f000080">at vast inconvenience,</span>
   <span id="f000081">to get a glimpse of Prince Henry,</span>
   <span id="f000082">all but a couple of hundred will be there out of an immense curiosity;</span>
   <span id="f000083">they are burning up with desire to see a personage who is so much talked about.</span>
   <span id="f000084">They envy him;</span>
   <span id="f000085">but it is Conspicuousness they envy mainly,</span>
   <span id="f000086">not the Power that is lodged in his royal quality and position,</span>
   <span id="f000087">for they have but a vague and spectral knowledge and appreciation of that;</span>
   <span id="f000088">though their environment and associations they have been accustomed to regard such things lightly,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and as not being very real;</span>
   <span id="f000090">consequently,</span>
   <span id="f000091">they are not able to value them enough to consumingly envy them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">But,</span>
   <span id="f000093">whenever an American</span>
   <span id="f000094">(or other human being)</span>
   <span id="f000095">is in the presence,</span>
   <span id="f000096">for the first time,</span>
   <span id="f000097">of a combination of great Power and Conspicuousness which he thoroughly understands and appreciates,</span>
   <span id="f000098">his eager curiosity and pleasure will be well-sodden with that other passion – envy – whether he suspects it or not.</span>
   <span id="f000099">At any time,</span>
   <span id="f000100">on any day,</span>
   <span id="f000101">in any part of America,</span>
   <span id="f000102">you can confer a happiness upon any passing stranger by calling his attention to any other passing stranger and saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Do you see that gentleman going along there?</span>
   <span id="f000104">It is Mr.&#160;Rockefeller.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">Watch his eye.</span>
   <span id="f000106">It is a combination of power and conspicuousness which the man understands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">When we understand rank,</span>
   <span id="f000108">we always like to rub against it.</span>
   <span id="f000109">When a man is conspicuous,</span>
   <span id="f000110">we always want to see him.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000112">if he will pay us an attention we will manage to remember it.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000114">we will mention it now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000115">casually;</span>
   <span id="f000116">sometimes to a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000117">or if a friend is not handy,</span>
   <span id="f000118">we will make out with a stranger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000120">then,</span>
   <span id="f000121">what is rank,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and what is conspicuousness?</span>
   <span id="f000123">At once we think of kings and aristocracies,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and of world-wide celebrities in soldierships,</span>
   <span id="f000125">the arts,</span>
   <span id="f000126">letters,</span>
   <span id="f000127">etc.,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and we stop there.</span>
   <span id="f000129">But that is a mistake.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Rank holds its court and receives its homage on every round of the ladder,</span>
   <span id="f000131">from the emperor down to the rat-catcher;</span>
   <span id="f000132">and distinction,</span>
   <span id="f000133">also,</span>
   <span id="f000134">exists on every round of the ladder,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and commands its due of deference and envy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">To worship rank and distinction is the dear and valued privilege of all the human race,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and it is freely and joyfully exercised in democracies as well as in monarchies – and even,</span>
   <span id="f000138">to some extent,</span>
   <span id="f000139">among those creatures whom we impertinently call the Lower Animals.</span>
   <span id="f000140">For even they have some poor little vanities and foibles,</span>
   <span id="f000141">though in this matter they are paupers as compared to us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">A Chinese Emperor has the worship of his four hundred millions of subjects,</span>
   <span id="f000143">but the rest of the world is indifferent to him.</span>
   <span id="f000144">A Christian Emperor has the worship of his subjects and of a large part of the Christian world outside of his domains;</span>
   <span id="f000145">but he is a matter of indifference to all China.</span>
   <span id="f000146">A king,</span>
   <span id="f000147">class A,</span>
   <span id="f000148">has an extensive worship;</span>
   <span id="f000149">a king,</span>
   <span id="f000150">class B,</span>
   <span id="f000151">has a less extensive worship;</span>
   <span id="f000152">class C,</span>
   <span id="f000153">class D,</span>
   <span id="f000154">class E get a steadily diminishing share of worship;</span>
   <span id="f000155">class L</span>
   <span id="f000156">(Sultan of Zanzibar),</span>
   <span id="f000157">class P</span>
   <span id="f000158">(Sultan of Sulu),</span>
   <span id="f000159">and class W</span>
   <span id="f000160">(half-king of Samoa),</span>
   <span id="f000161">get no worship at all outside their own little patch of sovereignty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">Take the distinguished people along down.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Each has his group of homage-payers.</span>
   <span id="f000164">In the navy,</span>
   <span id="f000165">there are many groups;</span>
   <span id="f000166">they start with the Secretary and the Admiral,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and go down to the quartermaster – and below;</span>
   <span id="f000168">for there will be groups among the sailors,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and each of these groups will have a tar who is distinguished for his battles,</span>
   <span id="f000170">or his strength,</span>
   <span id="f000171">or his daring,</span>
   <span id="f000172">or his profanity,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and is admired and envied by his group.</span>
   <span id="f000174">The same with the army;</span>
   <span id="f000175">the same with the literary and journalistic craft;</span>
   <span id="f000176">the publishing craft;</span>
   <span id="f000177">the cod-fishery craft;</span>
   <span id="f000178">Standard Oil;</span>
   <span id="f000179">U.</span>
   <span id="f000180">S.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Steel;</span>
   <span id="f000182">the class A hotel – and the rest of the alphabet in that line;</span>
   <span id="f000183">the class A prize-fighter – and the rest of the alphabet in his line – clear down to the lowest and obscurest six-boy gang of little gamins,</span>
   <span id="f000184">with its one boy that can thrash the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and to whom he is king of Samoa,</span>
   <span id="f000186">bottom of the royal race,</span>
   <span id="f000187">but looked up to with a most ardent admiration and envy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">There is something pathetic,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and funny,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000191">about this human race’s fondness for contact with power and distinction,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and for the reflected glory it gets out of it.</span>
   <span id="f000193">The king,</span>
   <span id="f000194">class A,</span>
   <span id="f000195">is happy in the state banquet and the military show which the emperor provides for him,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and he goes home and gathers the queen and the princelings around him in the privacy of the spare room,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and tells them all about it,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and says:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“His Imperial Majesty put his hand upon my shoulder in the most friendly way – just as friendly and familiar,</span>
   <span id="f000200">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000201">you can’t imagine it!</span>
   <span id="f000202">– and everybody SEEING him do it;</span>
   <span id="f000203">charming,</span>
   <span id="f000204">perfectly charming!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">The king,</span>
   <span id="f000206">class G,</span>
   <span id="f000207">is happy in the cold collation and the police parade provided for him by the king,</span>
   <span id="f000208">class B,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and goes home and tells the family all about it,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and says:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“And His Majesty took me into his own private cabinet for a smoke and a chat,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and there we sat just as sociable,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and talking away and laughing and chatting,</span>
   <span id="f000214">just the same as if we had been born in the same bunk;</span>
   <span id="f000215">and all the servants in the anteroom could see us doing it!</span>
   <span id="f000216">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000217">it was too lovely for anything!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">The king,</span>
   <span id="f000219">class Q,</span>
   <span id="f000220">is happy in the modest entertainment furnished him by the king,</span>
   <span id="f000221">class M,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and goes home and tells the household about it,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and is as grateful and joyful over it as were his predecessors in the gaudier attentions that had fallen to their larger lot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">Emperors,</span>
   <span id="f000225">kings,</span>
   <span id="f000226">artisans,</span>
   <span id="f000227">peasants,</span>
   <span id="f000228">big people,</span>
   <span id="f000229">little people – at the bottom we are all alike and all the same;</span>
   <span id="f000230">all just alike on the inside,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and when our clothes are off,</span>
   <span id="f000232">nobody can tell which of us is which.</span>
   <span id="f000233">We are unanimous in the pride we take in good and genuine compliments paid us,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and distinctions conferred upon us,</span>
   <span id="f000235">in attentions shown.</span>
   <span id="f000236">There is not one of us,</span>
   <span id="f000237">from the emperor down,</span>
   <span id="f000238">but is made like that.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Do I mean attentions shown us by the guest?</span>
   <span id="f000240">No,</span>
   <span id="f000241">I mean simply flattering attentions,</span>
   <span id="f000242">let them come whence they may.</span>
   <span id="f000243">We despise no source that can pay us a pleasing attention – there is no source that is humble enough for that.</span>
   <span id="f000244">You have heard a dear little girl say to a frowzy and disreputable dog:</span>
   <span id="f000245">“He came right to me and let me pat him on the head,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and he wouldn’t let the others touch him!” and you have seen her eyes dance with pride in that high distinction.</span>
   <span id="f000247">You have often seen that.</span>
   <span id="f000248">If the child were a princess,</span>
   <span id="f000249">would that random dog be able to confer the like glory upon her with his pretty compliment?</span>
   <span id="f000250">Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000251">and even in her mature life and seated upon a throne,</span>
   <span id="f000252">she would still remember it,</span>
   <span id="f000253">still recall it,</span>
   <span id="f000254">still speak of it with frank satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000255">That charming and lovable German princess and poet,</span>
   <span id="f000256">Carmen Sylva,</span>
   <span id="f000257">Queen of Roumania,</span>
   <span id="f000258">remembers yet that the flowers of the woods and fields “talked to her” when she was a girl,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and she sets it down in her latest book;</span>
   <span id="f000260">and that the squirrels conferred upon her and her father the valued compliment of not being afraid of them;</span>
   <span id="f000261">and “once one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000262">holding a nut between its sharp little teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000263">ran right up against my father” – it has the very note of “He came right to me and let me pat him on the head” – “and when it saw itself reflected in his boot it was very much surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and stopped for a long time to contemplate itself in the polished leather” – then it went its way.</span>
   <span id="f000265">And the birds!</span>
   <span id="f000266">she still remembers with pride that “they came boldly into my room,” when she had neglected her “duty” and put no food on the window-sill for them;</span>
   <span id="f000267">she knew all the wild birds,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and forgets the royal crown on her head to remember with pride that they knew her;</span>
   <span id="f000269">also that the wasp and the bee were personal friends of hers,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and never forgot that gracious relationship to her injury:</span>
   <span id="f000271">“never have I been stung by a wasp or a bee.” And here is that proud note again that sings in that little child’s elation in being singled out,</span>
   <span id="f000272">among all the company of children,</span>
   <span id="f000273">for the random dog’s honor-conferring attentions.</span>
   <span id="f000274">“Even in the very worst summer for wasps,</span>
   <span id="f000275">when,</span>
   <span id="f000276">in lunching out of doors,</span>
   <span id="f000277">our table was covered with them and every one else was stung,</span>
   <span id="f000278">they never hurt me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">When a queen whose qualities of mind and heart and character are able to add distinction to so distinguished a place as a throne,</span>
   <span id="f000280">remembers with grateful exultation,</span>
   <span id="f000281">after thirty years,</span>
   <span id="f000282">honors and distinctions conferred upon her by the humble,</span>
   <span id="f000283">wild creatures of the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000284">we are helped to realize that complimentary attentions,</span>
   <span id="f000285">homage,</span>
   <span id="f000286">distinctions,</span>
   <span id="f000287">are of no caste,</span>
   <span id="f000288">but are above all cast – that they are a nobility-conferring power apart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">We all like these things.</span>
   <span id="f000290">When the gate-guard at the railway-station passes me through unchallenged and examines other people’s tickets,</span>
   <span id="f000291">I feel as the king,</span>
   <span id="f000292">class A,</span>
   <span id="f000293">felt when the emperor put the imperial hand on his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000294">“everybody seeing him do it”;</span>
   <span id="f000295">and as the child felt when the random dog allowed her to pat his head and ostracized the others;</span>
   <span id="f000296">and as the princess felt when the wasps spared her and stung the rest;</span>
   <span id="f000297">and I felt just so,</span>
   <span id="f000298">four years ago in Vienna</span>
   <span id="f000299">(and remember it yet),</span>
   <span id="f000300">when the helmeted police shut me off,</span>
   <span id="f000301">with fifty others,</span>
   <span id="f000302">from a street which the Emperor was to pass through,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and the captain of the squad turned and saw the situation and said indignantly to that guard:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“Can’t you see it is the Herr Mark Twain?</span>
   <span id="f000305">Let him through!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">It was four years ago;</span>
   <span id="f000307">but it will be four hundred before I forget the wind of self-complacency that rose in me,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and strained my buttons when I marked the deference for me evoked in the faces of my fellow-rabble,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and noted,</span>
   <span id="f000310">mingled with it,</span>
   <span id="f000311">a puzzled and resentful expression which said,</span>
   <span id="f000312">as plainly as speech could have worded it:</span>
   <span id="f000313">“And who in the nation is the Herr Mark Twain UM GOTTESWILLEN?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">How many times in your life have you heard this boastful remark:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“I stood as close to him as I am to you;</span>
   <span id="f000316">I could have put out my hand and touched him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">We have all heard it many and many a time.</span>
   <span id="f000318">It was a proud distinction to be able to say those words.</span>
   <span id="f000319">It brought envy to the speaker,</span>
   <span id="f000320">a kind of glory;</span>
   <span id="f000321">and he basked in it and was happy through all his veins.</span>
   <span id="f000322">And who was it he stood so close to?</span>
   <span id="f000323">The answer would cover all the grades.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Sometimes it was a king;</span>
   <span id="f000325">sometimes it was a renowned highwayman;</span>
   <span id="f000326">sometimes it was an unknown man killed in an extraordinary way and made suddenly famous by it;</span>
   <span id="f000327">always it was a person who was for the moment the subject of public interest of a village.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“I was there,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and I saw it myself.” That is a common and envy-compelling remark.</span>
   <span id="f000330">It can refer to a battle;</span>
   <span id="f000331">to a handing;</span>
   <span id="f000332">to a coronation;</span>
   <span id="f000333">to the killing of Jumbo by the railway-train;</span>
   <span id="f000334">to the arrival of Jenny Lind at the Battery;</span>
   <span id="f000335">to the meeting of the President and Prince Henry;</span>
   <span id="f000336">to the chase of a murderous maniac;</span>
   <span id="f000337">to the disaster in the tunnel;</span>
   <span id="f000338">to the explosion in the subway;</span>
   <span id="f000339">to a remarkable dog-fight;</span>
   <span id="f000340">to a village church struck by lightning.</span>
   <span id="f000341">It will be said,</span>
   <span id="f000342">more or less causally,</span>
   <span id="f000343">by everybody in America who has seen Prince Henry do anything,</span>
   <span id="f000344">or try to.</span>
   <span id="f000345">The man who was absent and didn’t see him to anything,</span>
   <span id="f000346">will scoff.</span>
   <span id="f000347">It is his privilege;</span>
   <span id="f000348">and he can make capital out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000349">too;</span>
   <span id="f000350">he will seem,</span>
   <span id="f000351">even to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000352">to be different from other Americans,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and better.</span>
   <span id="f000354">As his opinion of his superior Americanism grows,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and swells,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and concentrates and coagulates,</span>
   <span id="f000357">he will go further and try to belittle the distinction of those that saw the Prince do things,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and will spoil their pleasure in it if he can.</span>
   <span id="f000359">My life has been embittered by that kind of person.</span>
   <span id="f000360">If you are able to tell of a special distinction that has fallen to your lot,</span>
   <span id="f000361">it gravels them;</span>
   <span id="f000362">they cannot bear it;</span>
   <span id="f000363">and they try to make believe that the thing you took for a special distinction was nothing of the kind and was meant in quite another way.</span>
   <span id="f000364">Once I was received in private audience by an emperor.</span>
   <span id="f000365">Last week I was telling a jealous person about it,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and I could see him wince under it,</span>
   <span id="f000367">see him bite,</span>
   <span id="f000368">see him suffer.</span>
   <span id="f000369">I revealed the whole episode to him with considerable elaboration and nice attention to detail.</span>
   <span id="f000370">When I was through,</span>
   <span id="f000371">he asked me what had impressed me most.</span>
   <span id="f000372">I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“His Majesty’s delicacy.</span>
   <span id="f000374">They told me to be sure and back out from the presence,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and find the door-knob as best I could;</span>
   <span id="f000376">it was not allowable to face around.</span>
   <span id="f000377">Now the Emperor knew it would be a difficult ordeal for me,</span>
   <span id="f000378">because of lack of practice;</span>
   <span id="f000379">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000380">when it was time to part,</span>
   <span id="f000381">he turned,</span>
   <span id="f000382">with exceeding delicacy,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and pretended to fumble with things on his desk,</span>
   <span id="f000384">so I could get out in my own way,</span>
   <span id="f000385">without his seeing me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">It went home!</span>
   <span id="f000387">It was vitriol!</span>
   <span id="f000388">I saw the envy and disgruntlement rise in the man’s face;</span>
   <span id="f000389">he couldn’t keep it down.</span>
   <span id="f000390">I saw him try to fix up something in his mind to take the bloom off that distinction.</span>
   <span id="f000391">I enjoyed that,</span>
   <span id="f000392">for I judged that he had his work cut out for him.</span>
   <span id="f000393">He struggled along inwardly for quite a while;</span>
   <span id="f000394">then he said,</span>
   <span id="f000395">with a manner of a person who has to say something and hasn’t anything relevant to say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“You said he had a handful of special-brand cigars on the table?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000398"><em>I</em> never saw anything to match them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">I had him again.</span>
   <span id="f000400">He had to fumble around in his mind as much as another minute before he could play;</span>
   <span id="f000401">then he said in as mean a way as I ever heard a person say anything:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“He could have been counting the cigars,</span>
   <span id="f000403">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">I cannot endure a man like that.</span>
   <span id="f000405">It is nothing to him how unkind he is,</span>
   <span id="f000406">so long as he takes the bloom off.</span>
   <span id="f000407">It is all he cares for.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“An Englishman</span>
   <span id="f000409">(or other human being)</span>
   <span id="f000410">does dearly love a lord,”</span>
   <span id="f000411">(or other conspicuous person.)</span>
   <span id="f000412">It includes us all.</span>
   <span id="f000413">We love to be noticed by the conspicuous person;</span>
   <span id="f000414">we love to be associated with such,</span>
   <span id="f000415">or with a conspicuous event,</span>
   <span id="f000416">even in a seventh-rate fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000417">even in the forty-seventh,</span>
   <span id="f000418">if we cannot do better.</span>
   <span id="f000419">This accounts for some of our curious tastes in mementos.</span>
   <span id="f000420">It accounts for the large private trade in the Prince of Wales’s hair,</span>
   <span id="f000421">which chambermaids were able to drive in that article of commerce when the Prince made the tour of the world in the long ago – hair which probably did not always come from his brush,</span>
   <span id="f000422">since enough of it was marketed to refurnish a bald comet;</span>
   <span id="f000423">it accounts for the fact that the rope which lynches a negro in the presence of ten thousand Christian spectators is salable five minutes later at two dollars and inch;</span>
   <span id="f000424">it accounts for the mournful fact that a royal personage does not venture to wear buttons on his coat in public.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">We do love a lord – and by that term I mean any person whose situation is higher than our own.</span>
   <span id="f000426">The lord of the group,</span>
   <span id="f000427">for instance:</span>
   <span id="f000428">a group of peers,</span>
   <span id="f000429">a group of millionaires,</span>
   <span id="f000430">a group of hoodlums,</span>
   <span id="f000431">a group of sailors,</span>
   <span id="f000432">a group of newsboys,</span>
   <span id="f000433">a group of saloon politicians,</span>
   <span id="f000434">a group of college girls.</span>
   <span id="f000435">No royal person has ever been the object of a more delirious loyalty and slavish adoration than is paid by the vast Tammany herd to its squalid idol in Wantage.</span>
   <span id="f000436">There is not a bifurcated animal in that menagerie that would not be proud to appear in a newspaper picture in his company.</span>
   <span id="f000437">At the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000438">there are some in that organization who would scoff at the people who have been daily pictured in company with Prince Henry,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and would say vigorously that THEY would not consent to be photographed with him – a statement which would not be true in any instance.</span>
   <span id="f000440">There are hundreds of people in America who would frankly say to you that they would not be proud to be photographed in a group with the Prince,</span>
   <span id="f000441">if invited;</span>
   <span id="f000442">and some of these unthinking people would believe it when they said it;</span>
   <span id="f000443">yet in no instance would it be true.</span>
   <span id="f000444">We have a large population,</span>
   <span id="f000445">but we have not a large enough one,</span>
   <span id="f000446">by several millions,</span>
   <span id="f000447">to furnish that man.</span>
   <span id="f000448">He has not yet been begotten,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and in fact he is not begettable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">You may take any of the printed groups,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and there isn’t a person in the dim background who isn’t visibly trying to be vivid;</span>
   <span id="f000452">if it is a crowd of ten thousand – ten thousand proud,</span>
   <span id="f000453">untamed democrats,</span>
   <span id="f000454">horny-handed sons of toil and of politics,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and fliers of the eagle – there isn’t one who is trying to keep out of range,</span>
   <span id="f000456">there isn’t one who isn’t plainly meditating a purchase of the paper in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000457">with the intention of hunting himself out in the picture and of framing and keeping it if he shall find so much of his person in it as his starboard ear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">We all love to get some of the drippings of Conspicuousness,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and we will put up with a single,</span>
   <span id="f000460">humble drip,</span>
   <span id="f000461">if we can’t get any more.</span>
   <span id="f000462">We may pretend otherwise,</span>
   <span id="f000463">in conversation;</span>
   <span id="f000464">but we can’t pretend it to ourselves privately – and we don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000465">We do confess in public that we are the noblest work of God,</span>
   <span id="f000466">being moved to it by long habit,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and teaching,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and superstition;</span>
   <span id="f000469">but deep down in the secret places of our souls we recognize that,</span>
   <span id="f000470">if we ARE the noblest work,</span>
   <span id="f000471">the less said about it the better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">We of the North poke fun at the South for its fondness of titles – a fondness for titles pure and simple,</span>
   <span id="f000473">regardless of whether they are genuine or pinchbeck.</span>
   <span id="f000474">We forget that whatever a Southerner likes the rest of the human race likes,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and that there is no law of predilection lodged in one people that is absent from another people.</span>
   <span id="f000476">There is no variety in the human race.</span>
   <span id="f000477">We are all children,</span>
   <span id="f000478">all children of the one Adam,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and we love toys.</span>
   <span id="f000480">We can soon acquire that Southern disease if some one will give it a start.</span>
   <span id="f000481">It already has a start,</span>
   <span id="f000482">in fact.</span>
   <span id="f000483">I have been personally acquainted with over eighty-four thousand persons who,</span>
   <span id="f000484">at one time or another in their lives,</span>
   <span id="f000485">have served for a year or two on the staffs of our multitudinous governors,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and through that fatality have been generals temporarily,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and colonels temporarily,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and judge-advocates temporarily;</span>
   <span id="f000489">but I have known only nine among them who could be hired to let the title go when it ceased to be legitimate.</span>
   <span id="f000490">I know thousands and thousands of governors who ceased to be governors away back in the last century;</span>
   <span id="f000491">but I am acquainted with only three who would answer your letter if you failed to call them “Governor” in it.</span>
   <span id="f000492">I know acres and acres of men who have done time in a legislature in prehistoric days,</span>
   <span id="f000493">but among them is not half an acre whose resentment you would not raise if you addressed them as “Mr.” instead of “Hon.” The first thing a legislature does is to convene in an impressive legislative attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and get itself photographed.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Each member frames his copy and takes it to the woods and hangs it up in the most aggressively conspicuous place in his house;</span>
   <span id="f000496">and if you visit the house and fail to inquire what that accumulation is,</span>
   <span id="f000497">the conversation will be brought around to it by that aforetime legislator,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and he will show you a figure in it which in the course of years he has almost obliterated with the smut of his finger-marks,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and say with a solemn joy,</span>
   <span id="f000500">“It’s me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">Have you ever seen a country Congressman enter the hotel breakfast-room in Washington with his letters?</span>
   <span id="f000502">– and sit at his table and let on to read them?</span>
   <span id="f000503">– and wrinkle his brows and frown statesman-like?</span>
   <span id="f000504">– keeping a furtive watch-out over his glasses all the while to see if he is being observed and admired?</span>
   <span id="f000505">– those same old letters which he fetches in every morning?</span>
   <span id="f000506">Have you seen it?</span>
   <span id="f000507">Have you seen him show off?</span>
   <span id="f000508">It is THE sight of the national capital.</span>
   <span id="f000509">Except one;</span>
   <span id="f000510">a pathetic one.</span>
   <span id="f000511">That is the ex-Congressman:</span>
   <span id="f000512">the poor fellow whose life has been ruined by a two-year taste of glory and of fictitious consequence;</span>
   <span id="f000513">who has been superseded,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and ought to take his heartbreak home and hide it,</span>
   <span id="f000515">but cannot tear himself away from the scene of his lost little grandeur;</span>
   <span id="f000516">and so he lingers,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and still lingers,</span>
   <span id="f000518">year after year,</span>
   <span id="f000519">unconsidered,</span>
   <span id="f000520">sometimes snubbed,</span>
   <span id="f000521">ashamed of his fallen estate,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and valiantly trying to look otherwise;</span>
   <span id="f000523">dreary and depressed,</span>
   <span id="f000524">but counterfeiting breeziness and gaiety,</span>
   <span id="f000525">hailing with chummy familiarity,</span>
   <span id="f000526">which is not always welcomed,</span>
   <span id="f000527">the more-fortunes who are still in place and were once his mates.</span>
   <span id="f000528">Have you seen him?</span>
   <span id="f000529">He clings piteously to the one little shred that is left of his departed distinction – the “privilege of the floor”;</span>
   <span id="f000530">and works it hard and gets what he can out of it.</span>
   <span id="f000531">That is the saddest figure I know of.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000533">we do so love our little distinctions!</span>
   <span id="f000534">And then we loftily scoff at a Prince for enjoying his larger ones;</span>
   <span id="f000535">forgetting that if we only had his chance – ah!</span>
   <span id="f000536">“Senator” is not a legitimate title.</span>
   <span id="f000537">A Senator has no more right to be addressed by it than have you or I;</span>
   <span id="f000538">but,</span>
   <span id="f000539">in the several state capitals and in Washington,</span>
   <span id="f000540">there are five thousand Senators who take very kindly to that fiction,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and who purr gratefully when you call them by it – which you may do quite unrebuked.</span>
   <span id="f000542">Then those same Senators smile at the self-constructed majors and generals and judges of the South!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000544">we do love our distinctions,</span>
   <span id="f000545">get them how we may.</span>
   <span id="f000546">And we work them for all they are worth.</span>
   <span id="f000547">In prayer we call ourselves “worms of the dust,” but it is only on a sort of tacit understanding that the remark shall not be taken at par.</span>
   <span id="f000548">WE – worms of the dust!</span>
   <span id="f000549">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000550">no,</span>
   <span id="f000551">we are not that.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Except in fact;</span>
   <span id="f000553">and we do not deal much in fact when we are contemplating ourselves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">As a race,</span>
   <span id="f000555">we do certainly love a lord – let him be Croker,</span>
   <span id="f000556">or a duke,</span>
   <span id="f000557">or a prize-fighter,</span>
   <span id="f000558">or whatever other personage shall chance to be the head of our group.</span>
   <span id="f000559">Many years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000560">I saw a greasy youth in overalls standing by the HERALD office,</span>
   <span id="f000561">with an expectant look in his face.</span>
   <span id="f000562">Soon a large man passed out,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and gave him a pat on the shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000564">That was what the boy was waiting for – the large man’s notice.</span>
   <span id="f000565">The pat made him proud and happy,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and the exultation inside of him shone out through his eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000567">and his mates were there to see the pat and envy it and wish they could have that glory.</span>
   <span id="f000568">The boy belonged down cellar in the press-room,</span>
   <span id="f000569">the large man was king of the upper floors,</span>
   <span id="f000570">foreman of the composing-room.</span>
   <span id="f000571">The light in the boy’s face was worship,</span>
   <span id="f000572">the foreman was his lord,</span>
   <span id="f000573">head of his group.</span>
   <span id="f000574">The pat was an accolade.</span>
   <span id="f000575">It was as precious to the boy as it would have been if he had been an aristocrat’s son and the accolade had been delivered by his sovereign with a sword.</span>
   <span id="f000576">The quintessence of the honor was all there;</span>
   <span id="f000577">there was no difference in values;</span>
   <span id="f000578">in truth there was no difference present except an artificial one – clothes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">All the human race loves a lord – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000580">loves to look upon or be noticed by the possessor of Power or Conspicuousness;</span>
   <span id="f000581">and sometimes animals,</span>
   <span id="f000582">born to better things and higher ideals,</span>
   <span id="f000583">descend to man’s level in this matter.</span>
   <span id="f000584">In the Jardin des Plantes I have see a cat that was so vain of being the personal friend of an elephant that I was ashamed of her.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

