<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Bellona Times</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Forewarned</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Saki</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Alethia Debchance sat in a corner of an otherwise empty railway carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000008">more or less at ease as regarded body,</span>
   <span id="f000009">but in some trepidation as to mind.</span>
   <span id="f000010">She had embarked on a social adventure of no little magnitude as compared with the accustomed seclusion and stagnation of her past life.</span>
   <span id="f000011">At the age of twenty-eight she could look back on nothing more eventful than the daily round of her existence in her aunt’s house at Webblehinton,</span>
   <span id="f000012">a hamlet four and a half miles distant from a country town and about a quarter of a century removed from modern times.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Their neighbours had been elderly and few,</span>
   <span id="f000014">not much given to social intercourse,</span>
   <span id="f000015">but helpful or politely sympathetic in times of illness.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Newspapers of the ordinary kind were a rarity;</span>
   <span id="f000017">those that Alethia saw regularly were devoted exclusively either to religion or to poultry,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and the world of politics was to her an unheeded unexplored region.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Her ideas on life in general had been acquired through the medium of popular respectable novel-writers,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and modified or emphasised by such knowledge as her aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000021">the vicar,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and her aunt’s housekeeper had put at her disposal.</span>
   <span id="f000023">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000024">in her twenty-ninth year,</span>
   <span id="f000025">her aunt’s death had left her,</span>
   <span id="f000026">well provided for as regards income,</span>
   <span id="f000027">but somewhat isolated in the matter of kith and kin and human companionship.</span>
   <span id="f000028">She had some cousins who were on terms of friendly,</span>
   <span id="f000029">though infrequent,</span>
   <span id="f000030">correspondence with her,</span>
   <span id="f000031">but as they lived permanently in Ceylon,</span>
   <span id="f000032">a locality about which she knew little,</span>
   <span id="f000033">beyond the assurance contained in the missionary hymn that the human element there was vile,</span>
   <span id="f000034">they were not of much immediate use to her.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Other cousins she also possessed,</span>
   <span id="f000036">more distant as regards relationship,</span>
   <span id="f000037">but not quite so geographically remote,</span>
   <span id="f000038">seeing that they lived somewhere in the Midlands.</span>
   <span id="f000039">She could hardly remember ever having met them,</span>
   <span id="f000040">but once or twice in the course of the last three or four years they had expressed a polite wish that she should pay them a visit;</span>
   <span id="f000041">they had probably not been unduly depressed by the fact that her aunt’s failing health had prevented her from accepting their invitation.</span>
   <span id="f000042">The note of condolence that had arrived on the occasion of her aunt’s death had included a vague hope that Alethia would find time in the near future to spend a few days with her cousins,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and after much deliberation and many hesitations she had written to propose herself as a guest for a definite date some weeks ahead.</span>
   <span id="f000044">The family,</span>
   <span id="f000045">she reflected with relief,</span>
   <span id="f000046">was not a large one;</span>
   <span id="f000047">the two daughters were married and away,</span>
   <span id="f000048">there was only old Mrs.&#160;Bludward and her son Robert at home.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Mrs.&#160;Bludward was something of an invalid,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and Robert was a young man who had been at Oxford and was going into Parliament.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Further than that Alethia’s information did not go;</span>
   <span id="f000052">her imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000053">founded on her extensive knowledge of the people one met in novels,</span>
   <span id="f000054">had to supply the gaps.</span>
   <span id="f000055">The mother was not difficult to place;</span>
   <span id="f000056">she would either be an ultra-amiable old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000057">bearing her feeble health with uncomplaining fortitude,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and having a kind word for the gardener’s boy and a sunny smile for the chance visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000059">or else she would be cold and peevish,</span>
   <span id="f000060">with eyes that pierced you like a gimlet,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and an unreasoning idolatry of her son.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Alethia’s imagination rather inclined her to the latter view.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Robert was more of a problem.</span>
   <span id="f000064">There were three dominant types of manhood to be taken into consideration in working out his classification;</span>
   <span id="f000065">there was Hugo,</span>
   <span id="f000066">who was strong,</span>
   <span id="f000067">good,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000069">a rare type and not very often met with;</span>
   <span id="f000070">there was Sir Jasper,</span>
   <span id="f000071">who was utterly vile and absolutely unscrupulous,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and there was Nevil,</span>
   <span id="f000073">who was not really bad at heart,</span>
   <span id="f000074">but had a weak mouth and usually required the life-work of two good women to keep him from ultimate disaster.</span>
   <span id="f000075">It was probable,</span>
   <span id="f000076">Alethia considered,</span>
   <span id="f000077">that Robert came into the last category,</span>
   <span id="f000078">in which case she was certain to enjoy the companionship of one or two excellent women,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and might possibly catch glimpses of undesirable adventuresses or come face to face with reckless admiration-seeking married women.</span>
   <span id="f000080">It was altogether an exciting prospect,</span>
   <span id="f000081">this sudden venture into an unexplored world of unknown human beings,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and Alethia rather wished that she could have taken the vicar with her;</span>
   <span id="f000083">she was not,</span>
   <span id="f000084">however,</span>
   <span id="f000085">rich or important enough to travel with a chaplain,</span>
   <span id="f000086">as the Marquis of Moystoncleugh always did in the novel she had just been reading,</span>
   <span id="f000087">so she recognised that such a proceeding was out of the question.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">The train which carried Alethia towards her destination was a local one,</span>
   <span id="f000089">with the wayside station habit strongly developed.</span>
   <span id="f000090">At most of the stations no one seemed to want to get into the train or to leave it,</span>
   <span id="f000091">but at one there were several market folk on the platform,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and two men,</span>
   <span id="f000093">of the farmer or small cattle-dealer class,</span>
   <span id="f000094">entered Alethia’s carriage.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Apparently they had just foregathered,</span>
   <span id="f000096">after a day’s business,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and their conversation consisted of a rapid exchange of short friendly inquiries as to health,</span>
   <span id="f000098">family,</span>
   <span id="f000099">stock,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and so forth,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and some grumbling remarks on the weather.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000103">however,</span>
   <span id="f000104">their talk took a dramatically interesting turn,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and Alethia listened with wide-eyed attention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“What do you think of Mister Robert Bludward,</span>
   <span id="f000107">eh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">There was a certain scornful ring in his question.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“Robert Bludward?</span>
   <span id="f000110">An out-an’-out rotter,</span>
   <span id="f000111">that’s what he is.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Ought to be ashamed to look any decent man in the face.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Send him to Parliament to represent us—not much!</span>
   <span id="f000114">He’d rob a poor man of his last shilling,</span>
   <span id="f000115">he would.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000117">that he would.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Tells a pack of lies to get our votes,</span>
   <span id="f000119">that’s all that he’s after,</span>
   <span id="f000120">damn him.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Did you see the way the <em>Argus</em> showed him up this week?</span>
   <span id="f000122">Properly exposed him,</span>
   <span id="f000123">hip and thigh,</span>
   <span id="f000124">I tell you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">And so on they ran,</span>
   <span id="f000126">in their withering indictment.</span>
   <span id="f000127">There could be no doubt that it was Alethia’s cousin and prospective host to whom they were referring;</span>
   <span id="f000128">the allusion to a Parliamentary candidature settled that.</span>
   <span id="f000129">What could Robert Bludward have done,</span>
   <span id="f000130">what manner of man could he be,</span>
   <span id="f000131">that people should speak of him with such obvious reprobation?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">“He was hissed down at Shoalford yesterday,” said one of the speakers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">Hissed!</span>
   <span id="f000134">Had it come to that?</span>
   <span id="f000135">There was something dramatically biblical in the idea of Robert Bludward’s neighbours and acquaintances hissing him for very scorn.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Lord Hereward Stranglath had been hissed,</span>
   <span id="f000137">now Alethia came to think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000138">in the eighth chapter of <em>Matterby Towers</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000139">while in the act of opening a Wesleyan bazaar,</span>
   <span id="f000140">because he was suspected</span>
   <span id="f000141">(unjustly as it turned out afterwards)</span>
   <span id="f000142">of having beaten the German governess to death.</span>
   <span id="f000143">And in <em>Tainted Guineas</em> Roper Squenderby had been deservedly hissed,</span>
   <span id="f000144">on the steps of the Jockey Club,</span>
   <span id="f000145">for having handed a rival owner a forged telegram,</span>
   <span id="f000146">containing false news of his mother’s death,</span>
   <span id="f000147">just before the start for an important race,</span>
   <span id="f000148">thereby ensuring the withdrawal of his rival’s horse.</span>
   <span id="f000149">In placid Saxon-blooded England people did not demonstrate their feelings lightly and without some strong compelling cause.</span>
   <span id="f000150">What manner of evildoer was Robert Bludward?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">The train stopped at another small station,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and the two men got out.</span>
   <span id="f000153">One of them left behind him a copy of the <em>Argus</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000154">the local paper to which he had made reference.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Alethia pounced on it,</span>
   <span id="f000156">in the expectation of finding a cultured literary endorsement of the censure which these rough farming men had expressed in their homely,</span>
   <span id="f000157">honest way.</span>
   <span id="f000158">She had not far to look;</span>
   <span id="f000159">“Mr.&#160;Robert Bludward,</span>
   <span id="f000160">Swanker,” was the title of one of the principal articles in the paper.</span>
   <span id="f000161">She did not exactly know what a swanker was,</span>
   <span id="f000162">probably it referred to some unspeakable form of cruelty,</span>
   <span id="f000163">but she read enough in the first few sentences of the article to discover that her cousin Robert,</span>
   <span id="f000164">the man at whose house she was about to stay,</span>
   <span id="f000165">was an unscrupulous,</span>
   <span id="f000166">unprincipled character,</span>
   <span id="f000167">of a low order of intelligence,</span>
   <span id="f000168">yet cunning withal,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and that he and his associates were responsible for most of the misery,</span>
   <span id="f000170">disease,</span>
   <span id="f000171">poverty,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and ignorance with which the country was afflicted;</span>
   <span id="f000173">never,</span>
   <span id="f000174">except in one or two of the denunciatory Psalms,</span>
   <span id="f000175">which she had always supposed to have be written in a spirit of exaggerated Oriental imagery,</span>
   <span id="f000176">had she read such an indictment of a human being.</span>
   <span id="f000177">And this monster was going to meet her at Derrelton Station in a few short minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000178">She would know him at once;</span>
   <span id="f000179">he would have the dark beetling brows,</span>
   <span id="f000180">the quick,</span>
   <span id="f000181">furtive glance,</span>
   <span id="f000182">the sneering,</span>
   <span id="f000183">unsavoury smile that always characterised the Sir Jaspers of this world.</span>
   <span id="f000184">It was too late to escape;</span>
   <span id="f000185">she must force herself to meet him with outward calm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">It was a considerable shock to her to find that Robert was fair,</span>
   <span id="f000187">with a snub nose,</span>
   <span id="f000188">merry eye,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and rather a schoolboy manner.</span>
   <span id="f000190">“A serpent in duckling’s plumage,” was her private comment;</span>
   <span id="f000191">merciful chance had revealed him to her in his true colours.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">As they drove away from the station a dissipated-looking man of the labouring class waved his hat in friendly salute.</span>
   <span id="f000193">“Good luck to you,</span>
   <span id="f000194">Mr.&#160;Bludward,” he shouted;</span>
   <span id="f000195">“you’ll come out on top!</span>
   <span id="f000196">We’ll break old Chobham’s neck for him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“Who was that man?” asked Alethia quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000199">one of my supporters,” laughed Robert;</span>
   <span id="f000200">“a bit of a poacher and a bit of a pub-loafer,</span>
   <span id="f000201">but he’s on the right side.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">So these were the sort of associates that Robert Bludward consorted with,</span>
   <span id="f000203">thought Alethia.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“Who is the person he referred to as old Chobham?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“Sir John Chobham,</span>
   <span id="f000206">the man who is opposing me,” answered Robert;</span>
   <span id="f000207">“that is his house away there among the trees on the right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">So there was an upright man,</span>
   <span id="f000209">possibly a very Hugo in character,</span>
   <span id="f000210">who was thwarting and defying the evildoer in his nefarious career,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and there was a dastardly plot afoot to break his neck!</span>
   <span id="f000212">Possibly the attempt would be made within the next few hours.</span>
   <span id="f000213">He must certainly be warned.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Alethia remembered how Lady Sylvia Broomgate,</span>
   <span id="f000215">in <em>Nightshade Court</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000216">had pretended to be bolted with by her horse up to the front door of a threatened county magnate,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and had whispered a warning in his ear which saved him from being the victim of foul murder.</span>
   <span id="f000218">She wondered if there was a quiet pony in the stables on which she would be allowed to ride out alone.</span>
   <span id="f000219">The chances were that she would be watched.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Robert would come spurring after her and seize her bridle just as she was turning in at Sir John’s gates.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">A group of men that they passed in a village street gave them no very friendly looks,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and Alethia thought she heard a furtive hiss;</span>
   <span id="f000223">a moment later they came upon an errand boy riding a bicycle.</span>
   <span id="f000224">He had the frank open countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000225">neatly brushed hair and tidy clothes that betoken a clear conscience and a good mother.</span>
   <span id="f000226">He stared straight at the occupants of the car,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and,</span>
   <span id="f000228">after he had passed them,</span>
   <span id="f000229">sang in his clear,</span>
   <span id="f000230">boyish voice:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">“We’ll hang Bobby Bludward on the sour apple tree.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">Robert merely laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000233">That was how he took the scorn and condemnation of his fellow-men.</span>
   <span id="f000234">He had goaded them to desperation with his shameless depravity till they spoke openly of putting him to a violent death,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and he laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">Mrs.&#160;Bludward proved to be of the type that Alethia had suspected,</span>
   <span id="f000237">thin-lipped,</span>
   <span id="f000238">cold-eyed,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and obviously devoted to her worthless son.</span>
   <span id="f000240">From her no help was to be expected.</span>
   <span id="f000241">Alethia locked her door that night,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and placed such ramparts of furniture against it that the maid had great difficulty in breaking in with the early tea in the morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">After breakfast Alethia,</span>
   <span id="f000244">on the pretext of going to look at an outlying rose-garden,</span>
   <span id="f000245">slipped away to the village through which they had passed on the previous evening.</span>
   <span id="f000246">She remembered that Robert had pointed out to her a public reading-room,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and here she considered it possible that she might meet Sir John Chobham,</span>
   <span id="f000248">or some one who knew him well and would carry a message to him.</span>
   <span id="f000249">The room was empty when she entered it;</span>
   <span id="f000250">a <em>Graphic</em> twelve days old,</span>
   <span id="f000251">a yet older copy of <em>Punch</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and one or two local papers lay upon the central table;</span>
   <span id="f000253">the other tables were stacked for the most part with chess and draughts-boards,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and wooden boxes of chessmen and dominoes.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Listlessly she picked up one of the papers,</span>
   <span id="f000256">the <em>Sentinel</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and glanced at its contents.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Suddenly she started,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and began to read with breathless attention a prominently printed article,</span>
   <span id="f000260">headed “A Little Limelight on Sir John Chobham.” The colour ebbed away from her face,</span>
   <span id="f000261">a look of frightened despair crept into her eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Never,</span>
   <span id="f000263">in any novel that she had read,</span>
   <span id="f000264">had a defenceless young woman been confronted with a situation like this.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Sir John,</span>
   <span id="f000266">the Hugo of her imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000267">was,</span>
   <span id="f000268">if anything,</span>
   <span id="f000269">rather more depraved and despicable than Robert Bludward.</span>
   <span id="f000270">He was mean,</span>
   <span id="f000271">evasive,</span>
   <span id="f000272">callously indifferent to his country’s interests,</span>
   <span id="f000273">a cheat,</span>
   <span id="f000274">a man who habitually broke his word,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and who was responsible,</span>
   <span id="f000276">with his associates,</span>
   <span id="f000277">for most of the poverty,</span>
   <span id="f000278">misery,</span>
   <span id="f000279">crime,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and national degradation with which the country was afflicted.</span>
   <span id="f000281">He was also a candidate for Parliament,</span>
   <span id="f000282">it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and as there was only one seat in this particular locality,</span>
   <span id="f000284">it was obvious that the success of either Robert or Sir John would mean a check to the ambitions of the other,</span>
   <span id="f000285">hence,</span>
   <span id="f000286">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000287">the rivalry and enmity between these otherwise kindred souls.</span>
   <span id="f000288">One was seeking to have his enemy done to death,</span>
   <span id="f000289">the other was apparently trying to stir up his supporters to an act of “Lynch law”.</span>
   <span id="f000290">All this in order that there might be an unopposed election,</span>
   <span id="f000291">that one or other of the candidates might go into Parliament with honeyed eloquence on his lips and blood on his heart.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Were men really so vile?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“I must go back to Webblehinton at once,” Alethia informed her astonished hostess at lunch time;</span>
   <span id="f000294">“I have had a telegram.</span>
   <span id="f000295">A friend is very seriously ill and I have been sent for.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">It was dreadful to have to concoct lies,</span>
   <span id="f000297">but it would be more dreadful to have to spend another night under that roof.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">Alethia reads novels now with even greater appreciation than before.</span>
   <span id="f000299">She has been herself in the world outside Webblehinton,</span>
   <span id="f000300">the world where the great dramas of sin and villainy are played unceasingly.</span>
   <span id="f000301">She had come unscathed through it,</span>
   <span id="f000302">but what might have happened if she had gone unsuspectingly to visit Sir John Chobham and warn him of his danger?</span>
   <span id="f000303">What indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000304">She had been saved by the fearless outspokenness of the local Press.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

