<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure VI<br />The Man With the Twisted Lip</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">Isa Whitney,</span>
   <span id="f000009">brother of the late Elias Whitney,</span>
   <span id="f000010">D.D.,</span>
   <span id="f000011">Principal of the Theological College of St.&#160;George’s,</span>
   <span id="f000012">was much addicted to opium.</span>
   <span id="f000013">The habit grew upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000014">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000015">from some foolish freak when he was at college;</span>
   <span id="f000016">for having read De Quincey’s description of his dreams and sensations,</span>
   <span id="f000017">he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce the same effects.</span>
   <span id="f000018">He found,</span>
   <span id="f000019">as so many more have done,</span>
   <span id="f000020">that the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and for many years he continued to be a slave to the drug,</span>
   <span id="f000022">an object of mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives.</span>
   <span id="f000023">I can see him now,</span>
   <span id="f000024">with yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000025">pasty face,</span>
   <span id="f000026">drooping lids,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and pin-point pupils,</span>
   <span id="f000028">all huddled in a chair,</span>
   <span id="f000029">the wreck and ruin of a noble man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">One night – it was in June,</span>
   <span id="f000031">’89 – there came a ring to my bell,</span>
   <span id="f000032">about the hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock.</span>
   <span id="f000033">I sat up in my chair,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">“A patient!” said she.</span>
   <span id="f000036">“You’ll have to go out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">I groaned,</span>
   <span id="f000038">for I was newly come back from a weary day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">We heard the door open,</span>
   <span id="f000040">a few hurried words,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and then quick steps upon the linoleum.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Our own door flew open,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and a lady,</span>
   <span id="f000044">clad in some dark-coloured stuff,</span>
   <span id="f000045">with a black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000046">entered the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“You will excuse my calling so late,” she began,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000049">suddenly losing her self-control,</span>
   <span id="f000050">she ran forward,</span>
   <span id="f000051">threw her arms about my wife’s neck,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and sobbed upon her shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000054">I’m in such trouble!” she cried;</span>
   <span id="f000055">“I do so want a little help.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">“Why,” said my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000057">pulling up her veil,</span>
   <span id="f000058">“it is Kate Whitney.</span>
   <span id="f000059">How you startled me,</span>
   <span id="f000060">Kate!</span>
   <span id="f000061">I had not an idea who you were when you came in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“I didn’t know what to do,</span>
   <span id="f000063">so I came straight to you.” That was always the way.</span>
   <span id="f000064">Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a light-house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“It was very sweet of you to come.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000067">you must have some wine and water,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Or should you rather that I sent James off to bed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000071">no,</span>
   <span id="f000072">no!</span>
   <span id="f000073">I want the doctor’s advice and help,</span>
   <span id="f000074">too.</span>
   <span id="f000075">It’s about Isa.</span>
   <span id="f000076">He has not been home for two days.</span>
   <span id="f000077">I am so frightened about him!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husband’s trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000079">to me as a doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000080">to my wife as an old friend and school companion.</span>
   <span id="f000081">We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Did she know where her husband was?</span>
   <span id="f000083">Was it possible that we could bring him back to her?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">It seems that it was.</span>
   <span id="f000085">She had the surest information that of late he had,</span>
   <span id="f000086">when the fit was on him,</span>
   <span id="f000087">made use of an opium den in the farthest east of the City.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one day,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and he had come back,</span>
   <span id="f000090">twitching and shattered,</span>
   <span id="f000091">in the evening.</span>
   <span id="f000092">But now the spell had been upon him eight-and-forty hours,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and he lay there,</span>
   <span id="f000094">doubtless among the dregs of the docks,</span>
   <span id="f000095">breathing in the poison or sleeping off the effects.</span>
   <span id="f000096">There he was to be found,</span>
   <span id="f000097">she was sure of it,</span>
   <span id="f000098">at the Bar of Gold,</span>
   <span id="f000099">in Upper Swandam Lane.</span>
   <span id="f000100">But what was she to do?</span>
   <span id="f000101">How could she,</span>
   <span id="f000102">a young and timid woman,</span>
   <span id="f000103">make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">There was the case,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and of course there was but one way out of it.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Might I not escort her to this place?</span>
   <span id="f000107">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000108">as a second thought,</span>
   <span id="f000109">why should she come at all?</span>
   <span id="f000110">I was Isa Whitney’s medical adviser,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and as such I had influence over him.</span>
   <span id="f000112">I could manage it better if I were alone.</span>
   <span id="f000113">I promised her on my word that I would send him home in a cab within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given me.</span>
   <span id="f000114">And so in ten minutes I had left my armchair and cheery sitting-room behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a strange errand,</span>
   <span id="f000116">as it seemed to me at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000117">though the future only could show how strange it was to be.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east of London Bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop,</span>
   <span id="f000121">approached by a steep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of a cave,</span>
   <span id="f000122">I found the den of which I was in search.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Ordering my cab to wait,</span>
   <span id="f000124">I passed down the steps,</span>
   <span id="f000125">worn hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken feet;</span>
   <span id="f000126">and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found the latch and made my way into a long,</span>
   <span id="f000127">low room,</span>
   <span id="f000128">thick and heavy with the brown opium smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and terraced with wooden berths,</span>
   <span id="f000130">like the forecastle of an emigrant ship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in strange fantastic poses,</span>
   <span id="f000132">bowed shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000133">bent knees,</span>
   <span id="f000134">heads thrown back,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and chins pointing upward,</span>
   <span id="f000136">with here and there a dark,</span>
   <span id="f000137">lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Out of the black shadows there glimmered little red circles of light,</span>
   <span id="f000139">now bright,</span>
   <span id="f000140">now faint,</span>
   <span id="f000141">as the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes.</span>
   <span id="f000142">The most lay silent,</span>
   <span id="f000143">but some muttered to themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and others talked together in a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000145">low,</span>
   <span id="f000146">monotonous voice,</span>
   <span id="f000147">their conversation coming in gushes,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and then suddenly tailing off into silence,</span>
   <span id="f000149">each mumbling out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his neighbour.</span>
   <span id="f000150">At the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal,</span>
   <span id="f000151">beside which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall,</span>
   <span id="f000152">thin old man,</span>
   <span id="f000153">with his jaw resting upon his two fists,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and his elbows upon his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000155">staring into the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">As I entered,</span>
   <span id="f000157">a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for me and a supply of the drug,</span>
   <span id="f000158">beckoning me to an empty berth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000160">I have not come to stay,” said I.</span>
   <span id="f000161">“There is a friend of mine here,</span>
   <span id="f000162">Mr.&#160;Isa Whitney,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and I wish to speak with him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">There was a movement and an exclamation from my right,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and peering through the gloom,</span>
   <span id="f000166">I saw Whitney,</span>
   <span id="f000167">pale,</span>
   <span id="f000168">haggard,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and unkempt,</span>
   <span id="f000170">staring out at me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“My God!</span>
   <span id="f000172">It’s Watson,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000173">He was in a pitiable state of reaction,</span>
   <span id="f000174">with every nerve in a twitter.</span>
   <span id="f000175">“I say,</span>
   <span id="f000176">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000177">what o’clock is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“Nearly eleven.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“Of what day?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“Of Friday,</span>
   <span id="f000181">June 19th.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Good heavens!</span>
   <span id="f000183">I thought it was Wednesday.</span>
   <span id="f000184">It is Wednesday.</span>
   <span id="f000185">What d’you want to frighten a chap for?” He sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“I tell you that it is Friday,</span>
   <span id="f000187">man.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Your wife has been waiting this two days for you.</span>
   <span id="f000189">You should be ashamed of yourself!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“So I am.</span>
   <span id="f000191">But you’ve got mixed,</span>
   <span id="f000192">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000193">for I have only been here a few hours,</span>
   <span id="f000194">three pipes,</span>
   <span id="f000195">four pipes – I forget how many.</span>
   <span id="f000196">But I’ll go home with you.</span>
   <span id="f000197">I wouldn’t frighten Kate – poor little Kate.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Give me your hand!</span>
   <span id="f000199">Have you a cab?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000201">I have one waiting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Then I shall go in it.</span>
   <span id="f000203">But I must owe something.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Find what I owe,</span>
   <span id="f000205">Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000206">I am all off colour.</span>
   <span id="f000207">I can do nothing for myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers,</span>
   <span id="f000209">holding my breath to keep out the vile,</span>
   <span id="f000210">stupefying fumes of the drug,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and looking about for the manager.</span>
   <span id="f000212">As I passed the tall man who sat by the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and a low voice whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000214">“Walk past me,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and then look back at me.” The words fell quite distinctly upon my ear.</span>
   <span id="f000216">I glanced down.</span>
   <span id="f000217">They could only have come from the old man at my side,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever,</span>
   <span id="f000219">very thin,</span>
   <span id="f000220">very wrinkled,</span>
   <span id="f000221">bent with age,</span>
   <span id="f000222">an opium pipe dangling down from between his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000223">as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude from his fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000224">I took two steps forward and looked back.</span>
   <span id="f000225">It took all my self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of astonishment.</span>
   <span id="f000226">He had turned his back so that none could see him but I.</span>
   <span id="f000227">His form had filled out,</span>
   <span id="f000228">his wrinkles were gone,</span>
   <span id="f000229">the dull eyes had regained their fire,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000231">sitting by the fire and grinning at my surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000232">was none other than Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000233">He made a slight motion to me to approach him,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and instantly,</span>
   <span id="f000235">as he turned his face half round to the company once more,</span>
   <span id="f000236">subsided into a doddering,</span>
   <span id="f000237">loose-lipped senility.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“Holmes!” I whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000239">“what on earth are you doing in this den?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">“As low as you can,” he answered;</span>
   <span id="f000241">“I have excellent ears.</span>
   <span id="f000242">If you would have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend of yours I should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“I have a cab outside.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“Then pray send him home in it.</span>
   <span id="f000245">You may safely trust him,</span>
   <span id="f000246">for he appears to be too limp to get into any mischief.</span>
   <span id="f000247">I should recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have thrown in your lot with me.</span>
   <span id="f000248">If you will wait outside,</span>
   <span id="f000249">I shall be with you in five minutes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes’ requests,</span>
   <span id="f000251">for they were always so exceedingly definite,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and put forward with such a quiet air of mastery.</span>
   <span id="f000253">I felt,</span>
   <span id="f000254">however,</span>
   <span id="f000255">that when Whitney was once confined in the cab my mission was practically accomplished;</span>
   <span id="f000256">and for the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000257">I could not wish anything better than to be associated with my friend in one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his existence.</span>
   <span id="f000258">In a few minutes I had written my note,</span>
   <span id="f000259">paid Whitney’s bill,</span>
   <span id="f000260">led him out to the cab,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and seen him driven through the darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000262">In a very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and I was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000264">For two streets he shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000266">glancing quickly round,</span>
   <span id="f000267">he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit of laughter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000269">Watson,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000270">“that you imagine that I have added opium-smoking to cocaine injections,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and all the other little weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical views.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">“I was certainly surprised to find you there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“But not more so than I to find you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“I came to find a friend.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“And I to find an enemy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">“An enemy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000278">one of my natural enemies,</span>
   <span id="f000279">or,</span>
   <span id="f000280">shall I say,</span>
   <span id="f000281">my natural prey.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Briefly,</span>
   <span id="f000283">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000284">I am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and I have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots,</span>
   <span id="f000286">as I have done before now.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Had I been recognised in that den my life would not have been worth an hour’s purchase;</span>
   <span id="f000288">for I have used it before now for my own purposes,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to have vengeance upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000290">There is a trap-door at the back of that building,</span>
   <span id="f000291">near the corner of Paul’s Wharf,</span>
   <span id="f000292">which could tell some strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“What!</span>
   <span id="f000294">You do not mean bodies?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000296">bodies,</span>
   <span id="f000297">Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000298">We should be rich men if we had 1000 pounds for every poor devil who has been done to death in that den.</span>
   <span id="f000299">It is the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and I fear that Neville St.&#160;Clair has entered it never to leave it more.</span>
   <span id="f000301">But our trap should be here.” He put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistled shrilly – a signal which was answered by a similar whistle from the distance,</span>
   <span id="f000302">followed shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses’ hoofs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000304">Watson,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000305">as a tall dog-cart dashed up through the gloom,</span>
   <span id="f000306">throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its side lanterns.</span>
   <span id="f000307">“You’ll come with me,</span>
   <span id="f000308">won’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“If I can be of use.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000311">a trusty comrade is always of use;</span>
   <span id="f000312">and a chronicler still more so.</span>
   <span id="f000313">My room at The Cedars is a double-bedded one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“The Cedars?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000316">that is Mr.&#160;St.&#160;Clair’s house.</span>
   <span id="f000317">I am staying there while I conduct the inquiry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“Where is it,</span>
   <span id="f000319">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“Near Lee,</span>
   <span id="f000321">in Kent.</span>
   <span id="f000322">We have a seven-mile drive before us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“But I am all in the dark.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">“Of course you are.</span>
   <span id="f000325">You’ll know all about it presently.</span>
   <span id="f000326">Jump up here.</span>
   <span id="f000327">All right,</span>
   <span id="f000328">John;</span>
   <span id="f000329">we shall not need you.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Here’s half a crown.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Look out for me to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000332">about eleven.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Give her her head.</span>
   <span id="f000334">So long,</span>
   <span id="f000335">then!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">He flicked the horse with his whip,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and we dashed away through the endless succession of sombre and deserted streets,</span>
   <span id="f000338">which widened gradually,</span>
   <span id="f000339">until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000340">with the murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us.</span>
   <span id="f000341">Beyond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and mortar,</span>
   <span id="f000342">its silence broken only by the heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000343">regular footfall of the policeman,</span>
   <span id="f000344">or the songs and shouts of some belated party of revellers.</span>
   <span id="f000345">A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts of the clouds.</span>
   <span id="f000347">Holmes drove in silence,</span>
   <span id="f000348">with his head sunk upon his breast,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and the air of a man who is lost in thought,</span>
   <span id="f000350">while I sat beside him,</span>
   <span id="f000351">curious to learn what this new quest might be which seemed to tax his powers so sorely,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and yet afraid to break in upon the current of his thoughts.</span>
   <span id="f000353">We had driven several miles,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and were beginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburban villas,</span>
   <span id="f000355">when he shook himself,</span>
   <span id="f000356">shrugged his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself that he is acting for the best.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">“You have a grand gift of silence,</span>
   <span id="f000359">Watson,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000360">“It makes you quite invaluable as a companion.</span>
   <span id="f000361">’Pon my word,</span>
   <span id="f000362">it is a great thing for me to have someone to talk to,</span>
   <span id="f000363">for my own thoughts are not over-pleasant.</span>
   <span id="f000364">I was wondering what I should say to this dear little woman to-night when she meets me at the door.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“You forget that I know nothing about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get to Lee.</span>
   <span id="f000367">It seems absurdly simple,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and yet,</span>
   <span id="f000369">somehow I can get nothing to go upon.</span>
   <span id="f000370">There’s plenty of thread,</span>
   <span id="f000371">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000372">but I can’t get the end of it into my hand.</span>
   <span id="f000373">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000374">I’ll state the case clearly and concisely to you,</span>
   <span id="f000375">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and maybe you can see a spark where all is dark to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“Proceed,</span>
   <span id="f000378">then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">Some years ago – to be definite,</span>
   <span id="f000380">in May,</span>
   <span id="f000381">1884 – there came to Lee a gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000382">Neville St.&#160;Clair by name,</span>
   <span id="f000383">who appeared to have plenty of money.</span>
   <span id="f000384">He took a large villa,</span>
   <span id="f000385">laid out the grounds very nicely,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and lived generally in good style.</span>
   <span id="f000387">By degrees he made friends in the neighbourhood,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and in 1887 he married the daughter of a local brewer,</span>
   <span id="f000389">by whom he now has two children.</span>
   <span id="f000390">He had no occupation,</span>
   <span id="f000391">but was interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000392">returning by the 5:14 from Cannon Street every night.</span>
   <span id="f000393">Mr.&#160;St.&#160;Clair is now thirty-seven years of age,</span>
   <span id="f000394">is a man of temperate habits,</span>
   <span id="f000395">a good husband,</span>
   <span id="f000396">a very affectionate father,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and a man who is popular with all who know him.</span>
   <span id="f000398">I may add that his whole debts at the present moment,</span>
   <span id="f000399">as far as we have been able to ascertain,</span>
   <span id="f000400">amount to 88 pounds 10s.,</span>
   <span id="f000401">while he has 220 pounds standing to his credit in the Capital and Counties Bank.</span>
   <span id="f000402">There is no reason,</span>
   <span id="f000403">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000404">to think that money troubles have been weighing upon his mind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Last Monday Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;Clair went into town rather earlier than usual,</span>
   <span id="f000406">remarking before he started that he had two important commissions to perform,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and that he would bring his little boy home a box of bricks.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000409">by the merest chance,</span>
   <span id="f000410">his wife received a telegram upon this same Monday,</span>
   <span id="f000411">very shortly after his departure,</span>
   <span id="f000412">to the effect that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting was waiting for her at the offices of the Aberdeen Shipping Company.</span>
   <span id="f000413">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000414">if you are well up in your London,</span>
   <span id="f000415">you will know that the office of the company is in Fresno Street,</span>
   <span id="f000416">which branches out of Upper Swandam Lane,</span>
   <span id="f000417">where you found me to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000418">Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair had her lunch,</span>
   <span id="f000419">started for the City,</span>
   <span id="f000420">did some shopping,</span>
   <span id="f000421">proceeded to the company’s office,</span>
   <span id="f000422">got her packet,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and found herself at exactly 4:35 walking through Swandam Lane on her way back to the station.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Have you followed me so far?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“It is very clear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">If you remember,</span>
   <span id="f000427">Monday was an exceedingly hot day,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair walked slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000429">glancing about in the hope of seeing a cab,</span>
   <span id="f000430">as she did not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself.</span>
   <span id="f000431">While she was walking in this way down Swandam Lane,</span>
   <span id="f000432">she suddenly heard an ejaculation or cry,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and was struck cold to see her husband looking down at her and,</span>
   <span id="f000434">as it seemed to her,</span>
   <span id="f000435">beckoning to her from a second-floor window.</span>
   <span id="f000436">The window was open,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and she distinctly saw his face,</span>
   <span id="f000438">which she describes as being terribly agitated.</span>
   <span id="f000439">He waved his hands frantically to her,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to her that he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from behind.</span>
   <span id="f000441">One singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that although he wore some dark coat,</span>
   <span id="f000442">such as he had started to town in,</span>
   <span id="f000443">he had on neither collar nor necktie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">Convinced that something was amiss with him,</span>
   <span id="f000445">she rushed down the steps – for the house was none other than the opium den in which you found me to-night – and running through the front room she attempted to ascend the stairs which led to the first floor.</span>
   <span id="f000446">At the foot of the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000447">however,</span>
   <span id="f000448">she met this Lascar scoundrel of whom I have spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000449">who thrust her back and,</span>
   <span id="f000450">aided by a Dane,</span>
   <span id="f000451">who acts as assistant there,</span>
   <span id="f000452">pushed her out into the street.</span>
   <span id="f000453">Filled with the most maddening doubts and fears,</span>
   <span id="f000454">she rushed down the lane and,</span>
   <span id="f000455">by rare good-fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000456">met in Fresno Street a number of constables with an inspector,</span>
   <span id="f000457">all on their way to their beat.</span>
   <span id="f000458">The inspector and two men accompanied her back,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor,</span>
   <span id="f000460">they made their way to the room in which Mr.&#160;St.&#160;Clair had last been seen.</span>
   <span id="f000461">There was no sign of him there.</span>
   <span id="f000462">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000463">in the whole of that floor there was no one to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect,</span>
   <span id="f000464">who,</span>
   <span id="f000465">it seems,</span>
   <span id="f000466">made his home there.</span>
   <span id="f000467">Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000468">So determined was their denial that the inspector was staggered,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and had almost come to believe that Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair had been deluded when,</span>
   <span id="f000470">with a cry,</span>
   <span id="f000471">she sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid from it.</span>
   <span id="f000472">Out there fell a cascade of children’s bricks.</span>
   <span id="f000473">It was the toy which he had promised to bring home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">This discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and the evident confusion which the cripple showed,</span>
   <span id="f000476">made the inspector realise that the matter was serious.</span>
   <span id="f000477">The rooms were carefully examined,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and results all pointed to an abominable crime.</span>
   <span id="f000479">The front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led into a small bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000480">which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves.</span>
   <span id="f000481">Between the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip,</span>
   <span id="f000482">which is dry at low tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of water.</span>
   <span id="f000483">The bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below.</span>
   <span id="f000484">On examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the bedroom.</span>
   <span id="f000486">Thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the clothes of Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;Clair,</span>
   <span id="f000487">with the exception of his coat.</span>
   <span id="f000488">His boots,</span>
   <span id="f000489">his socks,</span>
   <span id="f000490">his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and his watch – all were there.</span>
   <span id="f000492">There were no signs of violence upon any of these garments,</span>
   <span id="f000493">and there were no other traces of Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;Clair.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Out of the window he must apparently have gone for no other exit could be discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and the ominous bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save himself by swimming,</span>
   <span id="f000496">for the tide was at its very highest at the moment of the tragedy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately implicated in the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000498">The Lascar was known to be a man of the vilest antecedents,</span>
   <span id="f000499">but as,</span>
   <span id="f000500">by Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair’s story,</span>
   <span id="f000501">he was known to have been at the foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husband’s appearance at the window,</span>
   <span id="f000502">he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the crime.</span>
   <span id="f000503">His defence was one of absolute ignorance,</span>
   <span id="f000504">and he protested that he had no knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone,</span>
   <span id="f000505">his lodger,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and that he could not account in any way for the presence of the missing gentleman’s clothes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">“So much for the Lascar manager.</span>
   <span id="f000508">Now for the sinister cripple who lives upon the second floor of the opium den,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and who was certainly the last human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St.&#160;Clair.</span>
   <span id="f000510">His name is Hugh Boone,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who goes much to the City.</span>
   <span id="f000512">He is a professional beggar,</span>
   <span id="f000513">though in order to avoid the police regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax vestas.</span>
   <span id="f000514">Some little distance down Threadneedle Street,</span>
   <span id="f000515">upon the left-hand side,</span>
   <span id="f000516">there is,</span>
   <span id="f000517">as you may have remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000518">a small angle in the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000519">Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat,</span>
   <span id="f000520">cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and as he is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him.</span>
   <span id="f000522">I have watched the fellow more than once before ever I thought of making his professional acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and I have been surprised at the harvest which he has reaped in a short time.</span>
   <span id="f000524">His appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000525">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000526">is so remarkable that no one can pass him without observing him.</span>
   <span id="f000527">A shock of orange hair,</span>
   <span id="f000528">a pale face disfigured by a horrible scar,</span>
   <span id="f000529">which,</span>
   <span id="f000530">by its contraction,</span>
   <span id="f000531">has turned up the outer edge of his upper lip,</span>
   <span id="f000532">a bulldog chin,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and a pair of very penetrating dark eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000534">which present a singular contrast to the colour of his hair,</span>
   <span id="f000535">all mark him out from amid the common crowd of mendicants and so,</span>
   <span id="f000536">too,</span>
   <span id="f000537">does his wit,</span>
   <span id="f000538">for he is ever ready with a reply to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers-by.</span>
   <span id="f000539">This is the man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium den,</span>
   <span id="f000540">and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are in quest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">“But a cripple!” said I.</span>
   <span id="f000542">“What could he have done single-handed against a man in the prime of life?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">“He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp;</span>
   <span id="f000544">but in other respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man.</span>
   <span id="f000545">Surely your medical experience would tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000546">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000547">that weakness in one limb is often compensated for by exceptional strength in the others.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“Pray continue your narrative.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and she was escorted home in a cab by the police,</span>
   <span id="f000551">as her presence could be of no help to them in their investigations.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Inspector Barton,</span>
   <span id="f000553">who had charge of the case,</span>
   <span id="f000554">made a very careful examination of the premises,</span>
   <span id="f000555">but without finding anything which threw any light upon the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000556">One mistake had been made in not arresting Boone instantly,</span>
   <span id="f000557">as he was allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated with his friend the Lascar,</span>
   <span id="f000558">but this fault was soon remedied,</span>
   <span id="f000559">and he was seized and searched,</span>
   <span id="f000560">without anything being found which could incriminate him.</span>
   <span id="f000561">There were,</span>
   <span id="f000562">it is true,</span>
   <span id="f000563">some blood-stains upon his right shirt-sleeve,</span>
   <span id="f000564">but he pointed to his ring-finger,</span>
   <span id="f000565">which had been cut near the nail,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and explained that the bleeding came from there,</span>
   <span id="f000567">adding that he had been to the window not long before,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and that the stains which had been observed there came doubtless from the same source.</span>
   <span id="f000569">He denied strenuously having ever seen Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;Clair and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a mystery to him as to the police.</span>
   <span id="f000570">As to Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair’s assertion that she had actually seen her husband at the window,</span>
   <span id="f000571">he declared that she must have been either mad or dreaming.</span>
   <span id="f000572">He was removed,</span>
   <span id="f000573">loudly protesting,</span>
   <span id="f000574">to the police-station,</span>
   <span id="f000575">while the inspector remained upon the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">“And it did,</span>
   <span id="f000577">though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what they had feared to find.</span>
   <span id="f000578">It was Neville St.&#160;Clair’s coat,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and not Neville St.&#160;Clair,</span>
   <span id="f000580">which lay uncovered as the tide receded.</span>
   <span id="f000581">And what do you think they found in the pockets?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">“I cannot imagine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000584">I don’t think you would guess.</span>
   <span id="f000585">Every pocket stuffed with pennies and half-pennies – 421 pennies and 270 half-pennies.</span>
   <span id="f000586">It was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide.</span>
   <span id="f000587">But a human body is a different matter.</span>
   <span id="f000588">There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the house.</span>
   <span id="f000589">It seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remained when the stripped body had been sucked away into the river.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room.</span>
   <span id="f000591">Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000593">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000594">but the facts might be met speciously enough.</span>
   <span id="f000595">Suppose that this man Boone had thrust Neville St.&#160;Clair through the window,</span>
   <span id="f000596">there is no human eye which could have seen the deed.</span>
   <span id="f000597">What would he do then?</span>
   <span id="f000598">It would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments.</span>
   <span id="f000599">He would seize the coat,</span>
   <span id="f000600">then,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and be in the act of throwing it out,</span>
   <span id="f000602">when it would occur to him that it would swim and not sink.</span>
   <span id="f000603">He has little time,</span>
   <span id="f000604">for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when the wife tried to force her way up,</span>
   <span id="f000605">and perhaps he has already heard from his Lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street.</span>
   <span id="f000606">There is not an instant to be lost.</span>
   <span id="f000607">He rushes to some secret hoard,</span>
   <span id="f000608">where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary,</span>
   <span id="f000609">and he stuffs all the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure of the coat’s sinking.</span>
   <span id="f000610">He throws it out,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and would have done the same with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below,</span>
   <span id="f000612">and only just had time to close the window when the police appeared.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">“It certainly sounds feasible.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000615">we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better.</span>
   <span id="f000616">Boone,</span>
   <span id="f000617">as I have told you,</span>
   <span id="f000618">was arrested and taken to the station,</span>
   <span id="f000619">but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against him.</span>
   <span id="f000620">He had for years been known as a professional beggar,</span>
   <span id="f000621">but his life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one.</span>
   <span id="f000622">There the matter stands at present,</span>
   <span id="f000623">and the questions which have to be solved – what Neville St.&#160;Clair was doing in the opium den,</span>
   <span id="f000624">what happened to him when there,</span>
   <span id="f000625">where is he now,</span>
   <span id="f000626">and what Hugh Boone had to do with his disappearance – are all as far from a solution as ever.</span>
   <span id="f000627">I confess that I cannot recall any case within my experience which looked at the first glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000628">While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of events,</span>
   <span id="f000629">we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great town until the last straggling houses had been left behind,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and we rattled along with a country hedge upon either side of us.</span>
   <span id="f000631">Just as he finished,</span>
   <span id="f000632">however,</span>
   <span id="f000633">we drove through two scattered villages,</span>
   <span id="f000634">where a few lights still glimmered in the windows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">“We are on the outskirts of Lee,” said my companion.</span>
   <span id="f000636">“We have touched on three English counties in our short drive,</span>
   <span id="f000637">starting in Middlesex,</span>
   <span id="f000638">passing over an angle of Surrey,</span>
   <span id="f000639">and ending in Kent.</span>
   <span id="f000640">See that light among the trees?</span>
   <span id="f000641">That is The Cedars,</span>
   <span id="f000642">and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already,</span>
   <span id="f000643">I have little doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000644">caught the clink of our horse’s feet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">“But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here.</span>
   <span id="f000647">Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and you may rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and colleague.</span>
   <span id="f000649">I hate to meet her,</span>
   <span id="f000650">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000651">when I have no news of her husband.</span>
   <span id="f000652">Here we are.</span>
   <span id="f000653">Whoa,</span>
   <span id="f000654">there,</span>
   <span id="f000655">whoa!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its own grounds.</span>
   <span id="f000657">A stable-boy had run out to the horse’s head,</span>
   <span id="f000658">and springing down,</span>
   <span id="f000659">I followed Holmes up the small,</span>
   <span id="f000660">winding gravel-drive which led to the house.</span>
   <span id="f000661">As we approached,</span>
   <span id="f000662">the door flew open,</span>
   <span id="f000663">and a little blonde woman stood in the opening,</span>
   <span id="f000664">clad in some sort of light mousseline de soie,</span>
   <span id="f000665">with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists.</span>
   <span id="f000666">She stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light,</span>
   <span id="f000667">one hand upon the door,</span>
   <span id="f000668">one half-raised in her eagerness,</span>
   <span id="f000669">her body slightly bent,</span>
   <span id="f000670">her head and face protruded,</span>
   <span id="f000671">with eager eyes and parted lips,</span>
   <span id="f000672">a standing question.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“Well?” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000674">“well?” And then,</span>
   <span id="f000675">seeing that there were two of us,</span>
   <span id="f000676">she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">“No good news?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">“None.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">“No bad?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000680">“No.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“Thank God for that.</span>
   <span id="f000682">But come in.</span>
   <span id="f000683">You must be weary,</span>
   <span id="f000684">for you have had a long day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">“This is my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000686">Dr.&#160;Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000687">He has been of most vital use to me in several of my cases,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this investigation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000689">“I am delighted to see you,” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000690">pressing my hand warmly.</span>
   <span id="f000691">“You will,</span>
   <span id="f000692">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f000693">forgive anything that may be wanting in our arrangements,</span>
   <span id="f000694">when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly upon us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000695">“My dear madam,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000696">“I am an old campaigner,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and if I were not I can very well see that no apology is needed.</span>
   <span id="f000698">If I can be of any assistance,</span>
   <span id="f000699">either to you or to my friend here,</span>
   <span id="f000700">I shall be indeed happy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000702">Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes,” said the lady as we entered a well-lit dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000703">upon the table of which a cold supper had been laid out,</span>
   <span id="f000704">“I should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions,</span>
   <span id="f000705">to which I beg that you will give a plain answer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000706">“Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000707">madam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000708">“Do not trouble about my feelings.</span>
   <span id="f000709">I am not hysterical,</span>
   <span id="f000710">nor given to fainting.</span>
   <span id="f000711">I simply wish to hear your real,</span>
   <span id="f000712">real opinion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“Upon what point?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000714">“In your heart of hearts,</span>
   <span id="f000715">do you think that Neville is alive?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question.</span>
   <span id="f000717">“Frankly,</span>
   <span id="f000718">now!” she repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000719">standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at him as he leaned back in a basket-chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000720">“Frankly,</span>
   <span id="f000721">then,</span>
   <span id="f000722">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000723">I do not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">“You think that he is dead?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“I do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000726">“Murdered?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000727">“I don’t say that.</span>
   <span id="f000728">Perhaps.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">“And on what day did he meet his death?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">“On Monday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">“Then perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000732">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000733">you will be good enough to explain how it is that I have received a letter from him to-day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000734">Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">“What!” he roared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000736">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000737">to-day.” She stood smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000738">holding up a little slip of paper in the air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">“May I see it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“Certainly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000741">He snatched it from her in his eagerness,</span>
   <span id="f000742">and smoothing it out upon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently.</span>
   <span id="f000743">I had left my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000744">The envelope was a very coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and with the date of that very day,</span>
   <span id="f000745">or rather of the day before,</span>
   <span id="f000746">for it was considerably after midnight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000747">“Coarse writing,” murmured Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000748">“Surely this is not your husband’s writing,</span>
   <span id="f000749">madam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000751">but the enclosure is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and inquire as to the address.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">“How can you tell that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“The name,</span>
   <span id="f000755">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000756">is in perfectly black ink,</span>
   <span id="f000757">which has dried itself.</span>
   <span id="f000758">The rest is of the greyish colour,</span>
   <span id="f000759">which shows that blotting-paper has been used.</span>
   <span id="f000760">If it had been written straight off,</span>
   <span id="f000761">and then blotted,</span>
   <span id="f000762">none would be of a deep black shade.</span>
   <span id="f000763">This man has written the name,</span>
   <span id="f000764">and there has then been a pause before he wrote the address,</span>
   <span id="f000765">which can only mean that he was not familiar with it.</span>
   <span id="f000766">It is,</span>
   <span id="f000767">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000768">a trifle,</span>
   <span id="f000769">but there is nothing so important as trifles.</span>
   <span id="f000770">Let us now see the letter.</span>
   <span id="f000771">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000772">there has been an enclosure here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000773">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000774">there was a ring.</span>
   <span id="f000775">His signet-ring.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000776">“And you are sure that this is your husband’s hand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000777">“One of his hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">“One?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">“His hand when he wrote hurriedly.</span>
   <span id="f000780">It is very unlike his usual writing,</span>
   <span id="f000781">and yet I know it well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000782">“’Dearest do not be frightened.</span>
   <span id="f000783">All will come well.</span>
   <span id="f000784">There is a huge error which it may take some little time to rectify.</span>
   <span id="f000785">Wait in patience.</span>
   <span id="f000786">– NEVILLE.’ Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf of a book,</span>
   <span id="f000787">octavo size,</span>
   <span id="f000788">no water-mark.</span>
   <span id="f000789">Hum!</span>
   <span id="f000790">Posted to-day in Gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb.</span>
   <span id="f000791">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000792">And the flap has been gummed,</span>
   <span id="f000793">if I am not very much in error,</span>
   <span id="f000794">by a person who had been chewing tobacco.</span>
   <span id="f000795">And you have no doubt that it is your husband’s hand,</span>
   <span id="f000796">madam?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">“None.</span>
   <span id="f000798">Neville wrote those words.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">“And they were posted to-day at Gravesend.</span>
   <span id="f000800">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000801">Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair,</span>
   <span id="f000802">the clouds lighten,</span>
   <span id="f000803">though I should not venture to say that the danger is over.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“But he must be alive,</span>
   <span id="f000805">Mr.&#160;Holmes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">“Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent.</span>
   <span id="f000807">The ring,</span>
   <span id="f000808">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000809">proves nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000810">It may have been taken from him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000812">no;</span>
   <span id="f000813">it is,</span>
   <span id="f000814">it is his very own writing!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">“Very well.</span>
   <span id="f000816">It may,</span>
   <span id="f000817">however,</span>
   <span id="f000818">have been written on Monday and only posted to-day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000819">“That is possible.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">“If so,</span>
   <span id="f000821">much may have happened between.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000823">you must not discourage me,</span>
   <span id="f000824">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000825">I know that all is well with him.</span>
   <span id="f000826">There is so keen a sympathy between us that I should know if evil came upon him.</span>
   <span id="f000827">On the very day that I saw him last he cut himself in the bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certainty that something had happened.</span>
   <span id="f000829">Do you think that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">“I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner.</span>
   <span id="f000831">And in this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to corroborate your view.</span>
   <span id="f000832">But if your husband is alive and able to write letters,</span>
   <span id="f000833">why should he remain away from you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000834">“I cannot imagine.</span>
   <span id="f000835">It is unthinkable.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">“And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">“No.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000838">“And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">“Very much so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000840">“Was the window open?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000841">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000842">“Then he might have called to you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000843">“He might.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000844">“He only,</span>
   <span id="f000845">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000846">gave an inarticulate cry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000847">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000848">“A call for help,</span>
   <span id="f000849">you thought?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000851">He waved his hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">“But it might have been a cry of surprise.</span>
   <span id="f000853">Astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000854">“It is possible.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">“And you thought he was pulled back?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000856">“He disappeared so suddenly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000857">“He might have leaped back.</span>
   <span id="f000858">You did not see anyone else in the room?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000859">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000860">but this horrible man confessed to having been there,</span>
   <span id="f000861">and the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000862">“Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000863">Your husband,</span>
   <span id="f000864">as far as you could see,</span>
   <span id="f000865">had his ordinary clothes on?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000866">“But without his collar or tie.</span>
   <span id="f000867">I distinctly saw his bare throat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000868">“Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000869">“Never.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000870">“Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000871">“Never.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">“Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000873">Mrs.&#160;St.&#160;Clair.</span>
   <span id="f000874">Those are the principal points about which I wished to be absolutely clear.</span>
   <span id="f000875">We shall now have a little supper and then retire,</span>
   <span id="f000876">for we may have a very busy day to-morrow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our disposal,</span>
   <span id="f000878">and I was quickly between the sheets,</span>
   <span id="f000879">for I was weary after my night of adventure.</span>
   <span id="f000880">Sherlock Holmes was a man,</span>
   <span id="f000881">however,</span>
   <span id="f000882">who,</span>
   <span id="f000883">when he had an unsolved problem upon his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000884">would go for days,</span>
   <span id="f000885">and even for a week,</span>
   <span id="f000886">without rest,</span>
   <span id="f000887">turning it over,</span>
   <span id="f000888">rearranging his facts,</span>
   <span id="f000889">looking at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or convinced himself that his data were insufficient.</span>
   <span id="f000890">It was soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an all-night sitting.</span>
   <span id="f000891">He took off his coat and waistcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000892">put on a large blue dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000893">and then wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs.</span>
   <span id="f000894">With these he constructed a sort of Eastern divan,</span>
   <span id="f000895">upon which he perched himself cross-legged,</span>
   <span id="f000896">with an ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front of him.</span>
   <span id="f000897">In the dim light of the lamp I saw him sitting there,</span>
   <span id="f000898">an old briar pipe between his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000899">his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f000900">the blue smoke curling up from him,</span>
   <span id="f000901">silent,</span>
   <span id="f000902">motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000903">with the light shining upon his strong-set aquiline features.</span>
   <span id="f000904">So he sat as I dropped off to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000905">and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up,</span>
   <span id="f000906">and I found the summer sun shining into the apartment.</span>
   <span id="f000907">The pipe was still between his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000908">the smoke still curled upward,</span>
   <span id="f000909">and the room was full of a dense tobacco haze,</span>
   <span id="f000910">but nothing remained of the heap of shag which I had seen upon the previous night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">“Awake,</span>
   <span id="f000912">Watson?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000913">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000914">“Game for a morning drive?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000915">“Certainly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000916">“Then dress.</span>
   <span id="f000917">No one is stirring yet,</span>
   <span id="f000918">but I know where the stable-boy sleeps,</span>
   <span id="f000919">and we shall soon have the trap out.” He chuckled to himself as he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000920">his eyes twinkled,</span>
   <span id="f000921">and he seemed a different man to the sombre thinker of the previous night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000922">As I dressed I glanced at my watch.</span>
   <span id="f000923">It was no wonder that no one was stirring.</span>
   <span id="f000924">It was twenty-five minutes past four.</span>
   <span id="f000925">I had hardly finished when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the horse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000926">“I want to test a little theory of mine,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000927">pulling on his boots.</span>
   <span id="f000928">“I think,</span>
   <span id="f000929">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000930">that you are now standing in the presence of one of the most absolute fools in Europe.</span>
   <span id="f000931">I deserve to be kicked from here to Charing Cross.</span>
   <span id="f000932">But I think I have the key of the affair now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000933">“And where is it?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000934">smiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000935">“In the bathroom,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000936">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000937">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000938">I am not joking,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000939">seeing my look of incredulity.</span>
   <span id="f000940">“I have just been there,</span>
   <span id="f000941">and I have taken it out,</span>
   <span id="f000942">and I have got it in this Gladstone bag.</span>
   <span id="f000943">Come on,</span>
   <span id="f000944">my boy,</span>
   <span id="f000945">and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000946">We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible,</span>
   <span id="f000947">and out into the bright morning sunshine.</span>
   <span id="f000948">In the road stood our horse and trap,</span>
   <span id="f000949">with the half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head.</span>
   <span id="f000950">We both sprang in,</span>
   <span id="f000951">and away we dashed down the London Road.</span>
   <span id="f000952">A few country carts were stirring,</span>
   <span id="f000953">bearing in vegetables to the metropolis,</span>
   <span id="f000954">but the lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000955">“It has been in some points a singular case,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000956">flicking the horse on into a gallop.</span>
   <span id="f000957">“I confess that I have been as blind as a mole,</span>
   <span id="f000958">but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily from their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey side.</span>
   <span id="f000960">Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river,</span>
   <span id="f000961">and dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found ourselves in Bow Street.</span>
   <span id="f000962">Sherlock Holmes was well known to the force,</span>
   <span id="f000963">and the two constables at the door saluted him.</span>
   <span id="f000964">One of them held the horse’s head while the other led us in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000965">“Who is on duty?” asked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000966">“Inspector Bradstreet,</span>
   <span id="f000967">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000968">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000969">Bradstreet,</span>
   <span id="f000970">how are you?” A tall,</span>
   <span id="f000971">stout official had come down the stone-flagged passage,</span>
   <span id="f000972">in a peaked cap and frogged jacket.</span>
   <span id="f000973">“I wish to have a quiet word with you,</span>
   <span id="f000974">Bradstreet.” “Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000975">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000976">Step into my room here.” It was a small,</span>
   <span id="f000977">office-like room,</span>
   <span id="f000978">with a huge ledger upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000979">and a telephone projecting from the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000980">The inspector sat down at his desk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“What can I do for you,</span>
   <span id="f000982">Mr.&#160;Holmes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000983">“I called about that beggarman,</span>
   <span id="f000984">Boone – the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;Clair,</span>
   <span id="f000985">of Lee.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000986">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000987">He was brought up and remanded for further inquiries.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000988">“So I heard.</span>
   <span id="f000989">You have him here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000990">“In the cells.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000991">“Is he quiet?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000992">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000993">he gives no trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000994">But he is a dirty scoundrel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000995">“Dirty?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000996">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000997">it is all we can do to make him wash his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000998">and his face is as black as a tinker’s.</span>
   <span id="f000999">Well,</span>
   <span id="f001000">when once his case has been settled,</span>
   <span id="f001001">he will have a regular prison bath;</span>
   <span id="f001002">and I think,</span>
   <span id="f001003">if you saw him,</span>
   <span id="f001004">you would agree with me that he needed it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001005">“I should like to see him very much.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001006">“Would you?</span>
   <span id="f001007">That is easily done.</span>
   <span id="f001008">Come this way.</span>
   <span id="f001009">You can leave your bag.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001010">“No,</span>
   <span id="f001011">I think that I’ll take it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001012">“Very good.</span>
   <span id="f001013">Come this way,</span>
   <span id="f001014">if you please.” He led us down a passage,</span>
   <span id="f001015">opened a barred door,</span>
   <span id="f001016">passed down a winding stair,</span>
   <span id="f001017">and brought us to a whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001018">“The third on the right is his,” said the inspector.</span>
   <span id="f001019">“Here it is!” He quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced through.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001020">“He is asleep,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f001021">“You can see him very well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001022">We both put our eyes to the grating.</span>
   <span id="f001023">The prisoner lay with his face towards us,</span>
   <span id="f001024">in a very deep sleep,</span>
   <span id="f001025">breathing slowly and heavily.</span>
   <span id="f001026">He was a middle-sized man,</span>
   <span id="f001027">coarsely clad as became his calling,</span>
   <span id="f001028">with a coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat.</span>
   <span id="f001029">He was,</span>
   <span id="f001030">as the inspector had said,</span>
   <span id="f001031">extremely dirty,</span>
   <span id="f001032">but the grime which covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness.</span>
   <span id="f001033">A broad wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin,</span>
   <span id="f001034">and by its contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip,</span>
   <span id="f001035">so that three teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl.</span>
   <span id="f001036">A shock of very bright red hair grew low over his eyes and forehead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001037">“He’s a beauty,</span>
   <span id="f001038">isn’t he?” said the inspector.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001039">“He certainly needs a wash,” remarked Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f001040">“I had an idea that he might,</span>
   <span id="f001041">and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me.” He opened the Gladstone bag as he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f001042">and took out,</span>
   <span id="f001043">to my astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f001044">a very large bath-sponge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001045">“He!</span>
   <span id="f001046">he!</span>
   <span id="f001047">You are a funny one,” chuckled the inspector.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001048">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f001049">if you will have the great goodness to open that door very quietly,</span>
   <span id="f001050">we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001051">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001052">I don’t know why not,” said the inspector.</span>
   <span id="f001053">“He doesn’t look a credit to the Bow Street cells,</span>
   <span id="f001054">does he?” He slipped his key into the lock,</span>
   <span id="f001055">and we all very quietly entered the cell.</span>
   <span id="f001056">The sleeper half turned,</span>
   <span id="f001057">and then settled down once more into a deep slumber.</span>
   <span id="f001058">Holmes stooped to the water-jug,</span>
   <span id="f001059">moistened his sponge,</span>
   <span id="f001060">and then rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the prisoner’s face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001061">“Let me introduce you,” he shouted,</span>
   <span id="f001062">“to Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;Clair,</span>
   <span id="f001063">of Lee,</span>
   <span id="f001064">in the county of Kent.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001065">Never in my life have I seen such a sight.</span>
   <span id="f001066">The man’s face peeled off under the sponge like the bark from a tree.</span>
   <span id="f001067">Gone was the coarse brown tint!</span>
   <span id="f001068">Gone,</span>
   <span id="f001069">too,</span>
   <span id="f001070">was the horrid scar which had seamed it across,</span>
   <span id="f001071">and the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face!</span>
   <span id="f001072">A twitch brought away the tangled red hair,</span>
   <span id="f001073">and there,</span>
   <span id="f001074">sitting up in his bed,</span>
   <span id="f001075">was a pale,</span>
   <span id="f001076">sad-faced,</span>
   <span id="f001077">refined-looking man,</span>
   <span id="f001078">black-haired and smooth-skinned,</span>
   <span id="f001079">rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy bewilderment.</span>
   <span id="f001080">Then suddenly realising the exposure,</span>
   <span id="f001081">he broke into a scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001082">“Great heavens!” cried the inspector,</span>
   <span id="f001083">“it is,</span>
   <span id="f001084">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f001085">the missing man.</span>
   <span id="f001086">I know him from the photograph.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001087">The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself to his destiny.</span>
   <span id="f001088">“Be it so,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f001089">“And pray what am I charged with?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001090">“With making away with Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;– Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001091">come,</span>
   <span id="f001092">you can’t be charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it,” said the inspector with a grin.</span>
   <span id="f001093">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001094">I have been twenty-seven years in the force,</span>
   <span id="f001095">but this really takes the cake.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001096">“If I am Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;Clair,</span>
   <span id="f001097">then it is obvious that no crime has been committed,</span>
   <span id="f001098">and that,</span>
   <span id="f001099">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f001100">I am illegally detained.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001101">“No crime,</span>
   <span id="f001102">but a very great error has been committed,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f001103">“You would have done better to have trusted your wife.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001104">“It was not the wife;</span>
   <span id="f001105">it was the children,” groaned the prisoner.</span>
   <span id="f001106">“God help me,</span>
   <span id="f001107">I would not have them ashamed of their father.</span>
   <span id="f001108">My God!</span>
   <span id="f001109">What an exposure!</span>
   <span id="f001110">What can I do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001111">Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001112">“If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f001113">“of course you can hardly avoid publicity.</span>
   <span id="f001114">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f001115">if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against you,</span>
   <span id="f001116">I do not know that there is any reason that the details should find their way into the papers.</span>
   <span id="f001117">Inspector Bradstreet would,</span>
   <span id="f001118">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f001119">make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the proper authorities.</span>
   <span id="f001120">The case would then never go into court at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001121">“God bless you!” cried the prisoner passionately.</span>
   <span id="f001122">"I would have endured imprisonment,</span>
   <span id="f001123">ay,</span>
   <span id="f001124">even execution,</span>
   <span id="f001125">rather than have left my miserable secret as a family blot to my children.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001126">You are the first who have ever heard my story.</span>
   <span id="f001127">My father was a schoolmaster in Chesterfield,</span>
   <span id="f001128">where I received an excellent education.</span>
   <span id="f001129">I travelled in my youth,</span>
   <span id="f001130">took to the stage,</span>
   <span id="f001131">and finally became a reporter on an evening paper in London.</span>
   <span id="f001132">One day my editor wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis,</span>
   <span id="f001133">and I volunteered to supply them.</span>
   <span id="f001134">There was the point from which all my adventures started.</span>
   <span id="f001135">It was only by trying begging as an amateur that I could get the facts upon which to base my articles.</span>
   <span id="f001136">When an actor I had,</span>
   <span id="f001137">of course,</span>
   <span id="f001138">learned all the secrets of making up,</span>
   <span id="f001139">and had been famous in the green-room for my skill.</span>
   <span id="f001140">I took advantage now of my attainments.</span>
   <span id="f001141">I painted my face,</span>
   <span id="f001142">and to make myself as pitiable as possible I made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip of flesh-coloured plaster.</span>
   <span id="f001143">Then with a red head of hair,</span>
   <span id="f001144">and an appropriate dress,</span>
   <span id="f001145">I took my station in the business part of the city,</span>
   <span id="f001146">ostensibly as a match-seller but really as a beggar.</span>
   <span id="f001147">For seven hours I plied my trade,</span>
   <span id="f001148">and when I returned home in the evening I found to my surprise that I had received no less than 26s.</span>
   <span id="f001149">4d.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001150">I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until,</span>
   <span id="f001151">some time later,</span>
   <span id="f001152">I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me for 25 pounds.</span>
   <span id="f001153">I was at my wit’s end where to get the money,</span>
   <span id="f001154">but a sudden idea came to me.</span>
   <span id="f001155">I begged a fortnight’s grace from the creditor,</span>
   <span id="f001156">asked for a holiday from my employers,</span>
   <span id="f001157">and spent the time in begging in the City under my disguise.</span>
   <span id="f001158">In ten days I had the money and had paid the debt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001159">Well,</span>
   <span id="f001160">you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work at 2 pounds a week when I knew that I could earn as much in a day by smearing my face with a little paint,</span>
   <span id="f001161">laying my cap on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f001162">and sitting still.</span>
   <span id="f001163">It was a long fight between my pride and the money,</span>
   <span id="f001164">but the dollars won at last,</span>
   <span id="f001165">and I threw up reporting and sat day after day in the corner which I had first chosen,</span>
   <span id="f001166">inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my pockets with coppers.</span>
   <span id="f001167">Only one man knew my secret.</span>
   <span id="f001168">He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge in Swandam Lane,</span>
   <span id="f001169">where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings transform myself into a well-dressed man about town.</span>
   <span id="f001170">This fellow,</span>
   <span id="f001171">a Lascar,</span>
   <span id="f001172">was well paid by me for his rooms,</span>
   <span id="f001173">so that I knew that my secret was safe in his possession.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001174">Well,</span>
   <span id="f001175">very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums of money.</span>
   <span id="f001176">I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London could earn 700 pounds a year – which is less than my average takings – but I had exceptional advantages in my power of making up,</span>
   <span id="f001177">and also in a facility of repartee,</span>
   <span id="f001178">which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised character in the City.</span>
   <span id="f001179">All day a stream of pennies,</span>
   <span id="f001180">varied by silver,</span>
   <span id="f001181">poured in upon me,</span>
   <span id="f001182">and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take 2 pounds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001183">As I grew richer I grew more ambitious,</span>
   <span id="f001184">took a house in the country,</span>
   <span id="f001185">and eventually married,</span>
   <span id="f001186">without anyone having a suspicion as to my real occupation.</span>
   <span id="f001187">My dear wife knew that I had business in the City.</span>
   <span id="f001188">She little knew what.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001189">Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my room above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw,</span>
   <span id="f001190">to my horror and astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f001191">that my wife was standing in the street,</span>
   <span id="f001192">with her eyes fixed full upon me.</span>
   <span id="f001193">I gave a cry of surprise,</span>
   <span id="f001194">threw up my arms to cover my face,</span>
   <span id="f001195">and,</span>
   <span id="f001196">rushing to my confidant,</span>
   <span id="f001197">the Lascar,</span>
   <span id="f001198">entreated him to prevent anyone from coming up to me.</span>
   <span id="f001199">I heard her voice downstairs,</span>
   <span id="f001200">but I knew that she could not ascend.</span>
   <span id="f001201">Swiftly I threw off my clothes,</span>
   <span id="f001202">pulled on those of a beggar,</span>
   <span id="f001203">and put on my pigments and wig.</span>
   <span id="f001204">Even a wife’s eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise.</span>
   <span id="f001205">But then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room,</span>
   <span id="f001206">and that the clothes might betray me.</span>
   <span id="f001207">I threw open the window,</span>
   <span id="f001208">reopening by my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in the bedroom that morning.</span>
   <span id="f001209">Then I seized my coat,</span>
   <span id="f001210">which was weighted by the coppers which I had just transferred to it from the leather bag in which I carried my takings.</span>
   <span id="f001211">I hurled it out of the window,</span>
   <span id="f001212">and it disappeared into the Thames.</span>
   <span id="f001213">The other clothes would have followed,</span>
   <span id="f001214">but at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair,</span>
   <span id="f001215">and a few minutes after I found,</span>
   <span id="f001216">rather,</span>
   <span id="f001217">I confess,</span>
   <span id="f001218">to my relief,</span>
   <span id="f001219">that instead of being identified as Mr.&#160;Neville St.&#160;Clair,</span>
   <span id="f001220">I was arrested as his murderer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001221">“I do not know that there is anything else for me to explain.</span>
   <span id="f001222">I was determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible,</span>
   <span id="f001223">and hence my preference for a dirty face.</span>
   <span id="f001224">Knowing that my wife would be terribly anxious,</span>
   <span id="f001225">I slipped off my ring and confided it to the Lascar at a moment when no constable was watching me,</span>
   <span id="f001226">together with a hurried scrawl,</span>
   <span id="f001227">telling her that she had no cause to fear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001228">“That note only reached her yesterday,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001229">“Good God!</span>
   <span id="f001230">What a week she must have spent!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001231">“The police have watched this Lascar,” said Inspector Bradstreet,</span>
   <span id="f001232">“and I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to post a letter unobserved.</span>
   <span id="f001233">Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his,</span>
   <span id="f001234">who forgot all about it for some days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001235">“That was it,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001236">nodding approvingly;</span>
   <span id="f001237">“I have no doubt of it.</span>
   <span id="f001238">But have you never been prosecuted for begging?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001239">“Many times;</span>
   <span id="f001240">but what was a fine to me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001241">“It must stop here,</span>
   <span id="f001242">however,” said Bradstreet.</span>
   <span id="f001243">“If the police are to hush this thing up,</span>
   <span id="f001244">there must be no more of Hugh Boone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001245">“I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001246">“In that case I think that it is probable that no further steps may be taken.</span>
   <span id="f001247">But if you are found again,</span>
   <span id="f001248">then all must come out.</span>
   <span id="f001249">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f001250">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001251">that we are very much indebted to you for having cleared the matter up.</span>
   <span id="f001252">I wish I knew how you reach your results.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001253">“I reached this one,” said my friend,</span>
   <span id="f001254">“by sitting upon five pillows and consuming an ounce of shag.</span>
   <span id="f001255">I think,</span>
   <span id="f001256">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f001257">that if we drive to Baker Street we shall just be in time for breakfast.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

