<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Elizabeth Klett</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Kew Gardens</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Virginia Woolf</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">From the oval-shaped flower-bed there rose perhaps a hundred stalks spreading into heart-shaped or tongue-shaped leaves half way up and unfurling at the tip red or blue or yellow petals marked with spots of colour raised upon the surface;</span>
   <span id="f000008">and from the red,</span>
   <span id="f000009">blue or yellow gloom of the throat emerged a straight bar,</span>
   <span id="f000010">rough with gold dust and slightly clubbed at the end.</span>
   <span id="f000011">The petals were voluminous enough to be stirred by the summer breeze,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and when they moved,</span>
   <span id="f000013">the red,</span>
   <span id="f000014">blue and yellow lights passed one over the other,</span>
   <span id="f000015">staining an inch of the brown earth beneath with a spot of the most intricate colour.</span>
   <span id="f000016">The light fell either upon the smooth,</span>
   <span id="f000017">grey back of a pebble,</span>
   <span id="f000018">or,</span>
   <span id="f000019">the shell of a snail with its brown,</span>
   <span id="f000020">circular veins,</span>
   <span id="f000021">or falling into a raindrop,</span>
   <span id="f000022">it expanded with such intensity of red,</span>
   <span id="f000023">blue and yellow the thin walls of water that one expected them to burst and disappear.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Instead,</span>
   <span id="f000025">the drop was left in a second silver grey once more,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and the light now settled upon the flesh of a leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000027">revealing the branching thread of fibre beneath the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and again it moved on and spread its illumination in the vast green spaces beneath the dome of the heart-shaped and tongue-shaped leaves.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Then the breeze stirred rather more briskly overhead and the colour was flashed into the air above,</span>
   <span id="f000030">into the eyes of the men and women who walk in Kew Gardens in July.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">The figures of these men and women straggled past the flower-bed with a curiously irregular movement not unlike that of the white and blue butterflies who crossed the turf in zig-zag flights from bed to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000032">The man was about six inches in front of the woman,</span>
   <span id="f000033">strolling carelessly,</span>
   <span id="f000034">while she bore on with greater purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000035">only turning her head now and then to see that the children were not too far behind.</span>
   <span id="f000036">The man kept this distance in front of the woman purposely,</span>
   <span id="f000037">though perhaps unconsciously,</span>
   <span id="f000038">for he wished to go on with his thoughts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“Fifteen years ago I came here with Lily,” he thought.</span>
   <span id="f000040">“We sat somewhere over there by a lake and I begged her to marry me all through the hot afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000041">How the dragonfly kept circling round us:</span>
   <span id="f000042">how clearly I see the dragonfly and her shoe with the square silver buckle at the toe.</span>
   <span id="f000043">All the time I spoke I saw her shoe and when it moved impatiently I knew without looking up what she was going to say:</span>
   <span id="f000044">the whole of her seemed to be in her shoe.</span>
   <span id="f000045">And my love,</span>
   <span id="f000046">my desire,</span>
   <span id="f000047">were in the dragonfly;</span>
   <span id="f000048">for some reason I thought that if it settled there,</span>
   <span id="f000049">on that leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000050">the broad one with the red flower in the middle of it,</span>
   <span id="f000051">if the dragonfly settled on the leaf she would say ”Yes“ at once.</span>
   <span id="f000052">But the dragonfly went round and round:</span>
   <span id="f000053">it never settled anywhere – of course not,</span>
   <span id="f000054">happily not,</span>
   <span id="f000055">or I shouldn’t be walking here with Eleanor and the children – Tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000056">Eleanor.</span>
   <span id="f000057">D’you ever think of the past?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Why do you ask,</span>
   <span id="f000059">Simon?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“Because I’ve been thinking of the past.</span>
   <span id="f000061">I’ve been thinking of Lily,</span>
   <span id="f000062">the woman I might have married…</span>
   <span id="f000063">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000064">why are you silent?</span>
   <span id="f000065">Do you mind my thinking of the past?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“Why should I mind,</span>
   <span id="f000067">Simon?</span>
   <span id="f000068">Doesn’t one always think of the past,</span>
   <span id="f000069">in a garden with men and women lying under the trees?</span>
   <span id="f000070">Aren’t they one’s past,</span>
   <span id="f000071">all that remains of it,</span>
   <span id="f000072">those men and women,</span>
   <span id="f000073">those ghosts lying under the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000074">…</span>
   <span id="f000075">one’s happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000076">one’s reality?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“For me,</span>
   <span id="f000078">a square silver shoe buckle and a dragonfly – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“For me,</span>
   <span id="f000080">a kiss.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Imagine six little girls sitting before their easels twenty years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000082">down by the side of a lake,</span>
   <span id="f000083">painting the water-lilies,</span>
   <span id="f000084">the first red water-lilies I’d ever seen.</span>
   <span id="f000085">And suddenly a kiss,</span>
   <span id="f000086">there on the back of my neck.</span>
   <span id="f000087">And my hand shook all the afternoon so that I couldn’t paint.</span>
   <span id="f000088">I took out my watch and marked the hour when I would allow myself to think of the kiss for five minutes only – it was so precious – the kiss of an old grey-haired woman with a wart on her nose,</span>
   <span id="f000089">the mother of all my kisses all my life.</span>
   <span id="f000090">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000091">Caroline,</span>
   <span id="f000092">come,</span>
   <span id="f000093">Hubert.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">They walked on the past the flower-bed,</span>
   <span id="f000095">now walking four abreast,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and soon diminished in size among the trees and looked half transparent as the sunlight and shade swam over their backs in large trembling irregular patches.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">In the oval flower bed the snail,</span>
   <span id="f000098">whose shell had been stained red,</span>
   <span id="f000099">blue,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and yellow for the space of two minutes or so,</span>
   <span id="f000101">now appeared to be moving very slightly in its shell,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and next began to labour over the crumbs of loose earth which broke away and rolled down as it passed over them.</span>
   <span id="f000103">It appeared to have a definite goal in front of it,</span>
   <span id="f000104">differing in this respect from the singular high stepping angular green insect who attempted to cross in front of it,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and waited for a second with its antennæ trembling as if in deliberation,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and then stepped off as rapidly and strangely in the opposite direction.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Brown cliffs with deep green lakes in the hollows,</span>
   <span id="f000108">flat,</span>
   <span id="f000109">blade-like trees that waved from root to tip,</span>
   <span id="f000110">round boulders of grey stone,</span>
   <span id="f000111">vast crumpled surfaces of a thin crackling texture – all these objects lay across the snail’s progress between one stalk and another to his goal.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Before he had decided whether to circumvent the arched tent of a dead leaf or to breast it there came past the bed the feet of other human beings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">This time they were both men.</span>
   <span id="f000114">The younger of the two wore an expression of perhaps unnatural calm;</span>
   <span id="f000115">he raised his eyes and fixed them very steadily in front of him while his companion spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and directly his companion had done speaking he looked on the ground again and sometimes opened his lips only after a long pause and sometimes did not open them at all.</span>
   <span id="f000117">The elder man had a curiously uneven and shaky method of walking,</span>
   <span id="f000118">jerking his hand forward and throwing up his head abruptly,</span>
   <span id="f000119">rather in the manner of an impatient carriage horse tired of waiting outside a house;</span>
   <span id="f000120">but in the man these gestures were irresolute and pointless.</span>
   <span id="f000121">He talked almost incessantly;</span>
   <span id="f000122">he smiled to himself and again began to talk,</span>
   <span id="f000123">as if the smile had been an answer.</span>
   <span id="f000124">He was talking about spirits – the spirits of the dead,</span>
   <span id="f000125">who,</span>
   <span id="f000126">according to him,</span>
   <span id="f000127">were even now telling him all sorts of odd things about their experiences in Heaven.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Heaven was known to the ancients as Thessaly,</span>
   <span id="f000129">William,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and now,</span>
   <span id="f000131">with this war,</span>
   <span id="f000132">the spirit matter is rolling between the hills like thunder.” He paused,</span>
   <span id="f000133">seemed to listen,</span>
   <span id="f000134">smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000135">jerked his head and continued:</span>
   <span id="f000136">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“You have a small electric battery and a piece of rubber to insulate the wire – isolate?</span>
   <span id="f000138">– insulate?</span>
   <span id="f000139">– well,</span>
   <span id="f000140">we’ll skip the details,</span>
   <span id="f000141">no good going into details that wouldn’t be understood – and in short the little machine stands in any convenient position by the head of the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000142">we will say,</span>
   <span id="f000143">on a neat mahogany stand.</span>
   <span id="f000144">All arrangements being properly fixed by workmen under my direction,</span>
   <span id="f000145">the widow applies her ear and summons the spirit by sign as agreed.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Women!</span>
   <span id="f000147">Widows!</span>
   <span id="f000148">Women in black – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">Here he seemed to have caught sight of a woman’s dress in the distance,</span>
   <span id="f000150">which in the shade looked a purple black.</span>
   <span id="f000151">He took off his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000152">placed his hand upon his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and hurried towards her muttering and gesticulating feverishly.</span>
   <span id="f000154">But William caught him by the sleeve and touched a flower with the tip of his walking-stick in order to divert the old man’s attention.</span>
   <span id="f000155">After looking at it for a moment in some confusion the old man bent his ear to it and seemed to answer a voice speaking from it,</span>
   <span id="f000156">for he began talking about the forests of Uruguay which he had visited hundreds of years ago in company with the most beautiful young woman in Europe.</span>
   <span id="f000157">He could be heard murmuring about forests of Uruguay blanketed with the wax petals of tropical roses,</span>
   <span id="f000158">nightingales,</span>
   <span id="f000159">sea beaches,</span>
   <span id="f000160">mermaids,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and women drowned at sea,</span>
   <span id="f000162">as he suffered himself to be moved on by William,</span>
   <span id="f000163">upon whose face the look of stoical patience grew slowly deeper and deeper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">Following his steps so closely as to be slightly puzzled by his gestures came two elderly women of the lower middle class,</span>
   <span id="f000165">one stout and ponderous,</span>
   <span id="f000166">the other rosy cheeked and nimble.</span>
   <span id="f000167">Like most people of their station they were frankly fascinated by any signs of eccentricity betokening a disordered brain,</span>
   <span id="f000168">especially in the well-to-do;</span>
   <span id="f000169">but they were too far off to be certain whether the gestures were merely eccentric or genuinely mad.</span>
   <span id="f000170">After they had scrutinised the old man’s back in silence for a moment and given each other a queer,</span>
   <span id="f000171">sly look,</span>
   <span id="f000172">they went on energetically piecing together their very complicated dialogue:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Nell,</span>
   <span id="f000174">Bert,</span>
   <span id="f000175">Lot,</span>
   <span id="f000176">Cess,</span>
   <span id="f000177">Phil,</span>
   <span id="f000178">Pa,</span>
   <span id="f000179">he says,</span>
   <span id="f000180">I says,</span>
   <span id="f000181">she says,</span>
   <span id="f000182">I says,</span>
   <span id="f000183">I says,</span>
   <span id="f000184">I says – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“My Bert,</span>
   <span id="f000186">Sis,</span>
   <span id="f000187">Bill,</span>
   <span id="f000188">Grandad,</span>
   <span id="f000189">the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000190">sugar,</span>
   <span id="f000191">Sugar,</span>
   <span id="f000192">flour,</span>
   <span id="f000193">kippers,</span>
   <span id="f000194">greens,</span>
   <span id="f000195">Sugar,</span>
   <span id="f000196">sugar,</span>
   <span id="f000197">sugar.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000198">The ponderous woman looked through the pattern of falling words at the flowers standing cool,</span>
   <span id="f000199">firm,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and upright in the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000201">with a curious expression.</span>
   <span id="f000202">She saw them as a sleeper waking from a heavy sleep sees a brass candlestick reflecting the light in an unfamiliar way,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and closes his eyes and opens them,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and seeing the brass candlestick again,</span>
   <span id="f000205">finally starts broad awake and stares at the candlestick with all his powers.</span>
   <span id="f000206">So the heavy woman came to a standstill opposite the oval-shaped flower bed,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and ceased even to pretend to listen to what the other woman was saying.</span>
   <span id="f000208">She stood there letting the words fall over her,</span>
   <span id="f000209">swaying the top part of her body slowly backwards and forwards,</span>
   <span id="f000210">looking at the flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Then she suggested that they should find a seat and have their tea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">The snail had now considered every possible method of reaching his goal without going round the dead leaf or climbing over it.</span>
   <span id="f000213">Let alone the effort needed for climbing a leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000214">he was doubtful whether the thin texture which vibrated with such an alarming crackle when touched even by the tip of his horns would bear his weight;</span>
   <span id="f000215">and this determined him finally to creep beneath it,</span>
   <span id="f000216">for there was a point where the leaf curved high enough from the ground to admit him.</span>
   <span id="f000217">He had just inserted his head in the opening and was taking stock of the high brown roof and was getting used to the cool brown light when two other people came past outside on the turf.</span>
   <span id="f000218">This time they were both young,</span>
   <span id="f000219">a young man and a young woman.</span>
   <span id="f000220">They were both in the prime of youth,</span>
   <span id="f000221">or even in that season which precedes the prime of youth,</span>
   <span id="f000222">the season before the smooth pink folds of the flower have burst their gummy case,</span>
   <span id="f000223">when the wings of the butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000224">though fully grown,</span>
   <span id="f000225">are motionless in the sun.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“Lucky it isn’t Friday,” he observed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“Why?</span>
   <span id="f000228">D’you believe in luck?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“They make you pay sixpence on Friday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">“What’s sixpence anyway?</span>
   <span id="f000231">Isn’t it worth sixpence?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“What’s ’it’ – what do you mean by ’it’?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">“O,</span>
   <span id="f000234">anything – I mean – you know what I mean.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">Long pauses came between each of these remarks;</span>
   <span id="f000236">they were uttered in toneless and monotonous voices.</span>
   <span id="f000237">The couple stood still on the edge of the flower bed,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and together pressed the end of her parasol deep down into the soft earth.</span>
   <span id="f000239">The action and the fact that his hand rested on the top of hers expressed their feelings in a strange way,</span>
   <span id="f000240">as these short insignificant words also expressed something,</span>
   <span id="f000241">words with short wings for their heavy body of meaning,</span>
   <span id="f000242">inadequate to carry them far and thus alighting awkwardly upon the very common objects that surrounded them,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and were to their inexperienced touch so massive;</span>
   <span id="f000244">but who knows</span>
   <span id="f000245">(so they thought as they pressed the parasol into the earth)</span>
   <span id="f000246">what precipices aren’t concealed in them,</span>
   <span id="f000247">or what slopes of ice don’t shine in the sun on the other side?</span>
   <span id="f000248">Who knows?</span>
   <span id="f000249">Who has ever seen this before?</span>
   <span id="f000250">Even when she wondered what sort of tea they gave you at Kew,</span>
   <span id="f000251">he felt that something loomed up behind her words,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and stood vast and solid behind them;</span>
   <span id="f000253">and the mist very slowly rose and uncovered – O,</span>
   <span id="f000254">Heavens,</span>
   <span id="f000255">what were those shapes?</span>
   <span id="f000256">– little white tables,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and waitresses who looked first at her and then at him;</span>
   <span id="f000258">and there was a bill that he would pay with a real two shilling piece,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and it was real,</span>
   <span id="f000260">all real,</span>
   <span id="f000261">he assured himself,</span>
   <span id="f000262">fingering the coin in his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000263">real to everyone except to him and to her;</span>
   <span id="f000264">even to him it began to seem real;</span>
   <span id="f000265">and then – but it was too exciting to stand and think any longer,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and he pulled the parasol out of the earth with a jerk and was impatient to find the place where one had tea with other people,</span>
   <span id="f000267">like other people.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“Come along,</span>
   <span id="f000269">Trissie;</span>
   <span id="f000270">it’s time we had our tea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“Wherever <em>does</em> one have one’s tea?” she asked with the oddest thrill of excitement in her voice,</span>
   <span id="f000272">looking vaguely round and letting herself be drawn on down the grass path,</span>
   <span id="f000273">trailing her parasol,</span>
   <span id="f000274">turning her head this way and that way,</span>
   <span id="f000275">forgetting her tea,</span>
   <span id="f000276">wishing to go down there and then down there,</span>
   <span id="f000277">remembering orchids and cranes among wild flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000278">a Chinese pagoda and a crimson crested bird;</span>
   <span id="f000279">but he bore her on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">Thus one couple after another with much the same irregular and aimless movement passed the flower-bed and were enveloped in layer after layer of green blue vapour,</span>
   <span id="f000281">in which at first their bodies had substance and a dash of colour,</span>
   <span id="f000282">but later both substance and colour dissolved in the green-blue atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000283">How hot it was!</span>
   <span id="f000284">So hot that even the thrush chose to hop,</span>
   <span id="f000285">like a mechanical bird,</span>
   <span id="f000286">in the shadow of the flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000287">with long pauses between one movement and the next;</span>
   <span id="f000288">instead of rambling vaguely the white butterflies danced one above another,</span>
   <span id="f000289">making with their white shifting flakes the outline of a shattered marble column above the tallest flowers;</span>
   <span id="f000290">the glass roofs of the palm house shone as if a whole market full of shiny green umbrellas had opened in the sun;</span>
   <span id="f000291">and in the drone of the aeroplane the voice of the summer sky murmured its fierce soul.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Yellow and black,</span>
   <span id="f000293">pink and snow white,</span>
   <span id="f000294">shapes of all these colours,</span>
   <span id="f000295">men,</span>
   <span id="f000296">women,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and children were spotted for a second upon the horizon,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000299">seeing the breadth of yellow that lay upon the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000300">they wavered and sought shade beneath the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000301">dissolving like drops of water in the yellow and green atmosphere,</span>
   <span id="f000302">staining it faintly with red and blue.</span>
   <span id="f000303">It seemed as if all gross and heavy bodies had sunk down in the heat motionless and lay huddled upon the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000304">but their voices went wavering from them as if they were flames lolling from the thick waxen bodies of candles.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000306">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000307">voices.</span>
   <span id="f000308">Wordless voices,</span>
   <span id="f000309">breaking the silence suddenly with such depth of contentment,</span>
   <span id="f000310">such passion of desire,</span>
   <span id="f000311">or,</span>
   <span id="f000312">in the voices of children,</span>
   <span id="f000313">such freshness of surprise;</span>
   <span id="f000314">breaking the silence?</span>
   <span id="f000315">But there was no silence;</span>
   <span id="f000316">all the time the motor omnibuses were turning their wheels and changing their gear;</span>
   <span id="f000317">like a vast nest of Chinese boxes all of wrought steel turning ceaselessly one within another the city murmured;</span>
   <span id="f000318">on the top of which the voices cried aloud and the petals of myriads of flowers flashed their colours into the air.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

