<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Scott Danneker</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Horror of the Heights</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">The idea that the extraordinary narrative which has been called the Joyce-Armstrong Fragment is an elaborate practical joke evolved by some unknown person,</span>
   <span id="f000008">cursed by a perverted and sinister sense of humour,</span>
   <span id="f000009">has now been abandoned by all who have examined the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000010">The most macabre and imaginative of plotters would hesitate before linking his morbid fancies with the unquestioned and tragic facts which reinforce the statement.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Though the assertions contained in it are amazing and even monstrous,</span>
   <span id="f000012">it is none the less forcing itself upon the general intelligence that they are true,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and that we must readjust our ideas to the new situation.</span>
   <span id="f000014">This world of ours appears to be separated by a slight and precarious margin of safety from a most singular and unexpected danger.</span>
   <span id="f000015">I will endeavour in this narrative,</span>
   <span id="f000016">which reproduces the original document in its necessarily somewhat fragmentary form,</span>
   <span id="f000017">to lay before the reader the whole of the facts up to date,</span>
   <span id="f000018">prefacing my statement by saying that,</span>
   <span id="f000019">if there be any who doubt the narrative of Joyce-Armstrong,</span>
   <span id="f000020">there can be no question at all as to the facts concerning Lieutenant Myrtle,</span>
   <span id="f000021">R.</span>
   <span id="f000022">N.,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and Mr.&#160;Hay Connor,</span>
   <span id="f000024">who undoubtedly met their end in the manner described.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">The Joyce-Armstrong Fragment was found in the field which is called Lower Haycock,</span>
   <span id="f000026">lying one mile to the westward of the village of Withyham,</span>
   <span id="f000027">upon the Kent and Sussex border.</span>
   <span id="f000028">It was on the 15th September last that an agricultural labourer,</span>
   <span id="f000029">James Flynn,</span>
   <span id="f000030">in the employment of Mathew Dodd,</span>
   <span id="f000031">farmer,</span>
   <span id="f000032">of the Chauntry Farm,</span>
   <span id="f000033">Withyham,</span>
   <span id="f000034">perceived a briar pipe lying near the footpath which skirts the hedge in Lower Haycock.</span>
   <span id="f000035">A few paces farther on he picked up a pair of broken binocular glasses.</span>
   <span id="f000036">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f000037">among some nettles in the ditch,</span>
   <span id="f000038">he caught sight of a flat,</span>
   <span id="f000039">canvas-backed book,</span>
   <span id="f000040">which proved to be a note-book with detachable leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000041">some of which had come loose and were fluttering along the base of the hedge.</span>
   <span id="f000042">These he collected,</span>
   <span id="f000043">but some,</span>
   <span id="f000044">including the first,</span>
   <span id="f000045">were never recovered,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and leave a deplorable hiatus in this all-important statement.</span>
   <span id="f000047">The note-book was taken by the labourer to his master,</span>
   <span id="f000048">who in turn showed it to Dr.&#160;J.</span>
   <span id="f000049">H.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Atherton,</span>
   <span id="f000051">of Hartfield.</span>
   <span id="f000052">This gentleman at once recognized the need for an expert examination,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and the manuscript was forwarded to the Aero Club in London,</span>
   <span id="f000054">where it now lies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">The first two pages of the manuscript are missing.</span>
   <span id="f000056">There is also one torn away at the end of the narrative,</span>
   <span id="f000057">though none of these affect the general coherence of the story.</span>
   <span id="f000058">It is conjectured that the missing opening is concerned with the record of Mr.&#160;Joyce-Armstrong’s qualifications as an aeronaut,</span>
   <span id="f000059">which can be gathered from other sources and are admitted to be unsurpassed among the air-pilots of England.</span>
   <span id="f000060">For many years he has been looked upon as among the most daring and the most intellectual of flying men,</span>
   <span id="f000061">a combination which has enabled him to both invent and test several new devices,</span>
   <span id="f000062">including the common gyroscopic attachment which is known by his name.</span>
   <span id="f000063">The main body of the manuscript is written neatly in ink,</span>
   <span id="f000064">but the last few lines are in pencil and are so ragged as to be hardly legible – exactly,</span>
   <span id="f000065">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000066">as they might be expected to appear if they were scribbled off hurriedly from the seat of a moving aeroplane.</span>
   <span id="f000067">There are,</span>
   <span id="f000068">it may be added,</span>
   <span id="f000069">several stains,</span>
   <span id="f000070">both on the last page and on the outside cover which have been pronounced by the Home Office experts to be blood – probably human and certainly mammalian.</span>
   <span id="f000071">The fact that something closely resembling the organism of malaria was discovered in this blood,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and that Joyce-Armstrong is known to have suffered from intermittent fever,</span>
   <span id="f000073">is a remarkable example of the new weapons which modern science has placed in the hands of our detectives.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">And now a word as to the personality of the author of this epoch-making statement.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Joyce-Armstrong,</span>
   <span id="f000076">according to the few friends who really knew something of the man,</span>
   <span id="f000077">was a poet and a dreamer,</span>
   <span id="f000078">as well as a mechanic and an inventor.</span>
   <span id="f000079">He was a man of considerable wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000080">much of which he had spent in the pursuit of his aeronautical hobby.</span>
   <span id="f000081">He had four private aeroplanes in his hangars near Devizes,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and is said to have made no fewer than one hundred and seventy ascents in the course of last year.</span>
   <span id="f000083">He was a retiring man with dark moods,</span>
   <span id="f000084">in which he would avoid the society of his fellows.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Captain Dangerfield,</span>
   <span id="f000086">who knew him better than anyone,</span>
   <span id="f000087">says that there were times when his eccentricity threatened to develop into something more serious.</span>
   <span id="f000088">His habit of carrying a shot-gun with him in his aeroplane was one manifestation of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">Another was the morbid effect which the fall of Lieutenant Myrtle had upon his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000090">Myrtle,</span>
   <span id="f000091">who was attempting the height record,</span>
   <span id="f000092">fell from an altitude of something over thirty thousand feet.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Horrible to narrate,</span>
   <span id="f000094">his head was entirely obliterated,</span>
   <span id="f000095">though his body and limbs preserved their configuration.</span>
   <span id="f000096">At every gathering of airmen,</span>
   <span id="f000097">Joyce-Armstrong,</span>
   <span id="f000098">according to Dangerfield,</span>
   <span id="f000099">would ask,</span>
   <span id="f000100">with an enigmatic smile:</span>
   <span id="f000101">“And where,</span>
   <span id="f000102">pray,</span>
   <span id="f000103">is Myrtle’s head?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">On another occasion after dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000105">at the mess of the Flying School on Salisbury Plain,</span>
   <span id="f000106">he started a debate as to what will be the most permanent danger which airmen will have to encounter.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Having listened to successive opinions as to air-pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000108">faulty construction,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and over-banking,</span>
   <span id="f000110">he ended by shrugging his shoulders and refusing to put forward his own views,</span>
   <span id="f000111">though he gave the impression that they differed from any advanced by his companions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">It is worth remarking that after his own complete disappearance it was found that his private affairs were arranged with a precision which may show that he had a strong premonition of disaster.</span>
   <span id="f000113">With these essential explanations I will now give the narrative exactly as it stands,</span>
   <span id="f000114">beginning at page three of the blood-soaked note-book:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000115">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000116">when I dined at Rheims with Coselli and Gustav Raymond I found that neither of them was aware of any particular danger in the higher layers of the atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000117">I did not actually say what was in my thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but I got so near to it that if they had any corresponding idea they could not have failed to express it.</span>
   <span id="f000119">But then they are two empty,</span>
   <span id="f000120">vainglorious fellows with no thought beyond seeing their silly names in the newspaper.</span>
   <span id="f000121">It is interesting to note that neither of them had ever been much beyond the twenty-thousand-foot level.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000123">men have been higher than this both in balloons and in the ascent of mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000124">It must be well above that point that the aeroplane enters the danger zone – always presuming that my premonitions are correct.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">Aeroplaning has been with us now for more than twenty years,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and one might well ask:</span>
   <span id="f000127">Why should this peril be only revealing itself in our day?</span>
   <span id="f000128">The answer is obvious.</span>
   <span id="f000129">In the old days of weak engines,</span>
   <span id="f000130">when a hundred horse-power Gnome or Green was considered ample for every need,</span>
   <span id="f000131">the flights were very restricted.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Now that three hundred horse-power is the rule rather than the exception,</span>
   <span id="f000133">visits to the upper layers have become easier and more common.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Some of us can remember how,</span>
   <span id="f000135">in our youth,</span>
   <span id="f000136">Garros made a world-wide reputation by attaining nineteen thousand feet,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and it was considered a remarkable achievement to fly over the Alps.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Our standard now has been immeasurably raised,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and there are twenty high flights for one in former years.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Many of them have been undertaken with impunity.</span>
   <span id="f000141">The thirty-thousand-foot level has been reached time after time with no discomfort beyond cold and asthma.</span>
   <span id="f000142">What does this prove?</span>
   <span id="f000143">A visitor might descend upon this planet a thousand times and never see a tiger.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Yet tigers exist,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and if he chanced to come down into a jungle he might be devoured.</span>
   <span id="f000146">There are jungles of the upper air,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and there are worse things than tigers which inhabit them.</span>
   <span id="f000148">I believe in time they will map these jungles accurately out.</span>
   <span id="f000149">Even at the present moment I could name two of them.</span>
   <span id="f000150">One of them lies over the Pau-Biarritz district of France.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Another is just over my head as I write here in my house in Wiltshire.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I rather think there is a third in the Homburg-Wiesbaden district.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">It was the disappearance of the airmen that first set me thinking.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000155">everyone said that they had fallen into the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000156">but that did not satisfy me at all.</span>
   <span id="f000157">First,</span>
   <span id="f000158">there was Verrier in France;</span>
   <span id="f000159">his machine was found near Bayonne,</span>
   <span id="f000160">but they never got his body.</span>
   <span id="f000161">There was the case of Baxter also,</span>
   <span id="f000162">who vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000163">though his engine and some of the iron fixings were found in a wood in Leicestershire.</span>
   <span id="f000164">In that case,</span>
   <span id="f000165">Dr.&#160;Middleton,</span>
   <span id="f000166">of Amesbury,</span>
   <span id="f000167">who was watching the flight with a telescope,</span>
   <span id="f000168">declares that just before the clouds obscured the view he saw the machine,</span>
   <span id="f000169">which was at an enormous height,</span>
   <span id="f000170">suddenly rise perpendicularly upwards in a succession of jerks in a manner that he would have thought to be impossible.</span>
   <span id="f000171">That was the last seen of Baxter.</span>
   <span id="f000172">There was a correspondence in the papers,</span>
   <span id="f000173">but it never led to anything.</span>
   <span id="f000174">There were several other similar cases,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and then there was the death of Hay Connor.</span>
   <span id="f000176">What a cackle there was about an unsolved mystery of the air,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and what columns in the halfpenny papers,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and yet how little was ever done to get to the bottom of the business!</span>
   <span id="f000179">He came down in a tremendous vol-plane from an unknown height.</span>
   <span id="f000180">He never got off his machine and died in his pilot’s seat.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Died of what?</span>
   <span id="f000182">’Heart disease,’ said the doctors.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Rubbish!</span>
   <span id="f000184">Hay Connor’s heart was as sound as mine is.</span>
   <span id="f000185">What did Venables say?</span>
   <span id="f000186">Venables was the only man who was at his side when he died.</span>
   <span id="f000187">He said that he was shivering and looked like a man who had been badly scared.</span>
   <span id="f000188">’Died of fright,’ said Venables,</span>
   <span id="f000189">but could not imagine what he was frightened about.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Only said one word to Venables,</span>
   <span id="f000191">which sounded like ’Monstrous.’ They could make nothing of that at the inquest.</span>
   <span id="f000192">But I could make something of it.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Monsters!</span>
   <span id="f000194">That was the last word of poor Harry Hay Connor.</span>
   <span id="f000195">And he DID die of fright,</span>
   <span id="f000196">just as Venables thought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">And then there was Myrtle’s head.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Do you really believe – does anybody really believe – that a man’s head could be driven clean into his body by the force of a fall?</span>
   <span id="f000199">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000200">perhaps it may be possible,</span>
   <span id="f000201">but I,</span>
   <span id="f000202">for one,</span>
   <span id="f000203">have never believed that it was so with Myrtle.</span>
   <span id="f000204">And the grease upon his clothes – ’all slimy with grease,’ said somebody at the inquest.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Queer that nobody got thinking after that!</span>
   <span id="f000206">I did – but,</span>
   <span id="f000207">then,</span>
   <span id="f000208">I had been thinking for a good long time.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I’ve made three ascents – how Dangerfield used to chaff me about my shot-gun – but I’ve never been high enough.</span>
   <span id="f000210">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000211">with this new,</span>
   <span id="f000212">light Paul Veroner machine and its one hundred and seventy-five Robur,</span>
   <span id="f000213">I should easily touch the thirty thousand tomorrow.</span>
   <span id="f000214">I’ll have a shot at the record.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Maybe I shall have a shot at something else as well.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000217">it’s dangerous.</span>
   <span id="f000218">If a fellow wants to avoid danger he had best keep out of flying altogether and subside finally into flannel slippers and a dressing-gown.</span>
   <span id="f000219">But I’ll visit the air-jungle tomorrow – and if there’s anything there I shall know it.</span>
   <span id="f000220">If I return,</span>
   <span id="f000221">I’ll find myself a bit of a celebrity.</span>
   <span id="f000222">If I don’t this note-book may explain what I am trying to do,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and how I lost my life in doing it.</span>
   <span id="f000224">But no drivel about accidents or mysteries,</span>
   <span id="f000225">if YOU please.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">I chose my Paul Veroner monoplane for the job.</span>
   <span id="f000227">There’s nothing like a monoplane when real work is to be done.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Beaumont found that out in very early days.</span>
   <span id="f000229">For one thing it doesn’t mind damp,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and the weather looks as if we should be in the clouds all the time.</span>
   <span id="f000231">It’s a bonny little model and answers my hand like a tender-mouthed horse.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The engine is a ten-cylinder rotary Robur working up to one hundred and seventy-five.</span>
   <span id="f000233">It has all the modern improvements – enclosed fuselage,</span>
   <span id="f000234">high-curved landing skids,</span>
   <span id="f000235">brakes,</span>
   <span id="f000236">gyroscopic steadiers,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and three speeds,</span>
   <span id="f000238">worked by an alteration of the angle of the planes upon the Venetian-blind principle.</span>
   <span id="f000239">I took a shot-gun with me and a dozen cartridges filled with buck-shot.</span>
   <span id="f000240">You should have seen the face of Perkins,</span>
   <span id="f000241">my old mechanic,</span>
   <span id="f000242">when I directed him to put them in.</span>
   <span id="f000243">I was dressed like an Arctic explorer,</span>
   <span id="f000244">with two jerseys under my overalls,</span>
   <span id="f000245">thick socks inside my padded boots,</span>
   <span id="f000246">a storm-cap with flaps,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and my talc goggles.</span>
   <span id="f000248">It was stifling outside the hangars,</span>
   <span id="f000249">but I was going for the summit of the Himalayas,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and had to dress for the part.</span>
   <span id="f000251">Perkins knew there was something on and implored me to take him with me.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Perhaps I should if I were using the biplane,</span>
   <span id="f000253">but a monoplane is a one-man show – if you want to get the last foot of life out of it.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000255">I took an oxygen bag;</span>
   <span id="f000256">the man who goes for the altitude record without one will either be frozen or smothered – or both.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">I had a good look at the planes,</span>
   <span id="f000258">the rudder-bar,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and the elevating lever before I got in.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Everything was in order so far as I could see.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Then I switched on my engine and found that she was running sweetly.</span>
   <span id="f000262">When they let her go she rose almost at once upon the lowest speed.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I circled my home field once or twice just to warm her up,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and then with a wave to Perkins and the others,</span>
   <span id="f000265">I flattened out my planes and put her on her highest.</span>
   <span id="f000266">She skimmed like a swallow down wind for eight or ten miles until I turned her nose up a little and she began to climb in a great spiral for the cloud-bank above me.</span>
   <span id="f000267">It’s all-important to rise slowly and adapt yourself to the pressure as you go.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">It was a close,</span>
   <span id="f000269">warm day for an English September,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and there was the hush and heaviness of impending rain.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Now and then there came sudden puffs of wind from the south-west – one of them so gusty and unexpected that it caught me napping and turned me half-round for an instant.</span>
   <span id="f000272">I remember the time when gusts and whirls and air-pockets used to be things of danger – before we learned to put an overmastering power into our engines.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Just as I reached the cloud-banks,</span>
   <span id="f000274">with the altimeter marking three thousand,</span>
   <span id="f000275">down came the rain.</span>
   <span id="f000276">My word,</span>
   <span id="f000277">how it poured!</span>
   <span id="f000278">It drummed upon my wings and lashed against my face,</span>
   <span id="f000279">blurring my glasses so that I could hardly see.</span>
   <span id="f000280">I got down on to a low speed,</span>
   <span id="f000281">for it was painful to travel against it.</span>
   <span id="f000282">As I got higher it became hail,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and I had to turn tail to it.</span>
   <span id="f000284">One of my cylinders was out of action – a dirty plug,</span>
   <span id="f000285">I should imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000286">but still I was rising steadily with plenty of power.</span>
   <span id="f000287">After a bit the trouble passed,</span>
   <span id="f000288">whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and I heard the full,</span>
   <span id="f000290">deep-throated purr – the ten singing as one.</span>
   <span id="f000291">That’s where the beauty of our modern silencers comes in.</span>
   <span id="f000292">We can at last control our engines by ear.</span>
   <span id="f000293">How they squeal and squeak and sob when they are in trouble!</span>
   <span id="f000294">All those cries for help were wasted in the old days,</span>
   <span id="f000295">when every sound was swallowed up by the monstrous racket of the machine.</span>
   <span id="f000296">If only the early aviators could come back to see the beauty and perfection of the mechanism which have been bought at the cost of their lives!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">About nine-thirty I was nearing the clouds.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Down below me,</span>
   <span id="f000299">all blurred and shadowed with rain,</span>
   <span id="f000300">lay the vast expanse of Salisbury Plain.</span>
   <span id="f000301">Half a dozen flying machines were doing hackwork at the thousand-foot level,</span>
   <span id="f000302">looking like little black swallows against the green background.</span>
   <span id="f000303">I dare say they were wondering what I was doing up in cloud-land.</span>
   <span id="f000304">Suddenly a grey curtain drew across beneath me and the wet folds of vapours were swirling round my face.</span>
   <span id="f000305">It was clammily cold and miserable.</span>
   <span id="f000306">But I was above the hail-storm,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and that was something gained.</span>
   <span id="f000308">The cloud was as dark and thick as a London fog.</span>
   <span id="f000309">In my anxiety to get clear,</span>
   <span id="f000310">I cocked her nose up until the automatic alarm-bell rang,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and I actually began to slide backwards.</span>
   <span id="f000312">My sopped and dripping wings had made me heavier than I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000313">but presently I was in lighter cloud,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and soon had cleared the first layer.</span>
   <span id="f000315">There was a second – opal-coloured and fleecy – at a great height above my head,</span>
   <span id="f000316">a white,</span>
   <span id="f000317">unbroken ceiling above,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and a dark,</span>
   <span id="f000319">unbroken floor below,</span>
   <span id="f000320">with the monoplane labouring upwards upon a vast spiral between them.</span>
   <span id="f000321">It is deadly lonely in these cloud-spaces.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Once a great flight of some small water-birds went past me,</span>
   <span id="f000323">flying very fast to the westwards.</span>
   <span id="f000324">The quick whir of their wings and their musical cry were cheery to my ear.</span>
   <span id="f000325">I fancy that they were teal,</span>
   <span id="f000326">but I am a wretched zoologist.</span>
   <span id="f000327">Now that we humans have become birds we must really learn to know our brethren by sight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">The wind down beneath me whirled and swayed the broad cloud-plain.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Once a great eddy formed in it,</span>
   <span id="f000330">a whirlpool of vapour,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and through it,</span>
   <span id="f000332">as down a funnel,</span>
   <span id="f000333">I caught sight of the distant world.</span>
   <span id="f000334">A large white biplane was passing at a vast depth beneath me.</span>
   <span id="f000335">I fancy it was the morning mail service betwixt Bristol and London.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Then the drift swirled inwards again and the great solitude was unbroken.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">Just after ten I touched the lower edge of the upper cloud-stratum.</span>
   <span id="f000338">It consisted of fine diaphanous vapour drifting swiftly from the westwards.</span>
   <span id="f000339">The wind had been steadily rising all this time and it was now blowing a sharp breeze – twenty-eight an hour by my gauge.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Already it was very cold,</span>
   <span id="f000341">though my altimeter only marked nine thousand.</span>
   <span id="f000342">The engines were working beautifully,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and we went droning steadily upwards.</span>
   <span id="f000344">The cloud-bank was thicker than I had expected,</span>
   <span id="f000345">but at last it thinned out into a golden mist before me,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and then in an instant I had shot out from it,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and there was an unclouded sky and a brilliant sun above my head – all blue and gold above,</span>
   <span id="f000348">all shining silver below,</span>
   <span id="f000349">one vast,</span>
   <span id="f000350">glimmering plain as far as my eyes could reach.</span>
   <span id="f000351">It was a quarter past ten o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and the barograph needle pointed to twelve thousand eight hundred.</span>
   <span id="f000353">Up I went and up,</span>
   <span id="f000354">my ears concentrated upon the deep purring of my motor,</span>
   <span id="f000355">my eyes busy always with the watch,</span>
   <span id="f000356">the revolution indicator,</span>
   <span id="f000357">the petrol lever,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and the oil pump.</span>
   <span id="f000359">No wonder aviators are said to be a fearless race.</span>
   <span id="f000360">With so many things to think of there is no time to trouble about oneself.</span>
   <span id="f000361">About this time I noted how unreliable is the compass when above a certain height from earth.</span>
   <span id="f000362">At fifteen thousand feet mine was pointing east and a point south.</span>
   <span id="f000363">The sun and the wind gave me my true bearings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">I had hoped to reach an eternal stillness in these high altitudes,</span>
   <span id="f000365">but with every thousand feet of ascent the gale grew stronger.</span>
   <span id="f000366">My machine groaned and trembled in every joint and rivet as she faced it,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and swept away like a sheet of paper when I banked her on the turn,</span>
   <span id="f000368">skimming down wind at a greater pace,</span>
   <span id="f000369">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000370">than ever mortal man has moved.</span>
   <span id="f000371">Yet I had always to turn again and tack up in the wind’s eye,</span>
   <span id="f000372">for it was not merely a height record that I was after.</span>
   <span id="f000373">By all my calculations it was above little Wiltshire that my air-jungle lay,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and all my labour might be lost if I struck the outer layers at some farther point.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">When I reached the nineteen-thousand-foot level,</span>
   <span id="f000376">which was about midday,</span>
   <span id="f000377">the wind was so severe that I looked with some anxiety to the stays of my wings,</span>
   <span id="f000378">expecting momentarily to see them snap or slacken.</span>
   <span id="f000379">I even cast loose the parachute behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and fastened its hook into the ring of my leathern belt,</span>
   <span id="f000381">so as to be ready for the worst.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Now was the time when a bit of scamped work by the mechanic is paid for by the life of the aeronaut.</span>
   <span id="f000383">But she held together bravely.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Every cord and strut was humming and vibrating like so many harp-strings,</span>
   <span id="f000385">but it was glorious to see how,</span>
   <span id="f000386">for all the beating and the buffeting,</span>
   <span id="f000387">she was still the conqueror of Nature and the mistress of the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000388">There is surely something divine in man himself that he should rise so superior to the limitations which Creation seemed to impose – rise,</span>
   <span id="f000389">too,</span>
   <span id="f000390">by such unselfish,</span>
   <span id="f000391">heroic devotion as this air-conquest has shown.</span>
   <span id="f000392">Talk of human degeneration!</span>
   <span id="f000393">When has such a story as this been written in the annals of our race?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">These were the thoughts in my head as I climbed that monstrous,</span>
   <span id="f000395">inclined plane with the wind sometimes beating in my face and sometimes whistling behind my ears,</span>
   <span id="f000396">while the cloud-land beneath me fell away to such a distance that the folds and hummocks of silver had all smoothed out into one flat,</span>
   <span id="f000397">shining plain.</span>
   <span id="f000398">But suddenly I had a horrible and unprecedented experience.</span>
   <span id="f000399">I have known before what it is to be in what our neighbours have called a tourbillon,</span>
   <span id="f000400">but never on such a scale as this.</span>
   <span id="f000401">That huge,</span>
   <span id="f000402">sweeping river of wind of which I have spoken had,</span>
   <span id="f000403">as it appears,</span>
   <span id="f000404">whirlpools within it which were as monstrous as itself.</span>
   <span id="f000405">Without a moment’s warning I was dragged suddenly into the heart of one.</span>
   <span id="f000406">I spun round for a minute or two with such velocity that I almost lost my senses,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and then fell suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000408">left wing foremost,</span>
   <span id="f000409">down the vacuum funnel in the centre.</span>
   <span id="f000410">I dropped like a stone,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and lost nearly a thousand feet.</span>
   <span id="f000412">It was only my belt that kept me in my seat,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and the shock and breathlessness left me hanging half-insensible over the side of the fuselage.</span>
   <span id="f000414">But I am always capable of a supreme effort – it is my one great merit as an aviator.</span>
   <span id="f000415">I was conscious that the descent was slower.</span>
   <span id="f000416">The whirlpool was a cone rather than a funnel,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and I had come to the apex.</span>
   <span id="f000418">With a terrific wrench,</span>
   <span id="f000419">throwing my weight all to one side,</span>
   <span id="f000420">I levelled my planes and brought her head away from the wind.</span>
   <span id="f000421">In an instant I had shot out of the eddies and was skimming down the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000422">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000423">shaken but victorious,</span>
   <span id="f000424">I turned her nose up and began once more my steady grind on the upward spiral.</span>
   <span id="f000425">I took a large sweep to avoid the danger-spot of the whirlpool,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and soon I was safely above it.</span>
   <span id="f000427">Just after one o’clock I was twenty-one thousand feet above the sea-level.</span>
   <span id="f000428">To my great joy I had topped the gale,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and with every hundred feet of ascent the air grew stiller.</span>
   <span id="f000430">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000431">it was very cold,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and I was conscious of that peculiar nausea which goes with rarefaction of the air.</span>
   <span id="f000433">For the first time I unscrewed the mouth of my oxygen bag and took an occasional whiff of the glorious gas.</span>
   <span id="f000434">I could feel it running like a cordial through my veins,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and I was exhilarated almost to the point of drunkenness.</span>
   <span id="f000436">I shouted and sang as I soared upwards into the cold,</span>
   <span id="f000437">still outer world.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">It is very clear to me that the insensibility which came upon Glaisher,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and in a lesser degree upon Coxwell,</span>
   <span id="f000440">when,</span>
   <span id="f000441">in 1862,</span>
   <span id="f000442">they ascended in a balloon to the height of thirty thousand feet,</span>
   <span id="f000443">was due to the extreme speed with which a perpendicular ascent is made.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Doing it at an easy gradient and accustoming oneself to the lessened barometric pressure by slow degrees,</span>
   <span id="f000445">there are no such dreadful symptoms.</span>
   <span id="f000446">At the same great height I found that even without my oxygen inhaler I could breathe without undue distress.</span>
   <span id="f000447">It was bitterly cold,</span>
   <span id="f000448">however,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and my thermometer was at zero,</span>
   <span id="f000450">Fahrenheit.</span>
   <span id="f000451">At one-thirty I was nearly seven miles above the surface of the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and still ascending steadily.</span>
   <span id="f000453">I found,</span>
   <span id="f000454">however,</span>
   <span id="f000455">that the rarefied air was giving markedly less support to my planes,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and that my angle of ascent had to be considerably lowered in consequence.</span>
   <span id="f000457">It was already clear that even with my light weight and strong engine-power there was a point in front of me where I should be held.</span>
   <span id="f000458">To make matters worse,</span>
   <span id="f000459">one of my sparking-plugs was in trouble again and there was intermittent misfiring in the engine.</span>
   <span id="f000460">My heart was heavy with the fear of failure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">It was about that time that I had a most extraordinary experience.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Something whizzed past me in a trail of smoke and exploded with a loud,</span>
   <span id="f000463">hissing sound,</span>
   <span id="f000464">sending forth a cloud of steam.</span>
   <span id="f000465">For the instant I could not imagine what had happened.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Then I remembered that the earth is for ever being bombarded by meteor stones,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and would be hardly inhabitable were they not in nearly every case turned to vapour in the outer layers of the atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000468">Here is a new danger for the high-altitude man,</span>
   <span id="f000469">for two others passed me when I was nearing the forty-thousand-foot mark.</span>
   <span id="f000470">I cannot doubt that at the edge of the earth’s envelope the risk would be a very real one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">My barograph needle marked forty-one thousand three hundred when I became aware that I could go no farther.</span>
   <span id="f000472">Physically,</span>
   <span id="f000473">the strain was not as yet greater than I could bear but my machine had reached its limit.</span>
   <span id="f000474">The attenuated air gave no firm support to the wings,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and the least tilt developed into side-slip,</span>
   <span id="f000476">while she seemed sluggish on her controls.</span>
   <span id="f000477">Possibly,</span>
   <span id="f000478">had the engine been at its best,</span>
   <span id="f000479">another thousand feet might have been within our capacity,</span>
   <span id="f000480">but it was still misfiring,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and two out of the ten cylinders appeared to be out of action.</span>
   <span id="f000482">If I had not already reached the zone for which I was searching then I should never see it upon this journey.</span>
   <span id="f000483">But was it not possible that I had attained it?</span>
   <span id="f000484">Soaring in circles like a monstrous hawk upon the forty-thousand-foot level I let the monoplane guide herself,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and with my Mannheim glass I made a careful observation of my surroundings.</span>
   <span id="f000486">The heavens were perfectly clear;</span>
   <span id="f000487">there was no indication of those dangers which I had imagined.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">I have said that I was soaring in circles.</span>
   <span id="f000489">It struck me suddenly that I would do well to take a wider sweep and open up a new airtract.</span>
   <span id="f000490">If the hunter entered an earth-jungle he would drive through it if he wished to find his game.</span>
   <span id="f000491">My reasoning had led me to believe that the air-jungle which I had imagined lay somewhere over Wiltshire.</span>
   <span id="f000492">This should be to the south and west of me.</span>
   <span id="f000493">I took my bearings from the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000494">for the compass was hopeless and no trace of earth was to be seen – nothing but the distant,</span>
   <span id="f000495">silver cloud-plain.</span>
   <span id="f000496">However,</span>
   <span id="f000497">I got my direction as best I might and kept her head straight to the mark.</span>
   <span id="f000498">I reckoned that my petrol supply would not last for more than another hour or so,</span>
   <span id="f000499">but I could afford to use it to the last drop,</span>
   <span id="f000500">since a single magnificent vol-plane could at any time take me to the earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">Suddenly I was aware of something new.</span>
   <span id="f000502">The air in front of me had lost its crystal clearness.</span>
   <span id="f000503">It was full of long,</span>
   <span id="f000504">ragged wisps of something which I can only compare to very fine cigarette smoke.</span>
   <span id="f000505">It hung about in wreaths and coils,</span>
   <span id="f000506">turning and twisting slowly in the sunlight.</span>
   <span id="f000507">As the monoplane shot through it,</span>
   <span id="f000508">I was aware of a faint taste of oil upon my lips,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and there was a greasy scum upon the woodwork of the machine.</span>
   <span id="f000510">Some infinitely fine organic matter appeared to be suspended in the atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000511">There was no life there.</span>
   <span id="f000512">It was inchoate and diffuse,</span>
   <span id="f000513">extending for many square acres and then fringing off into the void.</span>
   <span id="f000514">No,</span>
   <span id="f000515">it was not life.</span>
   <span id="f000516">But might it not be the remains of life?</span>
   <span id="f000517">Above all,</span>
   <span id="f000518">might it not be the food of life,</span>
   <span id="f000519">of monstrous life,</span>
   <span id="f000520">even as the humble grease of the ocean is the food for the mighty whale?</span>
   <span id="f000521">The thought was in my mind when my eyes looked upwards and I saw the most wonderful vision that ever man has seen.</span>
   <span id="f000522">Can I hope to convey it to you even as I saw it myself last Thursday?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">Conceive a jelly-fish such as sails in our summer seas,</span>
   <span id="f000524">bell-shaped and of enormous size – far larger,</span>
   <span id="f000525">I should judge,</span>
   <span id="f000526">than the dome of St.&#160;Paul’s.</span>
   <span id="f000527">It was of a light pink colour veined with a delicate green,</span>
   <span id="f000528">but the whole huge fabric so tenuous that it was but a fairy outline against the dark blue sky.</span>
   <span id="f000529">It pulsated with a delicate and regular rhythm.</span>
   <span id="f000530">From it there depended two long,</span>
   <span id="f000531">drooping,</span>
   <span id="f000532">green tentacles,</span>
   <span id="f000533">which swayed slowly backwards and forwards.</span>
   <span id="f000534">This gorgeous vision passed gently with noiseless dignity over my head,</span>
   <span id="f000535">as light and fragile as a soap-bubble,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and drifted upon its stately way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">I had half-turned my monoplane,</span>
   <span id="f000538">that I might look after this beautiful creature,</span>
   <span id="f000539">when,</span>
   <span id="f000540">in a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000541">I found myself amidst a perfect fleet of them,</span>
   <span id="f000542">of all sizes,</span>
   <span id="f000543">but none so large as the first.</span>
   <span id="f000544">Some were quite small,</span>
   <span id="f000545">but the majority about as big as an average balloon,</span>
   <span id="f000546">and with much the same curvature at the top.</span>
   <span id="f000547">There was in them a delicacy of texture and colouring which reminded me of the finest Venetian glass.</span>
   <span id="f000548">Pale shades of pink and green were the prevailing tints,</span>
   <span id="f000549">but all had a lovely iridescence where the sun shimmered through their dainty forms.</span>
   <span id="f000550">Some hundreds of them drifted past me,</span>
   <span id="f000551">a wonderful fairy squadron of strange unknown argosies of the sky – creatures whose forms and substance were so attuned to these pure heights that one could not conceive anything so delicate within actual sight or sound of earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">But soon my attention was drawn to a new phenomenon – the serpents of the outer air.</span>
   <span id="f000553">These were long,</span>
   <span id="f000554">thin,</span>
   <span id="f000555">fantastic coils of vapour-like material,</span>
   <span id="f000556">which turned and twisted with great speed,</span>
   <span id="f000557">flying round and round at such a pace that the eyes could hardly follow them.</span>
   <span id="f000558">Some of these ghost-like creatures were twenty or thirty feet long,</span>
   <span id="f000559">but it was difficult to tell their girth,</span>
   <span id="f000560">for their outline was so hazy that it seemed to fade away into the air around them.</span>
   <span id="f000561">These air-snakes were of a very light grey or smoke colour,</span>
   <span id="f000562">with some darker lines within,</span>
   <span id="f000563">which gave the impression of a definite organism.</span>
   <span id="f000564">One of them whisked past my very face,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and I was conscious of a cold,</span>
   <span id="f000566">clammy contact,</span>
   <span id="f000567">but their composition was so unsubstantial that I could not connect them with any thought of physical danger,</span>
   <span id="f000568">any more than the beautiful bell-like creatures which had preceded them.</span>
   <span id="f000569">There was no more solidity in their frames than in the floating spume from a broken wave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">But a more terrible experience was in store for me.</span>
   <span id="f000571">Floating downwards from a great height there came a purplish patch of vapour,</span>
   <span id="f000572">small as I saw it first,</span>
   <span id="f000573">but rapidly enlarging as it approached me,</span>
   <span id="f000574">until it appeared to be hundreds of square feet in size.</span>
   <span id="f000575">Though fashioned of some transparent,</span>
   <span id="f000576">jelly-like substance,</span>
   <span id="f000577">it was none the less of much more definite outline and solid consistence than anything which I had seen before.</span>
   <span id="f000578">There were more traces,</span>
   <span id="f000579">too,</span>
   <span id="f000580">of a physical organization,</span>
   <span id="f000581">especially two vast,</span>
   <span id="f000582">shadowy,</span>
   <span id="f000583">circular plates upon either side,</span>
   <span id="f000584">which may have been eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and a perfectly solid white projection between them which was as curved and cruel as the beak of a vulture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">The whole aspect of this monster was formidable and threatening,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and it kept changing its colour from a very light mauve to a dark,</span>
   <span id="f000588">angry purple so thick that it cast a shadow as it drifted between my monoplane and the sun.</span>
   <span id="f000589">On the upper curve of its huge body there were three great projections which I can only describe as enormous bubbles,</span>
   <span id="f000590">and I was convinced as I looked at them that they were charged with some extremely light gas which served to buoy up the misshapen and semi-solid mass in the rarefied air.</span>
   <span id="f000591">The creature moved swiftly along,</span>
   <span id="f000592">keeping pace easily with the monoplane,</span>
   <span id="f000593">and for twenty miles or more it formed my horrible escort,</span>
   <span id="f000594">hovering over me like a bird of prey which is waiting to pounce.</span>
   <span id="f000595">Its method of progression – done so swiftly that it was not easy to follow – was to throw out a long,</span>
   <span id="f000596">glutinous streamer in front of it,</span>
   <span id="f000597">which in turn seemed to draw forward the rest of the writhing body.</span>
   <span id="f000598">So elastic and gelatinous was it that never for two successive minutes was it the same shape,</span>
   <span id="f000599">and yet each change made it more threatening and loathsome than the last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">I knew that it meant mischief.</span>
   <span id="f000601">Every purple flush of its hideous body told me so.</span>
   <span id="f000602">The vague,</span>
   <span id="f000603">goggling eyes which were turned always upon me were cold and merciless in their viscid hatred.</span>
   <span id="f000604">I dipped the nose of my monoplane downwards to escape it.</span>
   <span id="f000605">As I did so,</span>
   <span id="f000606">as quick as a flash there shot out a long tentacle from this mass of floating blubber,</span>
   <span id="f000607">and it fell as light and sinuous as a whip-lash across the front of my machine.</span>
   <span id="f000608">There was a loud hiss as it lay for a moment across the hot engine,</span>
   <span id="f000609">and it whisked itself into the air again,</span>
   <span id="f000610">while the huge,</span>
   <span id="f000611">flat body drew itself together as if in sudden pain.</span>
   <span id="f000612">I dipped to a vol-pique,</span>
   <span id="f000613">but again a tentacle fell over the monoplane and was shorn off by the propeller as easily as it might have cut through a smoke wreath.</span>
   <span id="f000614">A long,</span>
   <span id="f000615">gliding,</span>
   <span id="f000616">sticky,</span>
   <span id="f000617">serpent-like coil came from behind and caught me round the waist,</span>
   <span id="f000618">dragging me out of the fuselage.</span>
   <span id="f000619">I tore at it,</span>
   <span id="f000620">my fingers sinking into the smooth,</span>
   <span id="f000621">glue-like surface,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and for an instant I disengaged myself,</span>
   <span id="f000623">but only to be caught round the boot by another coil,</span>
   <span id="f000624">which gave me a jerk that tilted me almost on to my back.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">As I fell over I blazed off both barrels of my gun,</span>
   <span id="f000626">though,</span>
   <span id="f000627">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000628">it was like attacking an elephant with a pea-shooter to imagine that any human weapon could cripple that mighty bulk.</span>
   <span id="f000629">And yet I aimed better than I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000630">for,</span>
   <span id="f000631">with a loud report,</span>
   <span id="f000632">one of the great blisters upon the creature’s back exploded with the puncture of the buck-shot.</span>
   <span id="f000633">It was very clear that my conjecture was right,</span>
   <span id="f000634">and that these vast,</span>
   <span id="f000635">clear bladders were distended with some lifting gas,</span>
   <span id="f000636">for in an instant the huge,</span>
   <span id="f000637">cloud-like body turned sideways,</span>
   <span id="f000638">writhing desperately to find its balance,</span>
   <span id="f000639">while the white beak snapped and gaped in horrible fury.</span>
   <span id="f000640">But already I had shot away on the steepest glide that I dared to attempt,</span>
   <span id="f000641">my engine still full on,</span>
   <span id="f000642">the flying propeller and the force of gravity shooting me downwards like an aerolite.</span>
   <span id="f000643">Far behind me I saw a dull,</span>
   <span id="f000644">purplish smudge growing swiftly smaller and merging into the blue sky behind it.</span>
   <span id="f000645">I was safe out of the deadly jungle of the outer air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">Once out of danger I throttled my engine,</span>
   <span id="f000647">for nothing tears a machine to pieces quicker than running on full power from a height.</span>
   <span id="f000648">It was a glorious,</span>
   <span id="f000649">spiral vol-plane from nearly eight miles of altitude – first,</span>
   <span id="f000650">to the level of the silver cloud-bank,</span>
   <span id="f000651">then to that of the storm-cloud beneath it,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and finally,</span>
   <span id="f000653">in beating rain,</span>
   <span id="f000654">to the surface of the earth.</span>
   <span id="f000655">I saw the Bristol Channel beneath me as I broke from the clouds,</span>
   <span id="f000656">but,</span>
   <span id="f000657">having still some petrol in my tank,</span>
   <span id="f000658">I got twenty miles inland before I found myself stranded in a field half a mile from the village of Ashcombe.</span>
   <span id="f000659">There I got three tins of petrol from a passing motor-car,</span>
   <span id="f000660">and at ten minutes past six that evening I alighted gently in my own home meadow at Devizes,</span>
   <span id="f000661">after such a journey as no mortal upon earth has ever yet taken and lived to tell the tale.</span>
   <span id="f000662">I have seen the beauty and I have seen the horror of the heights – and greater beauty or greater horror than that is not within the ken of man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">“And now it is my plan to go once again before I give my results to the world.</span>
   <span id="f000664">My reason for this is that I must surely have something to show by way of proof before I lay such a tale before my fellow-men.</span>
   <span id="f000665">It is true that others will soon follow and will confirm what I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and yet I should wish to carry conviction from the first.</span>
   <span id="f000667">Those lovely iridescent bubbles of the air should not be hard to capture.</span>
   <span id="f000668">They drift slowly upon their way,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and the swift monoplane could intercept their leisurely course.</span>
   <span id="f000670">It is likely enough that they would dissolve in the heavier layers of the atmosphere,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and that some small heap of amorphous jelly might be all that I should bring to earth with me.</span>
   <span id="f000672">And yet something there would surely be by which I could substantiate my story.</span>
   <span id="f000673">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000674">I will go,</span>
   <span id="f000675">even if I run a risk by doing so.</span>
   <span id="f000676">These purple horrors would not seem to be numerous.</span>
   <span id="f000677">It is probable that I shall not see one.</span>
   <span id="f000678">If I do I shall dive at once.</span>
   <span id="f000679">At the worst there is always the shot-gun and my knowledge of …</span>
   <span id="f000680">”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000681">Here a page of the manuscript is unfortunately missing.</span>
   <span id="f000682">On the next page is written,</span>
   <span id="f000683">in large,</span>
   <span id="f000684">straggling writing:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000685">“Forty-three thousand feet.</span>
   <span id="f000686">I shall never see earth again.</span>
   <span id="f000687">They are beneath me,</span>
   <span id="f000688">three of them.</span>
   <span id="f000689">God help me;</span>
   <span id="f000690">it is a dreadful death to die!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000691">Such in its entirety is the Joyce-Armstrong Statement.</span>
   <span id="f000692">Of the man nothing has since been seen.</span>
   <span id="f000693">Pieces of his shattered monoplane have been picked up in the preserves of Mr.&#160;Budd-Lushington upon the borders of Kent and Sussex,</span>
   <span id="f000694">within a few miles of the spot where the note-book was discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000695">If the unfortunate aviator’s theory is correct that this air-jungle,</span>
   <span id="f000696">as he called it,</span>
   <span id="f000697">existed only over the south-west of England,</span>
   <span id="f000698">then it would seem that he had fled from it at the full speed of his monoplane,</span>
   <span id="f000699">but had been overtaken and devoured by these horrible creatures at some spot in the outer atmosphere above the place where the grim relics were found.</span>
   <span id="f000700">The picture of that monoplane skimming down the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000701">with the nameless terrors flying as swiftly beneath it and cutting it off always from the earth while they gradually closed in upon their victim,</span>
   <span id="f000702">is one upon which a man who valued his sanity would prefer not to dwell.</span>
   <span id="f000703">There are many,</span>
   <span id="f000704">as I am aware,</span>
   <span id="f000705">who still jeer at the facts which I have here set down,</span>
   <span id="f000706">but even they must admit that Joyce-Armstrong has disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and I would commend to them his own words:</span>
   <span id="f000708">“This note-book may explain what I am trying to do,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and how I lost my life in doing it.</span>
   <span id="f000710">But no drivel about accidents or mysteries,</span>
   <span id="f000711">if YOU please.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

