<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Cask of Amontillado</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edgar Allan Poe</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">The thousand injuries of Fortunato I had borne as I best could;</span>
   <span id="f000008">but when he ventured upon insult,</span>
   <span id="f000009">I vowed revenge.</span>
   <span id="f000010">You,</span>
   <span id="f000011">who so well know the nature of my soul,</span>
   <span id="f000012">will not suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000013">however,</span>
   <span id="f000014">that I gave utterance to a threat.</span>
   <span id="f000015"><em>At length</em> I would be avenged;</span>
   <span id="f000016">this was a point definitively settled – but the very definitiveness with which it was resolved,</span>
   <span id="f000017">precluded the idea of risk.</span>
   <span id="f000018">I must not only punish,</span>
   <span id="f000019">but punish with impunity.</span>
   <span id="f000020">A wrong is unredressed when retribution overtakes its redresser.</span>
   <span id="f000021">It is equally unredressed when the avenger fails to make himself felt as such to him who has done the wrong.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">It must be understood,</span>
   <span id="f000023">that neither by word nor deed had I given Fortunato cause to doubt my good will.</span>
   <span id="f000024">I continued,</span>
   <span id="f000025">as was my wont,</span>
   <span id="f000026">to smile in his face,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and he did not perceive that my smile <em>now</em> was at the thought of his immolation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">He had a weak point – this Fortunato – although in other regards he was a man to be respected and even feared.</span>
   <span id="f000029">He prided himself on his connoisseurship in wine.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Few Italians have the true virtuoso spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000031">For the most part their enthusiasm is adopted to suit the time and opportunity – to practise imposture upon the British and Austrian <em>millionaires</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000032">In painting and gemmary,</span>
   <span id="f000033">Fortunato,</span>
   <span id="f000034">like his countrymen,</span>
   <span id="f000035">was a quack – but in the matter of old wines he was sincere.</span>
   <span id="f000036">In this respect I did not differ from him materially:</span>
   <span id="f000037">I was skilful in the Italian vintages myself,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and bought largely whenever I could.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">It was about dusk,</span>
   <span id="f000040">one evening during the supreme madness of the carnival season,</span>
   <span id="f000041">that I encountered my friend.</span>
   <span id="f000042">He accosted me with excessive warmth,</span>
   <span id="f000043">for he had been drinking much.</span>
   <span id="f000044">The man wore motley.</span>
   <span id="f000045">He had on a tight-fitting parti-striped dress,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and his head was surmounted by the conical cap and bells.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I was so pleased to see him,</span>
   <span id="f000048">that I thought I should never have done wringing his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">I said to him – “My dear Fortunato,</span>
   <span id="f000050">you are luckily met.</span>
   <span id="f000051">How remarkably well you are looking to-day!</span>
   <span id="f000052">But I have received a pipe of what passes for Amontillado,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and I have my doubts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“How?” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000055">“Amontillado?</span>
   <span id="f000056">A pipe?</span>
   <span id="f000057">Impossible!</span>
   <span id="f000058">And in the middle of the carnival!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“I have my doubts,” I replied;</span>
   <span id="f000060">“and I was silly enough to pay the full Amontillado price without consulting you in the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000061">You were not to be found,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and I was fearful of losing a bargain.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“Amontillado!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“I have my doubts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“Amontillado!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“And I must satisfy them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“Amontillado!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">“As you are engaged,</span>
   <span id="f000069">I am on my way to Luchesi.</span>
   <span id="f000070">If any one has a critical turn,</span>
   <span id="f000071">it is he.</span>
   <span id="f000072">He will tell me – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">“Luchesi cannot tell Amontillado from Sherry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“And yet some fools will have it that his taste is a match for your own.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000076">let us go.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“Whither?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“To your vaults.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“My friend,</span>
   <span id="f000080">no;</span>
   <span id="f000081">I will not impose upon your good nature.</span>
   <span id="f000082">I perceive you have an engagement.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Luchesi – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">“I have no engagement;</span>
   <span id="f000085">– come.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“My friend,</span>
   <span id="f000087">no.</span>
   <span id="f000088">It is not the engagement,</span>
   <span id="f000089">but the severe cold with which I perceive you are afflicted.</span>
   <span id="f000090">The vaults are insufferably damp.</span>
   <span id="f000091">They are encrusted with nitre.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Let us go,</span>
   <span id="f000093">nevertheless.</span>
   <span id="f000094">The cold is merely nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Amontillado!</span>
   <span id="f000096">You have been imposed upon.</span>
   <span id="f000097">And as for Luchesi,</span>
   <span id="f000098">he cannot distinguish Sherry from Amontillado.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">Thus speaking,</span>
   <span id="f000100">Fortunato possessed himself of my arm.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Putting on a mask of black silk,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and drawing a <em>roquelaire</em> closely about my person,</span>
   <span id="f000103">I suffered him to hurry me to my palazzo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">There were no attendants at home;</span>
   <span id="f000105">they had absconded to make merry in honor of the time.</span>
   <span id="f000106">I had told them that I should not return until the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and had given them explicit orders not to stir from the house.</span>
   <span id="f000108">These orders were sufficient,</span>
   <span id="f000109">I well knew,</span>
   <span id="f000110">to insure their immediate disappearance,</span>
   <span id="f000111">one and all,</span>
   <span id="f000112">as soon as my back was turned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">I took from their sconces two flambeaux,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and giving one to Fortunato,</span>
   <span id="f000115">bowed him through several suites of rooms to the archway that led into the vaults.</span>
   <span id="f000116">I passed down a long and winding staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000117">requesting him to be cautious as he followed.</span>
   <span id="f000118">We came at length to the foot of the descent,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and stood together on the damp ground of the catacombs of the Montresors.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">The gait of my friend was unsteady,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and the bells upon his cap jingled as he strode.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“The pipe,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“It is farther on,” said I;</span>
   <span id="f000124">“but observe the white web-work which gleams from these cavern walls.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">He turned towards me,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and looked into my eyes with two filmy orbs that distilled the rheum of intoxication.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“Nitre?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000128">at length.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“Nitre,” I replied.</span>
   <span id="f000130">“How long have you had that cough?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“Ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000132">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000133">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000134">– ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000135">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000136">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000137">– ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000138">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000139">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000140">– ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000141">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000142">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000143">– ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000144">ugh!</span>
   <span id="f000145">ugh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">My poor friend found it impossible to reply for many minutes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“It is nothing,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000148">at last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“Come,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000150">with decision,</span>
   <span id="f000151">“we will go back;</span>
   <span id="f000152">your health is precious.</span>
   <span id="f000153">You are rich,</span>
   <span id="f000154">respected,</span>
   <span id="f000155">admired,</span>
   <span id="f000156">beloved;</span>
   <span id="f000157">you are happy,</span>
   <span id="f000158">as once I was.</span>
   <span id="f000159">You are a man to be missed.</span>
   <span id="f000160">For me it is no matter.</span>
   <span id="f000161">We will go back;</span>
   <span id="f000162">you will be ill,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and I cannot be responsible.</span>
   <span id="f000164">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000165">there is Luchesi – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Enough,” he said;</span>
   <span id="f000167">“the cough is a mere nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000168">it will not kill me.</span>
   <span id="f000169">I shall not die of a cough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">“True – true,” I replied;</span>
   <span id="f000171">“and,</span>
   <span id="f000172">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000173">I had no intention of alarming you unnecessarily – but you should use all proper caution.</span>
   <span id="f000174">A draught of this Medoc will defend us from the damps.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">Here I knocked off the neck of a bottle which I drew from a long row of its fellows that lay upon the mould.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“Drink,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000177">presenting him the wine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">He raised it to his lips with a leer.</span>
   <span id="f000179">He paused and nodded to me familiarly,</span>
   <span id="f000180">while his bells jingled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“I drink,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000182">“to the buried that repose around us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">“And I to your long life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">He again took my arm,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and we proceeded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“These vaults,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000187">“are extensive.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“The Montresors,” I replied,</span>
   <span id="f000189">“were a great and numerous family.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“I forget your arms.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“A huge human foot d’or,</span>
   <span id="f000192">in a field azure;</span>
   <span id="f000193">the foot crushes a serpent rampant whose fangs are imbedded in the heel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“And the motto?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“<em>Nemo me impune lacessit</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Good!” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">The wine sparkled in his eyes and the bells jingled.</span>
   <span id="f000198">My own fancy grew warm with the Medoc.</span>
   <span id="f000199">We had passed through walls of piled bones,</span>
   <span id="f000200">with casks and puncheons intermingling,</span>
   <span id="f000201">into the inmost recesses of the catacombs.</span>
   <span id="f000202">I paused again,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and this time I made bold to seize Fortunato by an arm above the elbow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“The nitre!” I said:</span>
   <span id="f000205">“see,</span>
   <span id="f000206">it increases.</span>
   <span id="f000207">It hangs like moss upon the vaults.</span>
   <span id="f000208">We are below the river’s bed.</span>
   <span id="f000209">The drops of moisture trickle among the bones.</span>
   <span id="f000210">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000211">we will go back ere it is too late.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Your cough – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“It is nothing,” he said;</span>
   <span id="f000214">“let us go on.</span>
   <span id="f000215">But first,</span>
   <span id="f000216">another draught of the Medoc.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">I broke and reached him a flagon of De Grâve.</span>
   <span id="f000218">He emptied it at a breath.</span>
   <span id="f000219">His eyes flashed with a fierce light.</span>
   <span id="f000220">He laughed and threw the bottle upwards with a gesticulation I did not understand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">I looked at him in surprise.</span>
   <span id="f000222">He repeated the movement – a grotesque one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">“You do not comprehend?” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“Not I,” I replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“Then you are not of the brotherhood.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“How?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“You are not of the masons.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000229">yes,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000230">“yes,</span>
   <span id="f000231">yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“You?</span>
   <span id="f000233">Impossible!</span>
   <span id="f000234">A mason?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“A mason,” I replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“A sign,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“It is this,” I answered,</span>
   <span id="f000238">producing a trowel from beneath the folds of my <em>roquelaire</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“You jest,” he exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000240">recoiling a few paces.</span>
   <span id="f000241">“But let us proceed to the Amontillado.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“Be it so,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000243">replacing the tool beneath the cloak,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and again offering him my arm.</span>
   <span id="f000245">He leaned upon it heavily.</span>
   <span id="f000246">We continued our route in search of the Amontillado.</span>
   <span id="f000247">We passed through a range of low arches,</span>
   <span id="f000248">descended,</span>
   <span id="f000249">passed on,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and descending again,</span>
   <span id="f000251">arrived at a deep crypt,</span>
   <span id="f000252">in which the foulness of the air caused our flambeaux rather to glow than flame.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">At the most remote end of the crypt there appeared another less spacious.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Its walls had been lined with human remains,</span>
   <span id="f000255">piled to the vault overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000256">in the fashion of the great catacombs of Paris.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Three sides of this interior crypt were still ornamented in this manner.</span>
   <span id="f000258">From the fourth the bones had been thrown down,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and lay promiscuously upon the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000260">forming at one point a mound of some size.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Within the wall thus exposed by the displacing of the bones,</span>
   <span id="f000262">we perceived a still interior recess,</span>
   <span id="f000263">in depth about four feet,</span>
   <span id="f000264">in width three,</span>
   <span id="f000265">in height six or seven.</span>
   <span id="f000266">It seemed to have been constructed for no especial use in itself,</span>
   <span id="f000267">but formed merely the interval between two of the colossal supports of the roof of the catacombs,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and was backed by one of their circumscribing walls of solid granite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">It was in vain that Fortunato,</span>
   <span id="f000270">uplifting his dull torch,</span>
   <span id="f000271">endeavored to pry into the depths of the recess.</span>
   <span id="f000272">Its termination the feeble light did not enable us to see.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“Proceed,” I said;</span>
   <span id="f000274">“herein is the Amontillado.</span>
   <span id="f000275">As for Luchesi – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">“He is an ignoramus,” interrupted my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000277">as he stepped unsteadily forward,</span>
   <span id="f000278">while I followed immediately at his heels.</span>
   <span id="f000279">In an instant he had reached the extremity of the niche,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and finding his progress arrested by the rock,</span>
   <span id="f000281">stood stupidly bewildered.</span>
   <span id="f000282">A moment more and I had fettered him to the granite.</span>
   <span id="f000283">In its surface were two iron staples,</span>
   <span id="f000284">distant from each other about two feet,</span>
   <span id="f000285">horizontally.</span>
   <span id="f000286">From one of these depended a short chain,</span>
   <span id="f000287">from the other a padlock.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Throwing the links about his waist,</span>
   <span id="f000289">it was but the work of a few seconds to secure it.</span>
   <span id="f000290">He was too much astounded to resist.</span>
   <span id="f000291">Withdrawing the key I stepped back from the recess.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“Pass your hand,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000293">“over the wall;</span>
   <span id="f000294">you cannot help feeling the nitre.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Indeed it is <em>very</em> damp.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Once more let me <em>implore</em> you to return.</span>
   <span id="f000297">No?</span>
   <span id="f000298">Then I must positively leave you.</span>
   <span id="f000299">But I must first render you all the little attentions in my power.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“The Amontillado!” ejaculated my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000301">not yet recovered from his astonishment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">“True,” I replied;</span>
   <span id="f000303">“the Amontillado.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">As I said these words I busied myself among the pile of bones of which I have before spoken.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Throwing them aside,</span>
   <span id="f000306">I soon uncovered a quantity of building stone and mortar.</span>
   <span id="f000307">With these materials and with the aid of my trowel,</span>
   <span id="f000308">I began vigorously to wall up the entrance of the niche.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">I had scarcely laid the first tier of my masonry when I discovered that the intoxication of Fortunato had in a great measure worn off.</span>
   <span id="f000310">The earliest indication I had of this was a low moaning cry from the depth of the recess.</span>
   <span id="f000311">It was <em>not</em> the cry of a drunken man.</span>
   <span id="f000312">There was then a long and obstinate silence.</span>
   <span id="f000313">I laid the second tier,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and the third,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and the fourth;</span>
   <span id="f000316">and then I heard the furious vibrations of the chain.</span>
   <span id="f000317">The noise lasted for several minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000318">during which,</span>
   <span id="f000319">that I might hearken to it with the more satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000320">I ceased my labors and sat down upon the bones.</span>
   <span id="f000321">When at last the clanking subsided,</span>
   <span id="f000322">I resumed the trowel,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and finished without interruption the fifth,</span>
   <span id="f000324">the sixth,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and the seventh tier.</span>
   <span id="f000326">The wall was now nearly upon a level with my breast.</span>
   <span id="f000327">I again paused,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and holding the flambeaux over the mason-work,</span>
   <span id="f000329">threw a few feeble rays upon the figure within.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">A succession of loud and shrill screams,</span>
   <span id="f000331">bursting suddenly from the throat of the chained form,</span>
   <span id="f000332">seemed to thrust me violently back.</span>
   <span id="f000333">For a brief moment I hesitated – I trembled.</span>
   <span id="f000334">Unsheathing my rapier,</span>
   <span id="f000335">I began to grope with it about the recess:</span>
   <span id="f000336">but the thought of an instant reassured me.</span>
   <span id="f000337">I placed my hand upon the solid fabric of the catacombs,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and felt satisfied.</span>
   <span id="f000339">I reapproached the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000340">I replied to the yells of him who clamored.</span>
   <span id="f000341">I re-echoed – I aided – I surpassed them in volume and in strength.</span>
   <span id="f000342">I did this,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and the clamorer grew still.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">It was now midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and my task was drawing to a close.</span>
   <span id="f000346">I had completed the eighth,</span>
   <span id="f000347">the ninth,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and the tenth tier.</span>
   <span id="f000349">I had finished a portion of the last and the eleventh;</span>
   <span id="f000350">there remained but a single stone to be fitted and plastered in.</span>
   <span id="f000351">I struggled with its weight;</span>
   <span id="f000352">I placed it partially in its destined position.</span>
   <span id="f000353">But now there came from out the niche a low laugh that erected the hairs upon my head.</span>
   <span id="f000354">It was succeeded by a sad voice,</span>
   <span id="f000355">which I had difficulty in recognising as that of the noble Fortunato.</span>
   <span id="f000356">The voice said –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000358">ha!</span>
   <span id="f000359">ha!</span>
   <span id="f000360">– he!</span>
   <span id="f000361">he!</span>
   <span id="f000362">– a very good joke indeed – an excellent jest.</span>
   <span id="f000363">We will have many a rich laugh about it at the palazzo – he!</span>
   <span id="f000364">he!</span>
   <span id="f000365">he!</span>
   <span id="f000366">– over our wine – he!</span>
   <span id="f000367">he!</span>
   <span id="f000368">he!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“The Amontillado!” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">“He!</span>
   <span id="f000371">he!</span>
   <span id="f000372">he!</span>
   <span id="f000373">– he!</span>
   <span id="f000374">he!</span>
   <span id="f000375">he!</span>
   <span id="f000376">– yes,</span>
   <span id="f000377">the Amontillado.</span>
   <span id="f000378">But is it not getting late?</span>
   <span id="f000379">Will not they be awaiting us at the palazzo,</span>
   <span id="f000380">the Lady Fortunato and the rest?</span>
   <span id="f000381">Let us be gone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">“Yes,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000383">“let us be gone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“<em>For the love of God, </em></span>
   <span id="f000385"><em>Montressor!</em>”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">“Yes,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000387">“for the love of God!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">But to these words I hearkened in vain for a reply.</span>
   <span id="f000389">I grew impatient.</span>
   <span id="f000390">I called aloud –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“Fortunato!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">No answer.</span>
   <span id="f000393">I called again –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“Fortunato!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">No answer still.</span>
   <span id="f000396">I thrust a torch through the remaining aperture and let it fall within.</span>
   <span id="f000397">There came forth in return only a jingling of the bells.</span>
   <span id="f000398">My heart grew sick – on account of the dampness of the catacombs.</span>
   <span id="f000399">I hastened to make an end of my labor.</span>
   <span id="f000400">I forced the last stone into its position;</span>
   <span id="f000401">I plastered it up.</span>
   <span id="f000402">Against the new masonry I re-erected the old rampart of bones.</span>
   <span id="f000403">For the half of a century no mortal has disturbed them.</span>
   <span id="f000404"><em>In pace requiescat!</em></span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

