<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />James K. White</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000004">The Piazza</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000005">by<br />Herman Melville</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000006">“With fairest flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000007">Whilst summer lasts,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and I live here,</span>
   <span id="f000009">Fidele – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000010">When I removed into the country,</span>
   <span id="f000011">it was to occupy an old-fashioned farm-house,</span>
   <span id="f000012">which had no piazza – a deficiency the more regretted,</span>
   <span id="f000013">because not only did I like piazzas,</span>
   <span id="f000014">as somehow combining the coziness of in-doors with the freedom of out-doors,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and it is so pleasant to inspect your thermometer there,</span>
   <span id="f000016">but the country round about was such a picture,</span>
   <span id="f000017">that in berry time no boy climbs hill or crosses vale without coming upon easels planted in every nook,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and sun-burnt painters painting there.</span>
   <span id="f000019">A very paradise of painters.</span>
   <span id="f000020">The circle of the stars cut by the circle of the mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000021">At least,</span>
   <span id="f000022">so looks it from the house;</span>
   <span id="f000023">though,</span>
   <span id="f000024">once upon the mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000025">no circle of them can you see.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Had the site been chosen five rods off,</span>
   <span id="f000027">this charmed ring would not have been.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">The house is old.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Seventy years since,</span>
   <span id="f000030">from the heart of the Hearth Stone Hills,</span>
   <span id="f000031">they quarried the Kaaba,</span>
   <span id="f000032">or Holy Stone,</span>
   <span id="f000033">to which,</span>
   <span id="f000034">each Thanksgiving,</span>
   <span id="f000035">the social pilgrims used to come.</span>
   <span id="f000036">So long ago,</span>
   <span id="f000037">that,</span>
   <span id="f000038">in digging for the foundation,</span>
   <span id="f000039">the workmen used both spade and axe,</span>
   <span id="f000040">fighting the Troglodytes of those subterranean parts – sturdy roots of a sturdy wood,</span>
   <span id="f000041">encamped upon what is now a long land-slide of sleeping meadow,</span>
   <span id="f000042">sloping away off from my poppy-bed.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Of that knit wood,</span>
   <span id="f000044">but one survivor stands – an elm,</span>
   <span id="f000045">lonely through steadfastness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">Whoever built the house,</span>
   <span id="f000047">he builded better than he knew;</span>
   <span id="f000048">or else Orion in the zenith flashed down his Damocles’ sword to him some starry night,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000050">“Build there.” For how,</span>
   <span id="f000051">otherwise,</span>
   <span id="f000052">could it have entered the builder’s mind,</span>
   <span id="f000053">that,</span>
   <span id="f000054">upon the clearing being made,</span>
   <span id="f000055">such a purple prospect would be his?</span>
   <span id="f000056">– nothing less than Greylock,</span>
   <span id="f000057">with all his hills about him,</span>
   <span id="f000058">like Charlemagne among his peers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000060">for a house,</span>
   <span id="f000061">so situated in such a country,</span>
   <span id="f000062">to have no piazza for the convenience of those who might desire to feast upon the view,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and take their time and ease about it,</span>
   <span id="f000064">seemed as much of an omission as if a picture-gallery should have no bench;</span>
   <span id="f000065">for what but picture-galleries are the marble halls of these same limestone hills?</span>
   <span id="f000066">– galleries hung,</span>
   <span id="f000067">month after month anew,</span>
   <span id="f000068">with pictures ever fading into pictures ever fresh.</span>
   <span id="f000069">And beauty is like piety – you cannot run and read it;</span>
   <span id="f000070">tranquillity and constancy,</span>
   <span id="f000071">with,</span>
   <span id="f000072">now-a-days,</span>
   <span id="f000073">an easy chair,</span>
   <span id="f000074">are needed.</span>
   <span id="f000075">For though,</span>
   <span id="f000076">of old,</span>
   <span id="f000077">when reverence was in vogue,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and indolence was not,</span>
   <span id="f000079">the devotees of Nature,</span>
   <span id="f000080">doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f000081">used to stand and adore – just as,</span>
   <span id="f000082">in the cathedrals of those ages,</span>
   <span id="f000083">the worshipers of a higher Power did – yet,</span>
   <span id="f000084">in these times of failing faith and feeble knees,</span>
   <span id="f000085">we have the piazza and the pew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">During the first year of my residence,</span>
   <span id="f000087">the more leisurely to witness the coronation of Charlemagne</span>
   <span id="f000088">(weather permitting,</span>
   <span id="f000089">they crown him every sunrise and sunset),</span>
   <span id="f000090">I chose me,</span>
   <span id="f000091">on the hill-side bank near by,</span>
   <span id="f000092">a royal lounge of turf – a green velvet lounge,</span>
   <span id="f000093">with long,</span>
   <span id="f000094">moss-padded back;</span>
   <span id="f000095">while at the head,</span>
   <span id="f000096">strangely enough,</span>
   <span id="f000097">there grew</span>
   <span id="f000098">(but,</span>
   <span id="f000099">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000100">for heraldry)</span>
   <span id="f000101">three tufts of blue violets in a field-argent of wild strawberries;</span>
   <span id="f000102">and a trellis,</span>
   <span id="f000103">with honeysuckle,</span>
   <span id="f000104">I set for canopy.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Very majestical lounge,</span>
   <span id="f000106">indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000107">So much so,</span>
   <span id="f000108">that here,</span>
   <span id="f000109">as with the reclining majesty of Denmark in his orchard,</span>
   <span id="f000110">a sly ear-ache invaded me.</span>
   <span id="f000111">But,</span>
   <span id="f000112">if damps abound at times in Westminster Abbey,</span>
   <span id="f000113">because it is so old,</span>
   <span id="f000114">why not within this monastery of mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000115">which is older?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">A piazza must be had.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">The house was wide – my fortune narrow;</span>
   <span id="f000118">so that,</span>
   <span id="f000119">to build a panoramic piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000120">one round and round,</span>
   <span id="f000121">it could not be – although,</span>
   <span id="f000122">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000123">considering the matter by rule and square,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the carpenters,</span>
   <span id="f000125">in the kindest way,</span>
   <span id="f000126">were anxious to gratify my furthest wishes,</span>
   <span id="f000127">at I’ve forgotten how much a foot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">Upon but one of the four sides would prudence grant me what I wanted.</span>
   <span id="f000129">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000130">which side?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">To the east,</span>
   <span id="f000132">that long camp of the Hearth Stone Hills,</span>
   <span id="f000133">fading far away towards Quito;</span>
   <span id="f000134">and every fall,</span>
   <span id="f000135">a small white flake of something peering suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000136">of a coolish morning,</span>
   <span id="f000137">from the topmost cliff – the season’s new-dropped lamb,</span>
   <span id="f000138">its earliest fleece;</span>
   <span id="f000139">and then the Christmas dawn,</span>
   <span id="f000140">draping those dim highlands with red-barred plaids and tartans – goodly sight from your piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000141">that.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Goodly sight;</span>
   <span id="f000143">but,</span>
   <span id="f000144">to the north is Charlemagne – can’t have the Hearth Stone Hills with Charlemagne.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000146">the south side.</span>
   <span id="f000147">Apple-trees are there.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Pleasant,</span>
   <span id="f000149">of a balmy morning,</span>
   <span id="f000150">in the month of May,</span>
   <span id="f000151">to sit and see that orchard,</span>
   <span id="f000152">white-budded,</span>
   <span id="f000153">as for a bridal;</span>
   <span id="f000154">and,</span>
   <span id="f000155">in October,</span>
   <span id="f000156">one green arsenal yard;</span>
   <span id="f000157">such piles of ruddy shot.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Very fine,</span>
   <span id="f000159">I grant;</span>
   <span id="f000160">but,</span>
   <span id="f000161">to the north is Charlemagne.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">The west side,</span>
   <span id="f000163">look.</span>
   <span id="f000164">An upland pasture,</span>
   <span id="f000165">alleying away into a maple wood at top.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000167">in opening spring,</span>
   <span id="f000168">to trace upon the hill-side,</span>
   <span id="f000169">otherwise gray and bare – to trace,</span>
   <span id="f000170">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000171">the oldest paths by their streaks of earliest green.</span>
   <span id="f000172">Sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000173">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000174">I can’t deny;</span>
   <span id="f000175">but,</span>
   <span id="f000176">to the north is Charlemagne.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">So Charlemagne,</span>
   <span id="f000178">he carried it.</span>
   <span id="f000179">It was not long after 1848;</span>
   <span id="f000180">and,</span>
   <span id="f000181">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000182">about that time,</span>
   <span id="f000183">all round the world,</span>
   <span id="f000184">these kings,</span>
   <span id="f000185">they had the casting vote,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and voted for themselves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">No sooner was ground broken,</span>
   <span id="f000188">than all the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000189">neighbor Dives,</span>
   <span id="f000190">in particular,</span>
   <span id="f000191">broke,</span>
   <span id="f000192">too – into a laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Piazza to the north!</span>
   <span id="f000194">Winter piazza!</span>
   <span id="f000195">Wants,</span>
   <span id="f000196">of winter midnights,</span>
   <span id="f000197">to watch the Aurora Borealis,</span>
   <span id="f000198">I suppose;</span>
   <span id="f000199">hope he’s laid in good store of Polar muffs and mittens.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">That was in the lion month of March.</span>
   <span id="f000201">Not forgotten are the blue noses of the carpenters,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and how they scouted at the greenness of the cit,</span>
   <span id="f000203">who would build his sole piazza to the north.</span>
   <span id="f000204">But March don’t last forever;</span>
   <span id="f000205">patience,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and August comes.</span>
   <span id="f000207">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000208">in the cool elysium of my northern bower,</span>
   <span id="f000209">I,</span>
   <span id="f000210">Lazarus in Abraham’s bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000211">cast down the hill a pitying glance on poor old Dives,</span>
   <span id="f000212">tormented in the purgatory of his piazza to the south.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">But,</span>
   <span id="f000214">even in December,</span>
   <span id="f000215">this northern piazza does not repel – nipping cold and gusty though it be,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and the north wind,</span>
   <span id="f000217">like any miller,</span>
   <span id="f000218">bolting by the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000219">in finest flour – for then,</span>
   <span id="f000220">once more,</span>
   <span id="f000221">with frosted beard,</span>
   <span id="f000222">I pace the sleety deck,</span>
   <span id="f000223">weathering Cape Horn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">In summer,</span>
   <span id="f000225">too,</span>
   <span id="f000226">Canute-like,</span>
   <span id="f000227">sitting here,</span>
   <span id="f000228">one is often reminded of the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000229">For not only do long ground-swells roll the slanting grain,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and little wavelets of the grass ripple over upon the low piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000231">as their beach,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and the blown down of dandelions is wafted like the spray,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and the purple of the mountains is just the purple of the billows,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and a still August noon broods upon the deep meadows,</span>
   <span id="f000235">as a calm upon the Line;</span>
   <span id="f000236">but the vastness and the lonesomeness are so oceanic,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and the silence and the sameness,</span>
   <span id="f000238">too,</span>
   <span id="f000239">that the first peep of a strange house,</span>
   <span id="f000240">rising beyond the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000241">is for all the world like spying,</span>
   <span id="f000242">on the Barbary coast,</span>
   <span id="f000243">an unknown sail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">And this recalls my inland voyage to fairy-land.</span>
   <span id="f000245">A true voyage;</span>
   <span id="f000246">but,</span>
   <span id="f000247">take it all in all,</span>
   <span id="f000248">interesting as if invented.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">From the piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000250">some uncertain object I had caught,</span>
   <span id="f000251">mysteriously snugged away,</span>
   <span id="f000252">to all appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000253">in a sort of purpled breast-pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000254">high up in a hopper-like hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000255">or sunken angle,</span>
   <span id="f000256">among the northwestern mountains – yet,</span>
   <span id="f000257">whether,</span>
   <span id="f000258">really,</span>
   <span id="f000259">it was on a mountain-side,</span>
   <span id="f000260">or a mountain-top,</span>
   <span id="f000261">could not be determined;</span>
   <span id="f000262">because,</span>
   <span id="f000263">though,</span>
   <span id="f000264">viewed from favorable points,</span>
   <span id="f000265">a blue summit,</span>
   <span id="f000266">peering up away behind the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000267">will,</span>
   <span id="f000268">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000269">talk to you over their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and plainly tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000271">that,</span>
   <span id="f000272">though he</span>
   <span id="f000273">(the blue summit)</span>
   <span id="f000274">seems among them,</span>
   <span id="f000275">he is not of them</span>
   <span id="f000276">(God forbid!),</span>
   <span id="f000277">and,</span>
   <span id="f000278">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000279">would have you know that he considers himself – as,</span>
   <span id="f000280">to say truth,</span>
   <span id="f000281">he has good right – by several cubits their superior,</span>
   <span id="f000282">nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000283">certain ranges,</span>
   <span id="f000284">here and there double-filed,</span>
   <span id="f000285">as in platoons,</span>
   <span id="f000286">so shoulder and follow up upon one another,</span>
   <span id="f000287">with their irregular shapes and heights,</span>
   <span id="f000288">that,</span>
   <span id="f000289">from the piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000290">a nigher and lower mountain will,</span>
   <span id="f000291">in most states of the atmosphere,</span>
   <span id="f000292">effacingly shade itself away into a higher and further one;</span>
   <span id="f000293">that an object,</span>
   <span id="f000294">bleak on the former’s crest,</span>
   <span id="f000295">will,</span>
   <span id="f000296">for all that,</span>
   <span id="f000297">appear nested in the latter’s flank.</span>
   <span id="f000298">These mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000299">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000300">they play at hide-and-seek,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and all before one’s eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">But,</span>
   <span id="f000303">be that as it may,</span>
   <span id="f000304">the spot in question was,</span>
   <span id="f000305">at all events,</span>
   <span id="f000306">so situated as to be only visible,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and then but vaguely,</span>
   <span id="f000308">under certain witching conditions of light and shadow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000310">for a year or more,</span>
   <span id="f000311">I knew not there was such a spot,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and might,</span>
   <span id="f000313">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000314">have never known,</span>
   <span id="f000315">had it not been for a wizard afternoon in autumn – late in autumn – a mad poet’s afternoon;</span>
   <span id="f000316">when the turned maple woods in the broad basin below me,</span>
   <span id="f000317">having lost their first vermilion tint,</span>
   <span id="f000318">dully smoked,</span>
   <span id="f000319">like smouldering towns,</span>
   <span id="f000320">when flames expire upon their prey;</span>
   <span id="f000321">and rumor had it,</span>
   <span id="f000322">that this smokiness in the general air was not all Indian summer – which was not used to be so sick a thing,</span>
   <span id="f000323">however mild – but,</span>
   <span id="f000324">in great part,</span>
   <span id="f000325">was blown from far-off forests,</span>
   <span id="f000326">for weeks on fire,</span>
   <span id="f000327">in Vermont;</span>
   <span id="f000328">so that no wonder the sky was ominous as Hecate’s cauldron – and two sportsmen,</span>
   <span id="f000329">crossing a red stubble buck-wheat field,</span>
   <span id="f000330">seemed guilty Macbeth and foreboding Banquo;</span>
   <span id="f000331">and the hermit-sun,</span>
   <span id="f000332">hutted in an Adullum cave,</span>
   <span id="f000333">well towards the south,</span>
   <span id="f000334">according to his season,</span>
   <span id="f000335">did little else but,</span>
   <span id="f000336">by indirect reflection of narrow rays shot down a Simplon pass among the clouds,</span>
   <span id="f000337">just steadily paint one small,</span>
   <span id="f000338">round,</span>
   <span id="f000339">strawberry mole upon the wan cheek of northwestern hills.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Signal as a candle.</span>
   <span id="f000341">One spot of radiance,</span>
   <span id="f000342">where all else was shade.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">Fairies there,</span>
   <span id="f000344">thought I;</span>
   <span id="f000345">some haunted ring where fairies dance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">Time passed;</span>
   <span id="f000347">and the following May,</span>
   <span id="f000348">after a gentle shower upon the mountains – a little shower islanded in misty seas of sunshine;</span>
   <span id="f000349">such a distant shower – and sometimes two,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and three,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and four of them,</span>
   <span id="f000352">all visible together in different parts – as I love to watch from the piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000353">instead of thunder storms,</span>
   <span id="f000354">as I used to,</span>
   <span id="f000355">which wrap old Greylock,</span>
   <span id="f000356">like a Sinai,</span>
   <span id="f000357">till one thinks swart Moses must be climbing among scathed hemlocks there;</span>
   <span id="f000358">after,</span>
   <span id="f000359">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000360">that,</span>
   <span id="f000361">gentle shower,</span>
   <span id="f000362">I saw a rainbow,</span>
   <span id="f000363">resting its further end just where,</span>
   <span id="f000364">in autumn,</span>
   <span id="f000365">I had marked the mole.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Fairies there,</span>
   <span id="f000367">thought I;</span>
   <span id="f000368">remembering that rainbows bring out the blooms,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and that,</span>
   <span id="f000370">if one can but get to the rainbow’s end,</span>
   <span id="f000371">his fortune is made in a bag of gold.</span>
   <span id="f000372">Yon rainbow’s end,</span>
   <span id="f000373">would I were there,</span>
   <span id="f000374">thought I.</span>
   <span id="f000375">And none the less I wished it,</span>
   <span id="f000376">for now first noticing what seemed some sort of glen,</span>
   <span id="f000377">or grotto,</span>
   <span id="f000378">in the mountain side;</span>
   <span id="f000379">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000380">whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f000381">viewed through the rainbow’s medium,</span>
   <span id="f000382">it glowed like the Potosi mine.</span>
   <span id="f000383">But a work-a-day neighbor said,</span>
   <span id="f000384">no doubt it was but some old barn – an abandoned one,</span>
   <span id="f000385">its broadside beaten in,</span>
   <span id="f000386">the acclivity its background.</span>
   <span id="f000387">But I,</span>
   <span id="f000388">though I had never been there,</span>
   <span id="f000389">I knew better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">A few days after,</span>
   <span id="f000391">a cheery sunrise kindled a golden sparkle in the same spot as before.</span>
   <span id="f000392">The sparkle was of that vividness,</span>
   <span id="f000393">it seemed as if it could only come from glass.</span>
   <span id="f000394">The building,</span>
   <span id="f000395">then – if building,</span>
   <span id="f000396">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000397">it was – could,</span>
   <span id="f000398">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000399">not be a barn,</span>
   <span id="f000400">much less an abandoned one;</span>
   <span id="f000401">stale hay ten years musting in it.</span>
   <span id="f000402">No;</span>
   <span id="f000403">if aught built by mortal,</span>
   <span id="f000404">it must be a cottage;</span>
   <span id="f000405">perhaps long vacant and dismantled,</span>
   <span id="f000406">but this very spring magically fitted up and glazed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">Again,</span>
   <span id="f000408">one noon,</span>
   <span id="f000409">in the same direction,</span>
   <span id="f000410">I marked,</span>
   <span id="f000411">over dimmed tops of terraced foliage,</span>
   <span id="f000412">a broader gleam,</span>
   <span id="f000413">as of a silver buckler,</span>
   <span id="f000414">held sunwards over some croucher’s head;</span>
   <span id="f000415">which gleam,</span>
   <span id="f000416">experience in like cases taught,</span>
   <span id="f000417">must come from a roof newly shingled.</span>
   <span id="f000418">This,</span>
   <span id="f000419">to me,</span>
   <span id="f000420">made pretty sure the recent occupancy of that far cot in fairy land.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">Day after day,</span>
   <span id="f000422">now,</span>
   <span id="f000423">full of interest in my discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000424">what time I could spare from reading the Midsummer’s Night Dream,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and all about Titania,</span>
   <span id="f000426">wishfully I gazed off towards the hills;</span>
   <span id="f000427">but in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000428">Either troops of shadows,</span>
   <span id="f000429">an imperial guard,</span>
   <span id="f000430">with slow pace and solemn,</span>
   <span id="f000431">defiled along the steeps;</span>
   <span id="f000432">or,</span>
   <span id="f000433">routed by pursuing light,</span>
   <span id="f000434">fled broadcast from east to west – old wars of Lucifer and Michael;</span>
   <span id="f000435">or the mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000436">though unvexed by these mirrored sham fights in the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000437">had an atmosphere otherwise unfavorable for fairy views.</span>
   <span id="f000438">I was sorry;</span>
   <span id="f000439">the more so,</span>
   <span id="f000440">because I had to keep my chamber for some time after – which chamber did not face those hills.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000442">when pretty well again,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and sitting out,</span>
   <span id="f000444">in the September morning,</span>
   <span id="f000445">upon the piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and thinking to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000447">when,</span>
   <span id="f000448">just after a little flock of sheep,</span>
   <span id="f000449">the farmer’s banded children passed,</span>
   <span id="f000450">a-nutting,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000452">“How sweet a day” – it was,</span>
   <span id="f000453">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000454">but what their fathers call a weather-breeder – and,</span>
   <span id="f000455">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000456">was become go sensitive through my illness,</span>
   <span id="f000457">as that I could not bear to look upon a Chinese creeper of my adoption,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and which,</span>
   <span id="f000459">to my delight,</span>
   <span id="f000460">climbing a post of the piazza,</span>
   <span id="f000461">had burst out in starry bloom,</span>
   <span id="f000462">but now,</span>
   <span id="f000463">if you removed the leaves a little,</span>
   <span id="f000464">showed millions of strange,</span>
   <span id="f000465">cankerous worms,</span>
   <span id="f000466">which,</span>
   <span id="f000467">feeding upon those blossoms,</span>
   <span id="f000468">so shared their blessed hue,</span>
   <span id="f000469">as to make it unblessed evermore – worms,</span>
   <span id="f000470">whose germs had doubtless lurked in the very bulb which,</span>
   <span id="f000471">so hopefully,</span>
   <span id="f000472">I had planted:</span>
   <span id="f000473">in this ingrate peevishness of my weary convalescence,</span>
   <span id="f000474">was I sitting there;</span>
   <span id="f000475">when,</span>
   <span id="f000476">suddenly looking off,</span>
   <span id="f000477">I saw the golden mountain-window,</span>
   <span id="f000478">dazzling like a deep-sea dolphin.</span>
   <span id="f000479">Fairies there,</span>
   <span id="f000480">thought I,</span>
   <span id="f000481">once more;</span>
   <span id="f000482">the queen of fairies at her fairy-window;</span>
   <span id="f000483">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000484">some glad mountain-girl;</span>
   <span id="f000485">it will do me good,</span>
   <span id="f000486">it will cure this weariness,</span>
   <span id="f000487">to look on her.</span>
   <span id="f000488">No more;</span>
   <span id="f000489">I’ll launch my yawl – ho,</span>
   <span id="f000490">cheerly,</span>
   <span id="f000491">heart!</span>
   <span id="f000492">and push away for fairy-land – for rainbow’s end,</span>
   <span id="f000493">in fairy-land.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000494">How to get to fairy-land,</span>
   <span id="f000495">by what road,</span>
   <span id="f000496">I did not know;</span>
   <span id="f000497">nor could any one inform me;</span>
   <span id="f000498">not even one Edmund Spenser,</span>
   <span id="f000499">who had been there – so he wrote me – further than that to reach fairy-land,</span>
   <span id="f000500">it must be voyaged to,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and with faith.</span>
   <span id="f000502">I took the fairy-mountain’s bearings,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and the first fine day,</span>
   <span id="f000504">when strength permitted,</span>
   <span id="f000505">got into my yawl – high-pommeled,</span>
   <span id="f000506">leather one – cast off the fast,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and away I sailed,</span>
   <span id="f000508">free voyager as an autumn leaf.</span>
   <span id="f000509">Early dawn;</span>
   <span id="f000510">and,</span>
   <span id="f000511">sallying westward,</span>
   <span id="f000512">I sowed the morning before me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">Some miles brought me nigh the hills;</span>
   <span id="f000514">but out of present sight of them.</span>
   <span id="f000515">I was not lost;</span>
   <span id="f000516">for road-side golden-rods,</span>
   <span id="f000517">as guide-posts,</span>
   <span id="f000518">pointed,</span>
   <span id="f000519">I doubted not,</span>
   <span id="f000520">the way to the golden window.</span>
   <span id="f000521">Following them,</span>
   <span id="f000522">I came to a lone and languid region,</span>
   <span id="f000523">where the grass-grown ways were traveled but by drowsy cattle,</span>
   <span id="f000524">that,</span>
   <span id="f000525">less waked than stirred by day,</span>
   <span id="f000526">seemed to walk in sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000527">Browse,</span>
   <span id="f000528">they did not – the enchanted never eat.</span>
   <span id="f000529">At least,</span>
   <span id="f000530">so says Don Quixote,</span>
   <span id="f000531">that sagest sage that ever lived.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">On I went,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and gained at last the fairy mountain’s base,</span>
   <span id="f000534">but saw yet no fairy ring.</span>
   <span id="f000535">A pasture rose before me.</span>
   <span id="f000536">Letting down five mouldering bars – so moistly green,</span>
   <span id="f000537">they seemed fished up from some sunken wreck – a wigged old Aries,</span>
   <span id="f000538">long-visaged,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and with crumpled horn,</span>
   <span id="f000540">came snuffing up;</span>
   <span id="f000541">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000542">retreating,</span>
   <span id="f000543">decorously led on along a milky-way of white-weed,</span>
   <span id="f000544">past dim-clustering Pleiades and Hyades,</span>
   <span id="f000545">of small forget-me-nots;</span>
   <span id="f000546">and would have led me further still his astral path,</span>
   <span id="f000547">but for golden flights of yellow-birds – pilots,</span>
   <span id="f000548">surely,</span>
   <span id="f000549">to the golden window,</span>
   <span id="f000550">to one side flying before me,</span>
   <span id="f000551">from bush to bush,</span>
   <span id="f000552">towards deep woods – which woods themselves were luring – and,</span>
   <span id="f000553">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000554">lured,</span>
   <span id="f000555">too,</span>
   <span id="f000556">by their fence,</span>
   <span id="f000557">banning a dark road,</span>
   <span id="f000558">which,</span>
   <span id="f000559">however dark,</span>
   <span id="f000560">led up.</span>
   <span id="f000561">I pushed through;</span>
   <span id="f000562">when Aries,</span>
   <span id="f000563">renouncing me now for some lost soul,</span>
   <span id="f000564">wheeled,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and went his wiser way…</span>
   <span id="f000566">.</span>
   <span id="f000567">Forbidding and forbidden ground – to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">A winter wood road,</span>
   <span id="f000569">matted all along with winter-green.</span>
   <span id="f000570">By the side of pebbly waters – waters the cheerier for their solitude;</span>
   <span id="f000571">beneath swaying fir-boughs,</span>
   <span id="f000572">petted by no season,</span>
   <span id="f000573">but still green in all,</span>
   <span id="f000574">on I journeyed – my horse and I;</span>
   <span id="f000575">on,</span>
   <span id="f000576">by an old saw-mill,</span>
   <span id="f000577">bound down and hushed with vines,</span>
   <span id="f000578">that his grating voice no more was heard;</span>
   <span id="f000579">on,</span>
   <span id="f000580">by a deep flume clove through snowy marble,</span>
   <span id="f000581">vernal-tinted,</span>
   <span id="f000582">where freshet eddies had,</span>
   <span id="f000583">on each side,</span>
   <span id="f000584">spun out empty chapels in the living rock;</span>
   <span id="f000585">on,</span>
   <span id="f000586">where Jacks-in-the-pulpit,</span>
   <span id="f000587">like their Baptist namesake,</span>
   <span id="f000588">preached but to the wilderness;</span>
   <span id="f000589">on,</span>
   <span id="f000590">where a huge,</span>
   <span id="f000591">cross-grain block,</span>
   <span id="f000592">fern-bedded,</span>
   <span id="f000593">showed where,</span>
   <span id="f000594">in forgotten times,</span>
   <span id="f000595">man after man had tried to split it,</span>
   <span id="f000596">but lost his wedges for his pains – which wedges yet rusted in their holes;</span>
   <span id="f000597">on,</span>
   <span id="f000598">where,</span>
   <span id="f000599">ages past,</span>
   <span id="f000600">in step-like ledges of a cascade,</span>
   <span id="f000601">skull-hollow pots had been churned out by ceaseless whirling of a flintstone – ever wearing,</span>
   <span id="f000602">but itself unworn;</span>
   <span id="f000603">on,</span>
   <span id="f000604">by wild rapids pouring into a secret pool,</span>
   <span id="f000605">but soothed by circling there awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000606">issued forth serenely;</span>
   <span id="f000607">on,</span>
   <span id="f000608">to less broken ground,</span>
   <span id="f000609">and by a little ring,</span>
   <span id="f000610">where,</span>
   <span id="f000611">truly,</span>
   <span id="f000612">fairies must have danced,</span>
   <span id="f000613">or else some wheel-tire been heated – for all was bare;</span>
   <span id="f000614">still on,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and up,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and out into a hanging orchard,</span>
   <span id="f000617">where maidenly looked down upon me a crescent moon,</span>
   <span id="f000618">from morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">My horse hitched low his head.</span>
   <span id="f000620">Red apples rolled before him;</span>
   <span id="f000621">Eve’s apples;</span>
   <span id="f000622">seek-no-furthers.</span>
   <span id="f000623">He tasted one,</span>
   <span id="f000624">I another;</span>
   <span id="f000625">it tasted of the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000626">Fairy land not yet,</span>
   <span id="f000627">thought I,</span>
   <span id="f000628">flinging my bridle to a humped old tree,</span>
   <span id="f000629">that crooked out an arm to catch it.</span>
   <span id="f000630">For the way now lay where path was none,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and none might go but by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and only go by daring.</span>
   <span id="f000633">Through blackberry brakes that tried to pluck me back,</span>
   <span id="f000634">though I but strained towards fruitless growths of mountain-laurel;</span>
   <span id="f000635">up slippery steeps to barren heights,</span>
   <span id="f000636">where stood none to welcome.</span>
   <span id="f000637">Fairy land not yet,</span>
   <span id="f000638">thought I,</span>
   <span id="f000639">though the morning is here before me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">Foot-sore enough and weary,</span>
   <span id="f000641">I gained not then my journey’s end,</span>
   <span id="f000642">but came ere long to a craggy pass,</span>
   <span id="f000643">dipping towards growing regions still beyond.</span>
   <span id="f000644">A zigzag road,</span>
   <span id="f000645">half overgrown with blueberry bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000646">here turned among the cliffs.</span>
   <span id="f000647">A rent was in their ragged sides;</span>
   <span id="f000648">through it a little track branched off,</span>
   <span id="f000649">which,</span>
   <span id="f000650">upwards threading that short defile,</span>
   <span id="f000651">came breezily out above,</span>
   <span id="f000652">to where the mountain-top,</span>
   <span id="f000653">part sheltered northward,</span>
   <span id="f000654">by a taller brother,</span>
   <span id="f000655">sloped gently off a space,</span>
   <span id="f000656">ere darkly plunging;</span>
   <span id="f000657">and here,</span>
   <span id="f000658">among fantastic rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000659">reposing in a herd,</span>
   <span id="f000660">the foot-track wound,</span>
   <span id="f000661">half beaten,</span>
   <span id="f000662">up to a little,</span>
   <span id="f000663">low-storied,</span>
   <span id="f000664">grayish cottage,</span>
   <span id="f000665">capped,</span>
   <span id="f000666">nun-like,</span>
   <span id="f000667">with a peaked roof.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">On one slope,</span>
   <span id="f000669">the roof was deeply weather-stained,</span>
   <span id="f000670">and,</span>
   <span id="f000671">nigh the turfy eaves-trough,</span>
   <span id="f000672">all velvet-napped;</span>
   <span id="f000673">no doubt the snail-monks founded mossy priories there.</span>
   <span id="f000674">The other slope was newly shingled.</span>
   <span id="f000675">On the north side,</span>
   <span id="f000676">doorless and windowless,</span>
   <span id="f000677">the clap-boards,</span>
   <span id="f000678">innocent of paint,</span>
   <span id="f000679">were yet green as the north side of lichened pines or copperless hulls of Japanese junks,</span>
   <span id="f000680">becalmed.</span>
   <span id="f000681">The whole base,</span>
   <span id="f000682">like those of the neighboring rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000683">was rimmed about with shaded streaks of richest sod;</span>
   <span id="f000684">for,</span>
   <span id="f000685">with hearth-stones in fairy land,</span>
   <span id="f000686">the natural rock,</span>
   <span id="f000687">though housed,</span>
   <span id="f000688">preserves to the last,</span>
   <span id="f000689">just as in open fields,</span>
   <span id="f000690">its fertilizing charm;</span>
   <span id="f000691">only,</span>
   <span id="f000692">by necessity,</span>
   <span id="f000693">working now at a remove,</span>
   <span id="f000694">to the sward without.</span>
   <span id="f000695">So,</span>
   <span id="f000696">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000697">says Oberon,</span>
   <span id="f000698">grave authority in fairy lore.</span>
   <span id="f000699">Though setting Oberon aside,</span>
   <span id="f000700">certain it is,</span>
   <span id="f000701">that,</span>
   <span id="f000702">even in the common world,</span>
   <span id="f000703">the soil,</span>
   <span id="f000704">close up to farm-houses,</span>
   <span id="f000705">as close up to pasture rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000706">is,</span>
   <span id="f000707">even though untended,</span>
   <span id="f000708">ever richer than it is a few rods off – such gentle,</span>
   <span id="f000709">nurturing heat is radiated there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">But with this cottage,</span>
   <span id="f000711">the shaded streaks were richest in its front and about its entrance,</span>
   <span id="f000712">where the ground-sill,</span>
   <span id="f000713">and especially the doorsill had,</span>
   <span id="f000714">through long eld,</span>
   <span id="f000715">quietly settled down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">No fence was seen,</span>
   <span id="f000717">no inclosure.</span>
   <span id="f000718">Near by – ferns,</span>
   <span id="f000719">ferns,</span>
   <span id="f000720">ferns;</span>
   <span id="f000721">further – woods,</span>
   <span id="f000722">woods,</span>
   <span id="f000723">woods;</span>
   <span id="f000724">beyond – mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000725">mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000726">mountains;</span>
   <span id="f000727">then – sky,</span>
   <span id="f000728">sky,</span>
   <span id="f000729">sky.</span>
   <span id="f000730">Turned out in aerial commons,</span>
   <span id="f000731">pasture for the mountain moon.</span>
   <span id="f000732">Nature,</span>
   <span id="f000733">and but nature,</span>
   <span id="f000734">house and,</span>
   <span id="f000735">all;</span>
   <span id="f000736">even a low cross-pile of silver birch,</span>
   <span id="f000737">piled openly,</span>
   <span id="f000738">to season;</span>
   <span id="f000739">up among whose silvery sticks,</span>
   <span id="f000740">as through the fencing of some sequestered grave,</span>
   <span id="f000741">sprang vagrant raspberry bushes – willful assertors of their right of way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000742">The foot-track,</span>
   <span id="f000743">so dainty narrow,</span>
   <span id="f000744">just like a sheep-track,</span>
   <span id="f000745">led through long ferns that lodged.</span>
   <span id="f000746">Fairy land at last,</span>
   <span id="f000747">thought I;</span>
   <span id="f000748">Una and her lamb dwell here.</span>
   <span id="f000749">Truly,</span>
   <span id="f000750">a small abode – mere palanquin,</span>
   <span id="f000751">set down on the summit,</span>
   <span id="f000752">in a pass between two worlds,</span>
   <span id="f000753">participant of neither.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">A sultry hour,</span>
   <span id="f000755">and I wore a light hat,</span>
   <span id="f000756">of yellow sinnet,</span>
   <span id="f000757">with white duck trowsers – both relics of my tropic sea-going.</span>
   <span id="f000758">Clogged in the muffling ferns,</span>
   <span id="f000759">I softly stumbled,</span>
   <span id="f000760">staining the knees a sea-green.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000761">Pausing at the threshold,</span>
   <span id="f000762">or rather where threshold once had been,</span>
   <span id="f000763">I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000764">through the open door-way,</span>
   <span id="f000765">a lonely girl,</span>
   <span id="f000766">sewing at a lonely window.</span>
   <span id="f000767">A pale-cheeked girl,</span>
   <span id="f000768">and fly-specked window,</span>
   <span id="f000769">with wasps about the mended upper panes.</span>
   <span id="f000770">I spoke.</span>
   <span id="f000771">She shyly started,</span>
   <span id="f000772">like some Tahiti girl,</span>
   <span id="f000773">secreted for a sacrifice,</span>
   <span id="f000774">first catching sight,</span>
   <span id="f000775">through palms,</span>
   <span id="f000776">of Captain Cook.</span>
   <span id="f000777">Recovering,</span>
   <span id="f000778">she bade me enter;</span>
   <span id="f000779">with her apron brushed off a stool;</span>
   <span id="f000780">then silently resumed her own.</span>
   <span id="f000781">With thanks I took the stool;</span>
   <span id="f000782">but now,</span>
   <span id="f000783">for a space,</span>
   <span id="f000784">I,</span>
   <span id="f000785">too,</span>
   <span id="f000786">was mute.</span>
   <span id="f000787">This,</span>
   <span id="f000788">then,</span>
   <span id="f000789">is the fairy-mountain house,</span>
   <span id="f000790">and here,</span>
   <span id="f000791">the fairy queen sitting at her fairy window.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">I went up to it.</span>
   <span id="f000793">Downwards,</span>
   <span id="f000794">directed by the tunneled pass,</span>
   <span id="f000795">as through a leveled telescope,</span>
   <span id="f000796">I caught sight of a,</span>
   <span id="f000797">far-off,</span>
   <span id="f000798">soft,</span>
   <span id="f000799">azure world.</span>
   <span id="f000800">I hardly knew it,</span>
   <span id="f000801">though I came from it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“You must find this view very pleasant,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000803">at last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000805">sir,” tears starting in her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000806">“the first time I looked out of this window,</span>
   <span id="f000807">I said ’never,</span>
   <span id="f000808">never shall I weary of this.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">“And what wearies you of it now?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">“I don’t know,” while a tear fell;</span>
   <span id="f000811">“but it is not the view,</span>
   <span id="f000812">it is Marianna.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">Some months back,</span>
   <span id="f000814">her brother,</span>
   <span id="f000815">only seventeen,</span>
   <span id="f000816">had come hither,</span>
   <span id="f000817">a long way from the other side,</span>
   <span id="f000818">to cut wood and burn coal,</span>
   <span id="f000819">and she,</span>
   <span id="f000820">elder sister,</span>
   <span id="f000821">had accompanied,</span>
   <span id="f000822">him.</span>
   <span id="f000823">Long had they been orphans,</span>
   <span id="f000824">and now,</span>
   <span id="f000825">sole inhabitants of the sole house upon the mountain.</span>
   <span id="f000826">No guest came,</span>
   <span id="f000827">no traveler passed.</span>
   <span id="f000828">The zigzag,</span>
   <span id="f000829">perilous road was only used at seasons by the coal wagons.</span>
   <span id="f000830">The brother was absent the entire day,</span>
   <span id="f000831">sometimes the entire night.</span>
   <span id="f000832">When at evening,</span>
   <span id="f000833">fagged out,</span>
   <span id="f000834">he did come home,</span>
   <span id="f000835">he soon left his bench,</span>
   <span id="f000836">poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000837">for his bed;</span>
   <span id="f000838">just as one,</span>
   <span id="f000839">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000840">wearily quits that,</span>
   <span id="f000841">too,</span>
   <span id="f000842">for still deeper rest.</span>
   <span id="f000843">The bench,</span>
   <span id="f000844">the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000845">the grave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">Silent I stood by the fairy window,</span>
   <span id="f000847">while these things were being told.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000848">“Do you know,” said she at last,</span>
   <span id="f000849">as stealing from her story,</span>
   <span id="f000850">“do you know who lives yonder?</span>
   <span id="f000851">– I have never been down into that country – away off there,</span>
   <span id="f000852">I mean;</span>
   <span id="f000853">that house,</span>
   <span id="f000854">that marble one,” pointing far across the lower landscape;</span>
   <span id="f000855">“have you not caught it?</span>
   <span id="f000856">there,</span>
   <span id="f000857">on the long hill-side:</span>
   <span id="f000858">the field before,</span>
   <span id="f000859">the woods behind;</span>
   <span id="f000860">the white shines out against their blue;</span>
   <span id="f000861">don’t you mark it?</span>
   <span id="f000862">the only house in sight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">I looked;</span>
   <span id="f000864">and after a time,</span>
   <span id="f000865">to my surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000866">recognized,</span>
   <span id="f000867">more by its position than its aspect,</span>
   <span id="f000868">or Marianna’s description,</span>
   <span id="f000869">my own abode,</span>
   <span id="f000870">glimmering much like this mountain one from the piazza.</span>
   <span id="f000871">The mirage haze made it appear less a farm-house than King Charming’s palace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">“I have often wondered who lives there;</span>
   <span id="f000873">but it must be some happy one;</span>
   <span id="f000874">again this morning was I thinking so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000875">“Some happy one,” returned I,</span>
   <span id="f000876">starting;</span>
   <span id="f000877">“and why do you think that?</span>
   <span id="f000878">You judge some rich one lives there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000879">“Rich or not,</span>
   <span id="f000880">I never thought;</span>
   <span id="f000881">but it looks so happy,</span>
   <span id="f000882">I can’t tell how;</span>
   <span id="f000883">and it is so far away.</span>
   <span id="f000884">Sometimes I think I do but dream it is there.</span>
   <span id="f000885">You should see it in a sunset.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">“No doubt the sunset gilds it finely;</span>
   <span id="f000887">but not more than the sunrise does this house,</span>
   <span id="f000888">perhaps.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000889">“This house?</span>
   <span id="f000890">The sun is a good sun,</span>
   <span id="f000891">but it never gilds this house.</span>
   <span id="f000892">Why should it?</span>
   <span id="f000893">This old house is rotting.</span>
   <span id="f000894">That makes it so mossy.</span>
   <span id="f000895">In the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000896">the sun comes in at this old window,</span>
   <span id="f000897">to be sure – boarded up,</span>
   <span id="f000898">when first we came;</span>
   <span id="f000899">a window I can’t keep clean,</span>
   <span id="f000900">do what I may – and half burns,</span>
   <span id="f000901">and nearly blinds me at my sewing,</span>
   <span id="f000902">besides setting the flies and wasps astir – such flies and wasps as only lone mountain houses know.</span>
   <span id="f000903">See,</span>
   <span id="f000904">here is the curtain – this apron – I try to shut it out with then.</span>
   <span id="f000905">It fades it,</span>
   <span id="f000906">you see.</span>
   <span id="f000907">Sun gild this house?</span>
   <span id="f000908">not that ever Marianna saw.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000909">“Because when this roof is gilded most,</span>
   <span id="f000910">then you stay here within.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">“The hottest,</span>
   <span id="f000912">weariest hour of day,</span>
   <span id="f000913">you mean?</span>
   <span id="f000914">Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000915">the sun gilds not this roof.</span>
   <span id="f000916">It leaked so,</span>
   <span id="f000917">brother newly shingled all one side.</span>
   <span id="f000918">Did you not see it?</span>
   <span id="f000919">The north side,</span>
   <span id="f000920">where the sun strikes most on what the rain has wetted.</span>
   <span id="f000921">The sun is a good sun;</span>
   <span id="f000922">but this roof,</span>
   <span id="f000923">in first scorches,</span>
   <span id="f000924">and then rots.</span>
   <span id="f000925">An old house.</span>
   <span id="f000926">They went West,</span>
   <span id="f000927">and are long dead,</span>
   <span id="f000928">they say,</span>
   <span id="f000929">who built it.</span>
   <span id="f000930">A mountain house.</span>
   <span id="f000931">In winter no fox could den in it.</span>
   <span id="f000932">That chimney-place has been blocked up with snow,</span>
   <span id="f000933">just like a hollow stump.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">“Yours are strange fancies,</span>
   <span id="f000935">Marianna.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000936">“They but reflect the things.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">“Then I should have said,</span>
   <span id="f000938">’These are strange things,’ rather than,</span>
   <span id="f000939">’Yours are strange fancies.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000940">“As you will;” and took up her sewing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">Something in those quiet words,</span>
   <span id="f000942">or in that quiet act,</span>
   <span id="f000943">it made me mute again;</span>
   <span id="f000944">while,</span>
   <span id="f000945">noting,</span>
   <span id="f000946">through the fairy window,</span>
   <span id="f000947">a broad shadow stealing on,</span>
   <span id="f000948">as cast by some gigantic condor,</span>
   <span id="f000949">floating at brooding poise on outstretched wings,</span>
   <span id="f000950">I marked how,</span>
   <span id="f000951">by its deeper and inclusive dusk,</span>
   <span id="f000952">it wiped away into itself all lesser shades of rock or fern.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">“You watch the cloud,” said Marianna.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000954">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000955">a shadow;</span>
   <span id="f000956">a cloud’s,</span>
   <span id="f000957">no doubt – though that I cannot see.</span>
   <span id="f000958">How did you know it?</span>
   <span id="f000959">Your eyes are on your work.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000960">“It dusked my work.</span>
   <span id="f000961">There,</span>
   <span id="f000962">now the cloud is gone,</span>
   <span id="f000963">Tray comes back.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000964">“How?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000965">“The dog,</span>
   <span id="f000966">the shaggy dog.</span>
   <span id="f000967">At noon,</span>
   <span id="f000968">he steals off,</span>
   <span id="f000969">of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000970">to change his shape – returns,</span>
   <span id="f000971">and lies down awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000972">nigh the door.</span>
   <span id="f000973">Don’t you see him?</span>
   <span id="f000974">His head is turned round at you;</span>
   <span id="f000975">though,</span>
   <span id="f000976">when you came,</span>
   <span id="f000977">he looked before him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000978">“Your eyes rest but on your work;</span>
   <span id="f000979">what do you speak of?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000980">“By the window,</span>
   <span id="f000981">crossing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000982">“You mean this shaggy shadow – the nigh one?</span>
   <span id="f000983">And,</span>
   <span id="f000984">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000985">now that I mark it,</span>
   <span id="f000986">it is not unlike a large,</span>
   <span id="f000987">black Newfoundland dog.</span>
   <span id="f000988">The invading shadow gone,</span>
   <span id="f000989">the invaded one returns.</span>
   <span id="f000990">But I do not see what casts it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000991">“For that,</span>
   <span id="f000992">you must go without.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000993">“One of those grassy rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000994">no doubt.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000995">“You see his head,</span>
   <span id="f000996">his face?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000997">“The shadow’s?</span>
   <span id="f000998">You speak as if <em>you</em> saw it,</span>
   <span id="f000999">and all the time your eyes are on your work.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001000">“Tray looks at you,” still without glancing up;</span>
   <span id="f001001">“this is his hour;</span>
   <span id="f001002">I see him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001003">“Have you then,</span>
   <span id="f001004">so long sat at this mountain-window,</span>
   <span id="f001005">where but clouds and,</span>
   <span id="f001006">vapors pass,</span>
   <span id="f001007">that,</span>
   <span id="f001008">to you,</span>
   <span id="f001009">shadows are as things,</span>
   <span id="f001010">though you speak of them as of phantoms;</span>
   <span id="f001011">that,</span>
   <span id="f001012">by familiar knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f001013">working like a second sight,</span>
   <span id="f001014">you can,</span>
   <span id="f001015">without looking for them,</span>
   <span id="f001016">tell just where they are,</span>
   <span id="f001017">though,</span>
   <span id="f001018">as having mice-like feet,</span>
   <span id="f001019">they creep about,</span>
   <span id="f001020">and come and go;</span>
   <span id="f001021">that,</span>
   <span id="f001022">to you,</span>
   <span id="f001023">these lifeless shadows are as living friends,</span>
   <span id="f001024">who,</span>
   <span id="f001025">though out of sight,</span>
   <span id="f001026">are not out of mind,</span>
   <span id="f001027">even in their faces – is it so?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001028">“That way I never thought of it.</span>
   <span id="f001029">But the friendliest one,</span>
   <span id="f001030">that used to soothe my weariness so much,</span>
   <span id="f001031">coolly quivering on the ferns,</span>
   <span id="f001032">it was taken from me,</span>
   <span id="f001033">never to return,</span>
   <span id="f001034">as Tray did just now.</span>
   <span id="f001035">The shadow of a birch.</span>
   <span id="f001036">The tree was struck by lightning,</span>
   <span id="f001037">and brother cut it up.</span>
   <span id="f001038">You saw the cross-pile out-doors – the buried root lies under it;</span>
   <span id="f001039">but not the shadow.</span>
   <span id="f001040">That is flown,</span>
   <span id="f001041">and never will come back,</span>
   <span id="f001042">nor ever anywhere stir again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001043">Another cloud here stole along,</span>
   <span id="f001044">once more blotting out the dog,</span>
   <span id="f001045">and blackening all the mountain;</span>
   <span id="f001046">while the stillness was so still,</span>
   <span id="f001047">deafness might have forgot itself,</span>
   <span id="f001048">or else believed that noiseless shadow spoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001049">“Birds,</span>
   <span id="f001050">Marianna,</span>
   <span id="f001051">singing-birds,</span>
   <span id="f001052">I hear none;</span>
   <span id="f001053">I hear nothing.</span>
   <span id="f001054">Boys and bob-o-links,</span>
   <span id="f001055">do they never come a-berrying up here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001056">“Birds,</span>
   <span id="f001057">I seldom hear;</span>
   <span id="f001058">boys,</span>
   <span id="f001059">never.</span>
   <span id="f001060">The berries mostly ripe and fall – few,</span>
   <span id="f001061">but me,</span>
   <span id="f001062">the wiser.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001063">“But yellow-birds showed me the way – part way,</span>
   <span id="f001064">at least.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001065">“And then flew back.</span>
   <span id="f001066">I guess they play about the mountain-side,</span>
   <span id="f001067">but don’t make the top their home.</span>
   <span id="f001068">And no doubt you think that,</span>
   <span id="f001069">living so lonesome here,</span>
   <span id="f001070">knowing nothing,</span>
   <span id="f001071">hearing nothing – little,</span>
   <span id="f001072">at least,</span>
   <span id="f001073">but sound of thunder and the fall of trees – never reading,</span>
   <span id="f001074">seldom speaking,</span>
   <span id="f001075">yet ever wakeful,</span>
   <span id="f001076">this is what gives me my strange thoughts – for so you call them – this weariness and wakefulness together Brother,</span>
   <span id="f001077">who stands and works in open air,</span>
   <span id="f001078">would I could rest like him;</span>
   <span id="f001079">but mine is mostly but dull woman’s work – sitting,</span>
   <span id="f001080">sitting,</span>
   <span id="f001081">restless sitting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001082">“But,</span>
   <span id="f001083">do you not go walk at times?</span>
   <span id="f001084">These woods are wide.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001085">“And lonesome;</span>
   <span id="f001086">lonesome,</span>
   <span id="f001087">because so wide.</span>
   <span id="f001088">Sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f001089">’tis true,</span>
   <span id="f001090">of afternoons,</span>
   <span id="f001091">I go a little way;</span>
   <span id="f001092">but soon come back again.</span>
   <span id="f001093">Better feel lone by hearth,</span>
   <span id="f001094">than rock.</span>
   <span id="f001095">The shadows hereabouts I know – those in the woods are strangers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001096">“But the night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001097">“Just like the day.</span>
   <span id="f001098">Thinking,</span>
   <span id="f001099">thinking – a wheel I cannot stop;</span>
   <span id="f001100">pure want of sleep it is that turns it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001101">“I have heard that,</span>
   <span id="f001102">for this wakeful weariness,</span>
   <span id="f001103">to say one’s prayers,</span>
   <span id="f001104">and then lay one’s head upon a fresh hop pillow – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001105">“Look!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001106">Through the fairy window,</span>
   <span id="f001107">she pointed down the steep to a small garden patch near by – mere pot of rifled loam,</span>
   <span id="f001108">half rounded in by sheltering rocks – where,</span>
   <span id="f001109">side by side,</span>
   <span id="f001110">some feet apart,</span>
   <span id="f001111">nipped and puny,</span>
   <span id="f001112">two hop-vines climbed two poles,</span>
   <span id="f001113">and,</span>
   <span id="f001114">gaining their tip-ends,</span>
   <span id="f001115">would have then joined over in an upward clasp,</span>
   <span id="f001116">but the baffled shoots,</span>
   <span id="f001117">groping awhile in empty air,</span>
   <span id="f001118">trailed back whence they sprung.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001119">“You have tried the pillow,</span>
   <span id="f001120">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001121">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001122">“And prayer?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001123">“Prayer and pillow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001124">“Is there no other cure,</span>
   <span id="f001125">or charm?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001126">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001127">if I could but once get to yonder house,</span>
   <span id="f001128">and but look upon whoever the happy being is that lives there!</span>
   <span id="f001129">A foolish thought:</span>
   <span id="f001130">why do I think it?</span>
   <span id="f001131">Is it that I live so lonesome,</span>
   <span id="f001132">and know nothing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001133">“I,</span>
   <span id="f001134">too,</span>
   <span id="f001135">know nothing;</span>
   <span id="f001136">and,</span>
   <span id="f001137">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f001138">cannot answer;</span>
   <span id="f001139">but,</span>
   <span id="f001140">for your sake,</span>
   <span id="f001141">Marianna,</span>
   <span id="f001142">well could wish that I were that happy one of the happy house you dream you see;</span>
   <span id="f001143">for then you would behold him now,</span>
   <span id="f001144">and,</span>
   <span id="f001145">as you say,</span>
   <span id="f001146">this weariness might leave you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001147">– Enough.</span>
   <span id="f001148">Launching my yawl no more for fairy-land,</span>
   <span id="f001149">I stick to the piazza.</span>
   <span id="f001150">It is my box-royal;</span>
   <span id="f001151">and this amphitheatre,</span>
   <span id="f001152">my theatre of San Carlo.</span>
   <span id="f001153">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001154">the scenery is magical – the illusion so complete.</span>
   <span id="f001155">And Madam Meadow Lark,</span>
   <span id="f001156">my prima donna,</span>
   <span id="f001157">plays her grand engagement here;</span>
   <span id="f001158">and,</span>
   <span id="f001159">drinking in her sunrise note,</span>
   <span id="f001160">which,</span>
   <span id="f001161">Memnon-like,</span>
   <span id="f001162">seems struck from the golden window,</span>
   <span id="f001163">how far from me the weary face behind it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001164">But,</span>
   <span id="f001165">every night,</span>
   <span id="f001166">when the curtain falls,</span>
   <span id="f001167">truth comes in with darkness.</span>
   <span id="f001168">No light shows from the mountain.</span>
   <span id="f001169">To and fro I walk the piazza deck,</span>
   <span id="f001170">haunted by Marianna’s face,</span>
   <span id="f001171">and many as real a story.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

