<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Ruth Golding</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Bertie’s Christmas Eve</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Saki</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">It was Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and the family circle of Luke Steffink,</span>
   <span id="f000009">Esq.,</span>
   <span id="f000010">was aglow with the amiability and random mirth which the occasion demanded.</span>
   <span id="f000011">A long and lavish dinner had been partaken of,</span>
   <span id="f000012">waits had been round and sung carols;</span>
   <span id="f000013">the house-party had regaled itself with more caroling on its own account,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and there had been romping which,</span>
   <span id="f000015">even in a pulpit reference,</span>
   <span id="f000016">could not have been condemned as ragging.</span>
   <span id="f000017">In the midst of the general glow,</span>
   <span id="f000018">however,</span>
   <span id="f000019">there was one black unkindled cinder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">Bertie Steffink,</span>
   <span id="f000021">nephew of the aforementioned Luke,</span>
   <span id="f000022">had early in life adopted the profession of ne’er-do-weel;</span>
   <span id="f000023">his father had been something of the kind before him.</span>
   <span id="f000024">At the age of eighteen Bertie had commenced that round of visits to our Colonial possessions,</span>
   <span id="f000025">so seemly and desirable in the case of a Prince of the Blood,</span>
   <span id="f000026">so suggestive of insincerity in a young man of the middle-class.</span>
   <span id="f000027">He had gone to grow tea in Ceylon and fruit in British Columbia,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and to help sheep to grow wool in Australia.</span>
   <span id="f000029">At the age of twenty he had just returned from some similar errand in Canada,</span>
   <span id="f000030">from which it may be gathered that the trial he gave to these various experiments was of the summary drum-head nature.</span>
   <span id="f000031">Luke Steffink,</span>
   <span id="f000032">who fulfilled the troubled role of guardian and deputy-parent to Bertie,</span>
   <span id="f000033">deplored the persistent manifestation of the homing instinct on his nephew’s part,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and his solemn thanks earlier in the day for the blessing of reporting a united family had no reference to Bertie’s return.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">Arrangements had been promptly made for packing the youth off to a distant corner of Rhodesia,</span>
   <span id="f000036">whence return would be a difficult matter;</span>
   <span id="f000037">the journey to this uninviting destination was imminent,</span>
   <span id="f000038">in fact a more careful and willing traveller would have already begun to think about his packing.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Hence Bertie was in no mood to share in the festive spirit which displayed itself around him,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and resentment smouldered within him at the eager,</span>
   <span id="f000041">self-absorbed discussion of social plans for the coming months which he heard on all sides.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Beyond depressing his uncle and the family circle generally by singing “Say au revoir,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and not good-bye,” he had taken no part in the evening’s conviviality.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">Eleven o’clock had struck some half-hour ago,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and the elder Steffinks began to throw out suggestions leading up to that process which they called retiring for the night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000047">Teddie,</span>
   <span id="f000048">it’s time you were in your little bed,</span>
   <span id="f000049">you know,” said Luke Steffink to his thirteen-year-old son.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“That’s where we all ought to be,” said Mrs.&#160;Steffink.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“There wouldn’t be room,” said Bertie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">The remark was considered to border on the scandalous;</span>
   <span id="f000053">everybody ate raisins and almonds with the nervous industry of sheep feeding during threatening weather.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“In Russia,” said Horace Bordenby,</span>
   <span id="f000055">who was staying in the house as a Christmas guest,</span>
   <span id="f000056">“I’ve read that the peasants believe that if you go into a cow-house or stable at midnight on Christmas Eve you will hear the animals talk.</span>
   <span id="f000057">They’re supposed to have the gift of speech at that one moment of the year.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000059"><em>do</em> let’s <em>all</em> go down to the cow-house and listen to what they’ve got to say!” exclaimed Beryl,</span>
   <span id="f000060">to whom anything was thrilling and amusing if you did it in a troop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">Mrs.&#160;Steffink made a laughing protest,</span>
   <span id="f000062">but gave a virtual consent by saying,</span>
   <span id="f000063">“We must all wrap up well,</span>
   <span id="f000064">then.” The idea seemed a scatterbrained one to her,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and almost heathenish,</span>
   <span id="f000066">but if afforded an opportunity for “throwing the young people together,” and as such she welcomed it.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Mr.&#160;Horace Bordenby was a young man with quite substantial prospects,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and he had danced with Beryl at a local subscription ball a sufficient number of times to warrant the authorised inquiry on the part of the neighbours whether “there was anything in it.” Though Mrs.&#160;Steffink would not have put it in so many words,</span>
   <span id="f000069">she shared the idea of the Russian peasantry that on this night the beast might speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">The cow-house stood at the junction of the garden with a small paddock,</span>
   <span id="f000071">an isolated survival,</span>
   <span id="f000072">in a suburban neighbourhood;</span>
   <span id="f000073">of what had once been a small farm.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Luke Steffink was complacently proud of his cow-house and his two cows;</span>
   <span id="f000075">he felt that they gave him a stamp of solidity which no number of Wyandottes or Orpingtons could impart.</span>
   <span id="f000076">They even seemed to link him in a sort of inconsequent way with those patriarchs who derived importance from their floating capital of flocks and herbs,</span>
   <span id="f000077">he-asses and she-asses.</span>
   <span id="f000078">It had been an anxious and momentous occasion when he had had to decide definitely between “the Byre” and “the Ranch” for the naming of his villa residence.</span>
   <span id="f000079">A December midnight was hardly the moment he would have chosen for showing his farm-building to visitors,</span>
   <span id="f000080">but since it was a fine night,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and the young people were anxious for an excuse for a mild frolic,</span>
   <span id="f000082">Luke consented to chaperon the expedition.</span>
   <span id="f000083">The servants had long since gone to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000084">so the house was left in charge of Bertie,</span>
   <span id="f000085">who scornfully declined to stir out on the pretext of listening to bovine conversation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“We must go quietly,” said Luke,</span>
   <span id="f000087">as he headed the procession of giggling young folk,</span>
   <span id="f000088">brought up in the rear by the shawled and hooded figure of Mrs.&#160;Steffink;</span>
   <span id="f000089">“I’ve always laid stress on keeping this a quiet and orderly neighbourhood.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">It was a few minutes to midnight when the party reached the cow-house and made its way in by the light of Luke’s stable lantern.</span>
   <span id="f000091">For a moment every one stood in silence,</span>
   <span id="f000092">almost with a feeling of being in church.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“Daisy—the one lying down—is by a shorthorn bull out of a Guernsey cow,” announced Luke in a hushed voice,</span>
   <span id="f000094">which was in keeping with the foregoing impression.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Is she?” said Bordenby,</span>
   <span id="f000096">rather as if he had expected her to be by Rembrandt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“Myrtle is—”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Myrtle’s family history was cut short by a little scream from the women of the party.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">The cow-house door had closed noiselessly behind them and the key had turned gratingly in the lock;</span>
   <span id="f000100">then they heard Bertie’s voice pleasantly wishing them good-night and his footsteps retreating along the garden path.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">Luke Steffink strode to the window;</span>
   <span id="f000102">it was a small square opening of the old-fashioned sort,</span>
   <span id="f000103">with iron bars let into the stonework.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“Unlock the door this instant,” he shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000105">with as much air of menacing authority as a hen might assume when screaming through the bars of a coop at a marauding hawk.</span>
   <span id="f000106">In reply to his summons the hall-door closed with a defiant bang.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">A neighbouring clock struck the hour of midnight.</span>
   <span id="f000108">If the cows had received the gift of human speech at that moment they would not have been able to make themselves heard.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Seven or eight other voices were engaged in describing Bertie’s present conduct and his general character at a high pressure of excitement and indignation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">In the course of half an hour or so everything that it was permissible to say about Bertie had been said some dozens of times,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and other topics began to come to the front—the extreme mustiness of the cow-house,</span>
   <span id="f000112">the possibility of it catching fire,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and the probability of it being a Rowton House for the vagrant rats of the neighbourhood.</span>
   <span id="f000114">And still no sign of deliverance came to the unwilling vigil-keepers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">Towards one o’clock the sound of rather boisterous and undisciplined carol-singing approached rapidly,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and came to a sudden anchorage,</span>
   <span id="f000117">apparently just outside the garden-gate.</span>
   <span id="f000118">A motor-load of youthful “bloods,” in a high state of conviviality,</span>
   <span id="f000119">had made a temporary halt for repairs;</span>
   <span id="f000120">the stoppage,</span>
   <span id="f000121">however,</span>
   <span id="f000122">did not extend to the vocal efforts of the party,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and the watchers in the cow-shed were treated to a highly unauthorised rendering of “Good King Wenceslas,” in which the adjective “good” appeared to be very carelessly applied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">The noise had the effect of bringing Bertie out into the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000125">but he utterly ignored the pale,</span>
   <span id="f000126">angry faces peering out at the cow-house window,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and concentrated his attention on the revellers outside the gate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Wassail,</span>
   <span id="f000129">you chaps!” he shouted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“Wassail,</span>
   <span id="f000131">old sport!” they shouted back;</span>
   <span id="f000132">“we’d jolly well drink y’r health,</span>
   <span id="f000133">only we’ve nothing to drink it in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">“Come and wassail inside,” said Bertie hospitably;</span>
   <span id="f000135">“I’m all alone,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and there’s heap’s of ‘wet’.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">They were total strangers,</span>
   <span id="f000138">but his touch of kindness made them instantly his kin.</span>
   <span id="f000139">In another moment the unauthorised version of King Wenceslas,</span>
   <span id="f000140">which,</span>
   <span id="f000141">like many other scandals,</span>
   <span id="f000142">grew worse on repetition,</span>
   <span id="f000143">went echoing up the garden path;</span>
   <span id="f000144">two of the revellers gave an impromptu performance on the way by executing the staircase waltz up the terraces of what Luke Steffink,</span>
   <span id="f000145">hitherto with some justification,</span>
   <span id="f000146">called his rock-garden.</span>
   <span id="f000147">The rock part of it was still there when the waltz had been accorded its third encore.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Luke,</span>
   <span id="f000149">more than ever like a cooped hen behind the cow-house bars,</span>
   <span id="f000150">was in a position to realise the feelings of concert-goers unable to countermand the call for an encore which they neither desire or deserve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">The hall door closed with a bang on Bertie’s guests,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and the sounds of merriment became faint and muffled to the weary watchers at the other end of the garden.</span>
   <span id="f000153">Presently two ominous pops,</span>
   <span id="f000154">in quick succession,</span>
   <span id="f000155">made themselves distinctly heard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“They’ve got at the champagne!” exclaimed Mrs.&#160;Steffink.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Perhaps it’s the sparkling Moselle,” said Luke hopefully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">Three or four more pops were heard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“The champagne <em>and</em> the sparkling Moselle,” said Mrs.&#160;Steffink.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">Luke uncorked an expletive which,</span>
   <span id="f000161">like brandy in a temperance household,</span>
   <span id="f000162">was only used on rare emergencies.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Mr.&#160;Horace Bordenby had been making use of similar expressions under his breath for a considerable time past.</span>
   <span id="f000164">The experiment of “throwing the young people together” had been prolonged beyond a point when it was likely to produce any romantic result.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">Some forty minutes later the hall door opened and disgorged a crowd that had thrown off any restraint of shyness that might have influenced its earlier actions.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Its vocal efforts in the direction of carol singing were now supplemented by instrumental music;</span>
   <span id="f000167">a Christmas-tree that had been prepared for the children of the gardener and other household retainers had yielded a rich spoil of tin trumpets,</span>
   <span id="f000168">rattles,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and drums.</span>
   <span id="f000170">The life-story of King Wenceslas had been dropped,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Luke was thankful to notice,</span>
   <span id="f000172">but it was intensely irritating for the chilled prisoners in the cow-house to be told that it was a hot time in the old town to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000173">together with some accurate but entirely superfluous information as to the imminence of Christmas morning.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Judging by the protests which began to be shouted from the upper windows of neighbouring houses the sentiments prevailing in the cow-house were heartily echoed in other quarters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">The revellers found their car,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and,</span>
   <span id="f000177">what was more remarkable,</span>
   <span id="f000178">managed to drive off in it,</span>
   <span id="f000179">with a parting fanfare of tin trumpets.</span>
   <span id="f000180">The lively beat of a drum disclosed the fact that the master of the revels remained on the scene.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“Bertie!” came in an angry,</span>
   <span id="f000182">imploring chorus of shouts and screams from the cow-house window.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">“Hullo,” cried the owner of the name,</span>
   <span id="f000184">turning his rather errant steps in the direction of the summons;</span>
   <span id="f000185">“are you people still there?</span>
   <span id="f000186">Must have heard everything cows got to say by this time.</span>
   <span id="f000187">If you haven’t,</span>
   <span id="f000188">no use waiting.</span>
   <span id="f000189">After all,</span>
   <span id="f000190">it’s a Russian legend,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and Russian Chrismush Eve not due for ’nother fortnight.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Better come out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">After one or two ineffectual attempts he managed to pitch the key of the cow-house door in through the window.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000195">lifting his voice in the strains of “I’m afraid to go home in the dark,” with a lusty drum accompaniment,</span>
   <span id="f000196">he led the way back to the house.</span>
   <span id="f000197">The hurried procession of the released that followed in his steps came in for a good deal of the adverse comment that his exuberant display had evoked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">It was the happiest Christmas Eve he had ever spent.</span>
   <span id="f000199">To quote his own words,</span>
   <span id="f000200">he had a rotten Christmas.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

