<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This LibriVox recording is in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />John Greenman</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000002">A Cure For The Blues</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000003">by<br />Mark Twain</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000004">By courtesy of Mr.&#160;Cable I came into possession of a singular book eight or ten years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000005">It is likely that mine is now the only copy in existence.</span>
   <span id="f000006">Its title-page,</span>
   <span id="f000007">unabbreviated,</span>
   <span id="f000008">reads as follows:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000009">“The Enemy Conquered;</span>
   <span id="f000010">or,</span>
   <span id="f000011">Love Triumphant.</span>
   <span id="f000012">By G.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Ragsdale McClintock,</span>
   <span id="f000014">(The name here given is a substitute for the one actually attached to the pamphlet.)</span>
   <span id="f000015">author of ’An Address,’ etc.,</span>
   <span id="f000016">delivered at Sunflower Hill,</span>
   <span id="f000017">South Carolina,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and member of the Yale Law School.</span>
   <span id="f000019">New Haven:</span>
   <span id="f000020">published by T.</span>
   <span id="f000021">H.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Pease,</span>
   <span id="f000023">83 Chapel Street,</span>
   <span id="f000024">1845.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000025">No one can take up this book and lay it down again unread.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Whoever reads one line of it is caught,</span>
   <span id="f000027">is chained;</span>
   <span id="f000028">he has become the contented slave of its fascinations;</span>
   <span id="f000029">and he will read and read,</span>
   <span id="f000030">devour and devour,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and will not let it go out of his hand till it is finished to the last line,</span>
   <span id="f000032">though the house be on fire over his head.</span>
   <span id="f000033">And after a first reading he will not throw it aside,</span>
   <span id="f000034">but will keep it by him,</span>
   <span id="f000035">with his Shakespeare and his Homer,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and will take it up many and many a time,</span>
   <span id="f000037">when the world is dark and his spirits are low,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and be straightway cheered and refreshed.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Yet this work has been allowed to lie wholly neglected,</span>
   <span id="f000040">unmentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and apparently unregretted,</span>
   <span id="f000042">for nearly half a century.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">The reader must not imagine that he is to find in it wisdom,</span>
   <span id="f000044">brilliancy,</span>
   <span id="f000045">fertility of invention,</span>
   <span id="f000046">ingenuity of construction,</span>
   <span id="f000047">excellence of form,</span>
   <span id="f000048">purity of style,</span>
   <span id="f000049">perfection of imagery,</span>
   <span id="f000050">truth to nature,</span>
   <span id="f000051">clearness of statement,</span>
   <span id="f000052">humanly possible situations,</span>
   <span id="f000053">humanly possible people,</span>
   <span id="f000054">fluent narrative,</span>
   <span id="f000055">connected sequence of events – or philosophy,</span>
   <span id="f000056">or logic,</span>
   <span id="f000057">or sense.</span>
   <span id="f000058">No;</span>
   <span id="f000059">the rich,</span>
   <span id="f000060">deep,</span>
   <span id="f000061">beguiling charm of the book lies in the total and miraculous ABSENCE from it of all these qualities – a charm which is completed and perfected by the evident fact that the author,</span>
   <span id="f000062">whose naive innocence easily and surely wins our regard,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and almost our worship,</span>
   <span id="f000064">does not know that they are absent,</span>
   <span id="f000065">does not even suspect that they are absent.</span>
   <span id="f000066">When read by the light of these helps to an understanding of the situation,</span>
   <span id="f000067">the book is delicious – profoundly and satisfyingly delicious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">I call it a book because the author calls it a book,</span>
   <span id="f000069">I call it a work because he calls it a work;</span>
   <span id="f000070">but,</span>
   <span id="f000071">in truth,</span>
   <span id="f000072">it is merely a duodecimo pamphlet of thirty-one pages.</span>
   <span id="f000073">It was written for fame and money,</span>
   <span id="f000074">as the author very frankly – yes,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and very hopefully,</span>
   <span id="f000076">too,</span>
   <span id="f000077">poor fellow – says in his preface.</span>
   <span id="f000078">The money never came – no penny of it ever came;</span>
   <span id="f000079">and how long,</span>
   <span id="f000080">how pathetically long,</span>
   <span id="f000081">the fame has been deferred – forty-seven years!</span>
   <span id="f000082">He was young then,</span>
   <span id="f000083">it would have been so much to him then;</span>
   <span id="f000084">but will he care for it now?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">As time is measured in America,</span>
   <span id="f000086">McClintock’s epoch is antiquity.</span>
   <span id="f000087">In his long-vanished day the Southern author had a passion for “eloquence”;</span>
   <span id="f000088">it was his pet,</span>
   <span id="f000089">his darling.</span>
   <span id="f000090">He would be eloquent,</span>
   <span id="f000091">or perish.</span>
   <span id="f000092">And he recognized only one kind of eloquence – the lurid,</span>
   <span id="f000093">the tempestuous,</span>
   <span id="f000094">the volcanic.</span>
   <span id="f000095">He liked words – big words,</span>
   <span id="f000096">fine words,</span>
   <span id="f000097">grand words,</span>
   <span id="f000098">rumbling,</span>
   <span id="f000099">thundering,</span>
   <span id="f000100">reverberating words;</span>
   <span id="f000101">with sense attaching if it could be got in without marring the sound,</span>
   <span id="f000102">but not otherwise.</span>
   <span id="f000103">He loved to stand up before a dazed world,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and pour forth flame and smoke and lava and pumice-stone into the skies,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and work his subterranean thunders,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and shake himself with earthquakes,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and stench himself with sulphur fumes.</span>
   <span id="f000108">If he consumed his own fields and vineyards,</span>
   <span id="f000109">that was a pity,</span>
   <span id="f000110">yes;</span>
   <span id="f000111">but he would have his eruption at any cost.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Mr.&#160;McClintock’s eloquence – and he is always eloquent,</span>
   <span id="f000113">his crater is always spouting – is of the pattern common to his day,</span>
   <span id="f000114">but he departs from the custom of the time in one respect:</span>
   <span id="f000115">his brethren allowed sense to intrude when it did not mar the sound,</span>
   <span id="f000116">but he does not allow it to intrude at all.</span>
   <span id="f000117">For example,</span>
   <span id="f000118">consider this figure,</span>
   <span id="f000119">which he used in the village “Address” referred to with such candid complacency in the title-page above quoted – “like the topmost topaz of an ancient tower.” Please read it again;</span>
   <span id="f000120">contemplate it;</span>
   <span id="f000121">measure it;</span>
   <span id="f000122">walk around it;</span>
   <span id="f000123">climb up it;</span>
   <span id="f000124">try to get at an approximate realization of the size of it.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Is the fellow to that to be found in literature,</span>
   <span id="f000126">ancient or modern,</span>
   <span id="f000127">foreign or domestic,</span>
   <span id="f000128">living or dead,</span>
   <span id="f000129">drunk or sober?</span>
   <span id="f000130">One notices how fine and grand it sounds.</span>
   <span id="f000131">We know that if it was loftily uttered,</span>
   <span id="f000132">it got a noble burst of applause from the villagers;</span>
   <span id="f000133">yet there isn’t a ray of sense in it,</span>
   <span id="f000134">or meaning to it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">McClintock finished his education at Yale in 1843,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and came to Hartford on a visit that same year.</span>
   <span id="f000137">I have talked with men who at that time talked with him,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and felt of him,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and knew he was real.</span>
   <span id="f000140">One needs to remember that fact and to keep fast hold of it;</span>
   <span id="f000141">it is the only way to keep McClintock’s book from undermining one’s faith in McClintock’s actuality.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">As to the book.</span>
   <span id="f000143">The first four pages are devoted to an inflamed eulogy of Woman – simply woman in general,</span>
   <span id="f000144">or perhaps as an institution – wherein,</span>
   <span id="f000145">among other compliments to her details,</span>
   <span id="f000146">he pays a unique one to her voice.</span>
   <span id="f000147">He says it “fills the breast with fond alarms,</span>
   <span id="f000148">echoed by every rill.” It sounds well enough,</span>
   <span id="f000149">but it is not true.</span>
   <span id="f000150">After the eulogy he takes up his real work and the novel begins.</span>
   <span id="f000151">It begins in the woods,</span>
   <span id="f000152">near the village of Sunflower Hill.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000153">Brightening clouds seemed to rise from the mist of the fair Chattahoochee,</span>
   <span id="f000154">to spread their beauty over the thick forest,</span>
   <span id="f000155">to guide the hero whose bosom beats with aspirations to conquer the enemy that would tarnish his name,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and to win back the admiration of his long-tried friend.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000157">It seems a general remark,</span>
   <span id="f000158">but it is not general;</span>
   <span id="f000159">the hero mentioned is the to-be hero of the book;</span>
   <span id="f000160">and in this abrupt fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and without name or description,</span>
   <span id="f000162">he is shoveled into the tale.</span>
   <span id="f000163">“With aspirations to conquer the enemy that would tarnish his name” is merely a phrase flung in for the sake of the sound – let it not mislead the reader.</span>
   <span id="f000164">No one is trying to tarnish this person;</span>
   <span id="f000165">no one has thought of it.</span>
   <span id="f000166">The rest of the sentence is also merely a phrase;</span>
   <span id="f000167">the man has no friend as yet,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and of course has had no chance to try him,</span>
   <span id="f000169">or win back his admiration,</span>
   <span id="f000170">or disturb him in any other way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">The hero climbs up over “Sawney’s Mountain,” and down the other side,</span>
   <span id="f000172">making for an old Indian “castle” – which becomes “the red man’s hut” in the next sentence;</span>
   <span id="f000173">and when he gets there at last,</span>
   <span id="f000174">he “surveys with wonder and astonishment” the invisible structure,</span>
   <span id="f000175">“which time has buried in the dust,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and thought to himself his happiness was not yet complete.” One doesn’t know why it wasn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000177">nor how near it came to being complete,</span>
   <span id="f000178">nor what was still wanting to round it up and make it so.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Maybe it was the Indian;</span>
   <span id="f000180">but the book does not say.</span>
   <span id="f000181">At this point we have an episode:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000182">Beside the shore of the brook sat a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000183">about eighteen or twenty,</span>
   <span id="f000184">who seemed to be reading some favorite book,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and who had a remarkably noble countenance – eyes which betrayed more than a common mind.</span>
   <span id="f000186">This of course made the youth a welcome guest,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and gained him friends in whatever condition of his life he might be placed.</span>
   <span id="f000188">The traveler observed that he was a well-built figure which showed strength and grace in every movement.</span>
   <span id="f000189">He accordingly addressed him in quite a gentlemanly manner,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and inquired of him the way to the village.</span>
   <span id="f000191">After he had received the desired information,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and was about taking his leave,</span>
   <span id="f000193">the youth said,</span>
   <span id="f000194">“Are you not Major Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000195">the great musician</span>
   <span id="f000196">(Further on it will be seen that he is a country expert on the fiddle,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and has a three-township fame)</span>
   <span id="f000198">– the champion of a noble cause – the modern Achilles,</span>
   <span id="f000199">who gained so many victories in the Florida War?” “I bear that name,” said the Major,</span>
   <span id="f000200">“and those titles,</span>
   <span id="f000201">trusting at the same time that the ministers of grace will carry me triumphantly through all my laudable undertakings,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and if,” continued the Major,</span>
   <span id="f000203">“you,</span>
   <span id="f000204">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000205">are the patronizer of noble deeds,</span>
   <span id="f000206">I should like to make you my confidant and learn your address.” The youth looked somewhat amazed,</span>
   <span id="f000207">bowed low,</span>
   <span id="f000208">mused for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and began:</span>
   <span id="f000210">“My name is Roswell.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I have been recently admitted to the bar,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and can only give a faint outline of my future success in that honorable profession;</span>
   <span id="f000213">but I trust,</span>
   <span id="f000214">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000215">like the Eagle,</span>
   <span id="f000216">I shall look down from the lofty rocks upon the dwellings of man,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and shall ever be ready to give you any assistance in my official capacity,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and whatever this muscular arm of mine can do,</span>
   <span id="f000219">whenever it shall be called from its buried GREATNESS.” The Major grasped him by the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and exclaimed:</span>
   <span id="f000221">“O!</span>
   <span id="f000222">thou exalted spirit of inspiration – thou flame of burning prosperity,</span>
   <span id="f000223">may the Heaven-directed blaze be the glare of thy soul,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and battle down every rampart that seems to impede your progress!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000225">There is a strange sort of originality about McClintock;</span>
   <span id="f000226">he imitates other people’s styles,</span>
   <span id="f000227">but nobody can imitate his,</span>
   <span id="f000228">not even an idiot.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Other people can be windy,</span>
   <span id="f000230">but McClintock blows a gale;</span>
   <span id="f000231">other people can blubber sentiment,</span>
   <span id="f000232">but McClintock spews it;</span>
   <span id="f000233">other people can mishandle metaphors,</span>
   <span id="f000234">but only McClintock knows how to make a business of it.</span>
   <span id="f000235">McClintock is always McClintock,</span>
   <span id="f000236">he is always consistent,</span>
   <span id="f000237">his style is always his own style.</span>
   <span id="f000238">He does not make the mistake of being relevant on one page and irrelevant on another;</span>
   <span id="f000239">he is irrelevant on all of them.</span>
   <span id="f000240">He does not make the mistake of being lucid in one place and obscure in another;</span>
   <span id="f000241">he is obscure all the time.</span>
   <span id="f000242">He does not make the mistake of slipping in a name here and there that is out of character with his work;</span>
   <span id="f000243">he always uses names that exactly and fantastically fit his lunatics.</span>
   <span id="f000244">In the matter of undeviating consistency he stands alone in authorship.</span>
   <span id="f000245">It is this that makes his style unique,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and entitles it to a name of its own – McClintockian.</span>
   <span id="f000247">It is this that protects it from being mistaken for anybody else’s.</span>
   <span id="f000248">Uncredited quotations from other writers often leave a reader in doubt as to their authorship,</span>
   <span id="f000249">but McClintock is safe from that accident;</span>
   <span id="f000250">an uncredited quotation from him would always be recognizable.</span>
   <span id="f000251">When a boy nineteen years old,</span>
   <span id="f000252">who had just been admitted to the bar,</span>
   <span id="f000253">says,</span>
   <span id="f000254">“I trust,</span>
   <span id="f000255">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000256">like the Eagle,</span>
   <span id="f000257">I shall look down from lofty rocks upon the dwellings of man,” we know who is speaking through that boy;</span>
   <span id="f000258">we should recognize that note anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000259">There be myriads of instruments in this world’s literary orchestra,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and a multitudinous confusion of sounds that they make,</span>
   <span id="f000261">wherein fiddles are drowned,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and guitars smothered,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and one sort of drum mistaken for another sort;</span>
   <span id="f000264">but whensoever the brazen note of the McClintockian trombone breaks through that fog of music,</span>
   <span id="f000265">that note is recognizable,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and about it there can be no blur of doubt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">The novel now arrives at the point where the Major goes home to see his father.</span>
   <span id="f000268">When McClintock wrote this interview he probably believed it was pathetic.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000269">The road which led to the town presented many attractions Elfonzo had bid farewell to the youth of deep feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and was now wending his way to the dreaming spot of his fondness.</span>
   <span id="f000271">The south winds whistled through the woods,</span>
   <span id="f000272">as the waters dashed against the banks,</span>
   <span id="f000273">as rapid fire in the pent furnace roars.</span>
   <span id="f000274">This brought him to remember while alone,</span>
   <span id="f000275">that he quietly left behind the hospitality of a father’s house,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and gladly entered the world,</span>
   <span id="f000277">with higher hopes than are often realized.</span>
   <span id="f000278">But as he journeyed onward,</span>
   <span id="f000279">he was mindful of the advice of his father,</span>
   <span id="f000280">who had often looked sadly on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000281">when tears of cruelly deceived hope moistened his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Elfonzo had been somewhat a dutiful son;</span>
   <span id="f000283">yet fond of the amusements of life – had been in distant lands – had enjoyed the pleasure of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and had frequently returned to the scenes of his boyhood,</span>
   <span id="f000285">almost destitute of many of the comforts of life.</span>
   <span id="f000286">In this condition,</span>
   <span id="f000287">he would frequently say to his father,</span>
   <span id="f000288">“Have I offended you,</span>
   <span id="f000289">that you look upon me as a stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and frown upon me with stinging looks?</span>
   <span id="f000291">Will you not favor me with the sound of your voice?</span>
   <span id="f000292">If I have trampled upon your veneration,</span>
   <span id="f000293">or have spread a humid veil of darkness around your expectations,</span>
   <span id="f000294">send me back into the world,</span>
   <span id="f000295">where no heart beats for me – where the foot of man had never yet trod;</span>
   <span id="f000296">but give me at least one kind word – allow me to come into the presence sometimes of thy winter-worn locks.” “Forbid it,</span>
   <span id="f000297">Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000298">that I should be angry with thee,” answered the father,</span>
   <span id="f000299">“my son,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and yet I send thee back to the children of the world – to the cold charity of the combat,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and to a land of victory.</span>
   <span id="f000302">I read another destiny in thy countenance – I learn thy inclinations from the flame that has already kindled in my soul a strange sensation.</span>
   <span id="f000303">It will seek thee,</span>
   <span id="f000304">my dear ELFONZO,</span>
   <span id="f000305">it will find thee – thou canst not escape that lighted torch,</span>
   <span id="f000306">which shall blot out from the remembrance of men a long train of prophecies which they have foretold against thee.</span>
   <span id="f000307">I once thought not so.</span>
   <span id="f000308">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000309">I was blind;</span>
   <span id="f000310">but now the path of life is plain before me,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and my sight is clear;</span>
   <span id="f000312">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000313">Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000314">return to thy worldly occupation – take again in thy hand that chord of sweet sounds – struggle with the civilized world and with your own heart;</span>
   <span id="f000315">fly swiftly to the enchanted ground – let the night-OWL send forth its screams from the stubborn oak – let the sea sport upon the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and the stars sing together;</span>
   <span id="f000317">but learn of these,</span>
   <span id="f000318">Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000319">thy doom,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and thy hiding-place.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Our most innocent as well as our most lawful DESIRES must often be denied us,</span>
   <span id="f000322">that we may learn to sacrifice them to a Higher will.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">Remembering such admonitions with gratitude,</span>
   <span id="f000324">Elfonzo was immediately urged by the recollection of his father’s family to keep moving.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000325">McClintock has a fine gift in the matter of surprises;</span>
   <span id="f000326">but as a rule they are not pleasant ones,</span>
   <span id="f000327">they jar upon the feelings.</span>
   <span id="f000328">His closing sentence in the last quotation is of that sort.</span>
   <span id="f000329">It brings one down out of the tinted clouds in too sudden and collapsed a fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000330">It incenses one against the author for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000331">It makes the reader want to take him by this winter-worn locks,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and trample on his veneration,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and deliver him over to the cold charity of combat,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and blot him out with his own lighted torch.</span>
   <span id="f000335">But the feeling does not last.</span>
   <span id="f000336">The master takes again in his hand that concord of sweet sounds of his,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and one is reconciled,</span>
   <span id="f000338">pacified.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000339">His steps became quicker and quicker – he hastened through the PINY woods,</span>
   <span id="f000340">dark as the forest was,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and with joy he very soon reached the little village of repose,</span>
   <span id="f000342">in whose bosom rested the boldest chivalry.</span>
   <span id="f000343">His close attention to every important object – his modest questions about whatever was new to him – his reverence for wise old age,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and his ardent desire to learn many of the fine arts,</span>
   <span id="f000345">soon brought him into respectable notice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">One mild winter day,</span>
   <span id="f000347">as he walked along the streets toward the Academy,</span>
   <span id="f000348">which stood upon a small eminence,</span>
   <span id="f000349">surrounded by native growth – some venerable in its appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000350">others young and prosperous – all seemed inviting,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and seemed to be the very place for learning as well as for genius to spend its research beneath its spreading shades.</span>
   <span id="f000352">He entered its classic walls in the usual mode of southern manners.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000353">The artfulness of this man!</span>
   <span id="f000354">None knows so well as he how to pique the curiosity of the reader – and how to disappoint it.</span>
   <span id="f000355">He raises the hope,</span>
   <span id="f000356">here,</span>
   <span id="f000357">that he is going to tell all about how one enters a classic wall in the usual mode of Southern manners;</span>
   <span id="f000358">but does he?</span>
   <span id="f000359">No;</span>
   <span id="f000360">he smiles in his sleeve,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and turns aside to other matters.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000362">The principal of the Institution begged him to be seated and listen to the recitations that were going on.</span>
   <span id="f000363">He accordingly obeyed the request,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and seemed to be much pleased.</span>
   <span id="f000365">After the school was dismissed,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and the young hearts regained their freedom,</span>
   <span id="f000367">with the songs of the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000368">laughing at the anticipated pleasures of a happy home,</span>
   <span id="f000369">while others tittered at the actions of the past day,</span>
   <span id="f000370">he addressed the teacher in a tone that indicated a resolution – with an undaunted mind.</span>
   <span id="f000371">He said he had determined to become a student,</span>
   <span id="f000372">if he could meet with his approbation.</span>
   <span id="f000373">“Sir,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000374">“I have spent much time in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000375">I have traveled among the uncivilized inhabitants of America.</span>
   <span id="f000376">I have met with friends,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and combated with foes;</span>
   <span id="f000378">but none of these gratify my ambition,</span>
   <span id="f000379">or decide what is to be my destiny.</span>
   <span id="f000380">I see the learned world have an influence with the voice of the people themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000381">The despoilers of the remotest kingdoms of the earth refer their differences to this class of persons.</span>
   <span id="f000382">This the illiterate and inexperienced little dream of;</span>
   <span id="f000383">and now if you will receive me as I am,</span>
   <span id="f000384">with these deficiencies – with all my misguided opinions,</span>
   <span id="f000385">I will give you my honor,</span>
   <span id="f000386">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000387">that I will never disgrace the Institution,</span>
   <span id="f000388">or those who have placed you in this honorable station.” The instructor,</span>
   <span id="f000389">who had met with many disappointments,</span>
   <span id="f000390">knew how to feel for a stranger who had been thus turned upon the charities of an unfeeling community.</span>
   <span id="f000391">He looked at him earnestly,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000393">“Be of good cheer – look forward,</span>
   <span id="f000394">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000395">to the high destination you may attain.</span>
   <span id="f000396">Remember,</span>
   <span id="f000397">the more elevated the mark at which you aim,</span>
   <span id="f000398">the more sure,</span>
   <span id="f000399">the more glorious,</span>
   <span id="f000400">the more magnificent the prize.” From wonder to wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000401">his encouragement led the impatient listener.</span>
   <span id="f000402">A strange nature bloomed before him – giant streams promised him success – gardens of hidden treasures opened to his view.</span>
   <span id="f000403">All this,</span>
   <span id="f000404">so vividly described,</span>
   <span id="f000405">seemed to gain a new witchery from his glowing fancy.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000406">It seems to me that this situation is new in romance.</span>
   <span id="f000407">I feel sure it has not been attempted before.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Military celebrities have been disguised and set at lowly occupations for dramatic effect,</span>
   <span id="f000409">but I think McClintock is the first to send one of them to school.</span>
   <span id="f000410">Thus,</span>
   <span id="f000411">in this book,</span>
   <span id="f000412">you pass from wonder to wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000413">through gardens of hidden treasure,</span>
   <span id="f000414">where giant streams bloom before you,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and behind you,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and all around,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and you feel as happy,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and groggy,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and satisfied with your quart of mixed metaphor aboard as you would if it had been mixed in a sample-room and delivered from a jug.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000420">Now we come upon some more McClintockian surprise – a sweetheart who is sprung upon us without any preparation,</span>
   <span id="f000421">along with a name for her which is even a little more of a surprise than she herself is.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000422">In 1842 he entered the class,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and made rapid progress in the English and Latin departments.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000425">he continued advancing with such rapidity that he was like to become the first in his class,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and made such unexpected progress,</span>
   <span id="f000427">and was so studious,</span>
   <span id="f000428">that he had almost forgotten the pictured saint of his affections.</span>
   <span id="f000429">The fresh wreaths of the pine and cypress had waited anxiously to drop once more the dews of Heaven upon the heads of those who had so often poured forth the tender emotions of their souls under its boughs.</span>
   <span id="f000430">He was aware of the pleasure that he had seen there.</span>
   <span id="f000431">So one evening,</span>
   <span id="f000432">as he was returning from his reading,</span>
   <span id="f000433">he concluded he would pay a visit to this enchanting spot.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Little did he think of witnessing a shadow of his former happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000435">though no doubt he wished it might be so.</span>
   <span id="f000436">He continued sauntering by the roadside,</span>
   <span id="f000437">meditating on the past.</span>
   <span id="f000438">The nearer he approached the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000439">the more anxious he became.</span>
   <span id="f000440">At that moment a tall female figure flitted across his path,</span>
   <span id="f000441">with a bunch of roses in her hand;</span>
   <span id="f000442">her countenance showed uncommon vivacity,</span>
   <span id="f000443">with a resolute spirit;</span>
   <span id="f000444">her ivory teeth already appeared as she smiled beautifully,</span>
   <span id="f000445">promenading – while her ringlets of hair dangled unconsciously around her snowy neck.</span>
   <span id="f000446">Nothing was wanting to complete her beauty.</span>
   <span id="f000447">The tinge of the rose was in full bloom upon her cheek;</span>
   <span id="f000448">the charms of sensibility and tenderness were always her associates.</span>
   <span id="f000449">In Ambulinia’s bosom dwelt a noble soul – one that never faded – one that never was conquered.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000450">Ambulinia!</span>
   <span id="f000451">It can hardly be matched in fiction.</span>
   <span id="f000452">The full name is Ambulinia Valeer.</span>
   <span id="f000453">Marriage will presently round it out and perfect it.</span>
   <span id="f000454">Then it will be Mrs.&#160;Ambulinia Valeer Elfonzo.</span>
   <span id="f000455">It takes the chromo.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000456">Her heart yielded to no feeling but the love of Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000457">on whom she gazed with intense delight,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and to whom she felt herself more closely bound,</span>
   <span id="f000459">because he sought the hand of no other.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Elfonzo was roused from his apparent reverie.</span>
   <span id="f000461">His books no longer were his inseparable companions – his thoughts arrayed themselves to encourage him to the field of victory.</span>
   <span id="f000462">He endeavored to speak to his supposed Ambulinia,</span>
   <span id="f000463">but his speech appeared not in words.</span>
   <span id="f000464">No,</span>
   <span id="f000465">his effort was a stream of fire,</span>
   <span id="f000466">that kindled his soul into a flame of admiration,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and carried his senses away captive.</span>
   <span id="f000468">Ambulinia had disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000469">to make him more mindful of his duty.</span>
   <span id="f000470">As she walked speedily away through the piny woods,</span>
   <span id="f000471">she calmly echoed:</span>
   <span id="f000472">“O!</span>
   <span id="f000473">Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000474">thou wilt now look from thy sunbeams.</span>
   <span id="f000475">Thou shalt now walk in a new path – perhaps thy way leads through darkness;</span>
   <span id="f000476">but fear not,</span>
   <span id="f000477">the stars foretell happiness.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000478">To McClintock that jingling jumble of fine words meant something,</span>
   <span id="f000479">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000480">or seemed to mean something;</span>
   <span id="f000481">but it is useless for us to try to divine what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000482">Ambulinia comes – we don’t know whence nor why;</span>
   <span id="f000483">she mysteriously intimates – we don’t know what;</span>
   <span id="f000484">and then she goes echoing away – we don’t know whither;</span>
   <span id="f000485">and down comes the curtain.</span>
   <span id="f000486">McClintock’s art is subtle;</span>
   <span id="f000487">McClintock’s art is deep.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000488">Not many days afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000489">as surrounded by fragrant flowers she sat one evening at twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000490">to enjoy the cool breeze that whispered notes of melody along the distant groves,</span>
   <span id="f000491">the little birds perched on every side,</span>
   <span id="f000492">as if to watch the movements of their new visitor.</span>
   <span id="f000493">The bells were tolling,</span>
   <span id="f000494">when Elfonzo silently stole along by the wild wood flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000495">holding in his hand his favorite instrument of music – his eye continually searching for Ambulinia,</span>
   <span id="f000496">who hardly seemed to perceive him,</span>
   <span id="f000497">as she played carelessly with the songsters that hopped from branch to branch.</span>
   <span id="f000498">Nothing could be more striking than the difference between the two.</span>
   <span id="f000499">Nature seemed to have given the more tender soul to Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and the stronger and more courageous to Ambulinia.</span>
   <span id="f000501">A deep feeling spoke from the eyes of Elfonzo – such a feeling as can only be expressed by those who are blessed as admirers,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and by those who are able to return the same with sincerity of heart.</span>
   <span id="f000503">He was a few years older than Ambulinia:</span>
   <span id="f000504">she had turned a little into her seventeenth.</span>
   <span id="f000505">He had almost grown up in the Cherokee country,</span>
   <span id="f000506">with the same equal proportions as one of the natives.</span>
   <span id="f000507">But little intimacy had existed between them until the year forty-one – because the youth felt that the character of such a lovely girl was too exalted to inspire any other feeling than that of quiet reverence.</span>
   <span id="f000508">But as lovers will not always be insulted,</span>
   <span id="f000509">at all times and under all circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000510">by the frowns and cold looks of crabbed old age,</span>
   <span id="f000511">which should continually reflect dignity upon those around,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and treat the unfortunate as well as the fortunate with a graceful mien,</span>
   <span id="f000513">he continued to use diligence and perseverance.</span>
   <span id="f000514">All this lighted a spark in his heart that changed his whole character,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and like the unyielding Deity that follows the storm to check its rage in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000516">he resolves for the first time to shake off his embarrassment and return where he had before only worshiped.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000517">At last we begin to get the Major’s measure.</span>
   <span id="f000518">We are able to put this and that casual fact together,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and build the man up before our eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and look at him.</span>
   <span id="f000521">And after we have got him built,</span>
   <span id="f000522">we find him worth the trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000523">By the above comparison between his age and Ambulinia’s,</span>
   <span id="f000524">we guess the war-worn veteran to be twenty-two;</span>
   <span id="f000525">and the other facts stand thus:</span>
   <span id="f000526">he had grown up in the Cherokee country with the same equal proportions as one of the natives – how flowing and graceful the language,</span>
   <span id="f000527">and yet how tantalizing as to meaning!</span>
   <span id="f000528">– he had been turned adrift by his father,</span>
   <span id="f000529">to whom he had been “somewhat of a dutiful son”;</span>
   <span id="f000530">he wandered in distant lands;</span>
   <span id="f000531">came back frequently “to the scenes of his boyhood,</span>
   <span id="f000532">almost destitute of many of the comforts of life,” in order to get into the presence of his father’s winter-worn locks,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and spread a humid veil of darkness around his expectations;</span>
   <span id="f000534">but he was always promptly sent back to the cold charity of the combat again;</span>
   <span id="f000535">he learned to play the fiddle,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and made a name for himself in that line;</span>
   <span id="f000537">he had dwelt among the wild tribes;</span>
   <span id="f000538">he had philosophized about the despoilers of the kingdoms of the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and found out – the cunning creature – that they refer their differences to the learned for settlement;</span>
   <span id="f000540">he had achieved a vast fame as a military chieftain,</span>
   <span id="f000541">the Achilles of the Florida campaigns,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and then had got him a spelling-book and started to school;</span>
   <span id="f000543">he had fallen in love with Ambulinia Valeer while she was teething,</span>
   <span id="f000544">but had kept it to himself awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000545">out of the reverential awe which he felt for the child;</span>
   <span id="f000546">but now at last,</span>
   <span id="f000547">like the unyielding Deity who follows the storm to check its rage in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000548">he resolves to shake off his embarrassment,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and to return where before he had only worshiped.</span>
   <span id="f000550">The Major,</span>
   <span id="f000551">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000552">has made up his mind to rise up and shake his faculties together,</span>
   <span id="f000553">and to see if HE can’t do that thing himself.</span>
   <span id="f000554">This is not clear.</span>
   <span id="f000555">But no matter about that:</span>
   <span id="f000556">there stands the hero,</span>
   <span id="f000557">compact and visible;</span>
   <span id="f000558">and he is no mean structure,</span>
   <span id="f000559">considering that his creator had never structure,</span>
   <span id="f000560">considering that his creator had never created anything before,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and hadn’t anything but rags and wind to build with this time.</span>
   <span id="f000562">It seems to me that no one can contemplate this odd creature,</span>
   <span id="f000563">this quaint and curious blatherskite,</span>
   <span id="f000564">without admiring McClintock,</span>
   <span id="f000565">or,</span>
   <span id="f000566">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000567">loving him and feeling grateful to him;</span>
   <span id="f000568">for McClintock made him,</span>
   <span id="f000569">he gave him to us;</span>
   <span id="f000570">without McClintock we could not have had him,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and would now be poor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">But we must come to the feast again.</span>
   <span id="f000573">Here is a courtship scene,</span>
   <span id="f000574">down there in the romantic glades among the raccoons,</span>
   <span id="f000575">alligators,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and things,</span>
   <span id="f000577">that has merit,</span>
   <span id="f000578">peculiar literary merit.</span>
   <span id="f000579">See how Achilles woos.</span>
   <span id="f000580">Dwell upon the second sentence</span>
   <span id="f000581">(particularly the close of it)</span>
   <span id="f000582">and the beginning of the third.</span>
   <span id="f000583">Never mind the new personage,</span>
   <span id="f000584">Leos,</span>
   <span id="f000585">who is intruded upon us unheralded and unexplained.</span>
   <span id="f000586">That is McClintock’s way;</span>
   <span id="f000587">it is his habit;</span>
   <span id="f000588">it is a part of his genius;</span>
   <span id="f000589">he cannot help it;</span>
   <span id="f000590">he never interrupts the rush of his narrative to make introductions.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000591">It could not escape Ambulinia’s penetrating eye that he sought an interview with her,</span>
   <span id="f000592">which she as anxiously avoided,</span>
   <span id="f000593">and assumed a more distant calmness than before,</span>
   <span id="f000594">seemingly to destroy all hope.</span>
   <span id="f000595">After many efforts and struggles with his own person,</span>
   <span id="f000596">with timid steps the Major approached the damsel,</span>
   <span id="f000597">with the same caution as he would have done in a field of battle.</span>
   <span id="f000598">“Lady Ambulinia,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000599">trembling,</span>
   <span id="f000600">“I have long desired a moment like this.</span>
   <span id="f000601">I dare not let it escape.</span>
   <span id="f000602">I fear the consequences;</span>
   <span id="f000603">yet I hope your indulgence will at least hear my petition.</span>
   <span id="f000604">Can you not anticipate what I would say,</span>
   <span id="f000605">and what I am about to express?</span>
   <span id="f000606">Will not you,</span>
   <span id="f000607">like Minerva,</span>
   <span id="f000608">who sprung from the brain of Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000609">release me from thy winding chains or cure me – ” “Say no more,</span>
   <span id="f000610">Elfonzo,” answered Ambulinia,</span>
   <span id="f000611">with a serious look,</span>
   <span id="f000612">raising her hand as if she intended to swear eternal hatred against the whole world;</span>
   <span id="f000613">“another lady in my place would have perhaps answered your question in bitter coldness.</span>
   <span id="f000614">I know not the little arts of my sex.</span>
   <span id="f000615">I care but little for the vanity of those who would chide me,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and am unwilling as well as ashamed to be guilty of anything that would lead you to think ’all is not gold that glitters’;</span>
   <span id="f000617">so be no rash in your resolution.</span>
   <span id="f000618">It is better to repent now,</span>
   <span id="f000619">than to do it in a more solemn hour.</span>
   <span id="f000620">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000621">I know what you would say.</span>
   <span id="f000622">I know you have a costly gift for me – the noblest that man can make – YOUR HEART!</span>
   <span id="f000623">You should not offer it to one so unworthy.</span>
   <span id="f000624">Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000625">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000626">has allowed my father’s house to be made a house of solitude,</span>
   <span id="f000627">a home of silent obedience,</span>
   <span id="f000628">which my parents say is more to be admired than big names and high-sounding titles.</span>
   <span id="f000629">Notwithstanding all this,</span>
   <span id="f000630">let me speak the emotions of an honest heart – allow me to say in the fullness of my hopes that I anticipate better days.</span>
   <span id="f000631">The bird may stretch its wings toward the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000632">which it can never reach;</span>
   <span id="f000633">and flowers of the field appear to ascend in the same direction,</span>
   <span id="f000634">because they cannot do otherwise;</span>
   <span id="f000635">but man confides his complaints to the saints in whom he believes;</span>
   <span id="f000636">for in their abodes of light they know no more sorrow.</span>
   <span id="f000637">From your confession and indicative looks,</span>
   <span id="f000638">I must be that person;</span>
   <span id="f000639">if so deceive not yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">Elfonzo replied,</span>
   <span id="f000641">“Pardon me,</span>
   <span id="f000642">my dear madam,</span>
   <span id="f000643">for my frankness.</span>
   <span id="f000644">I have loved you from my earliest days – everything grand and beautiful hath borne the image of Ambulinia;</span>
   <span id="f000645">while precipices on every hand surrounded me,</span>
   <span id="f000646">your GUARDIAN ANGEL stood and beckoned me away from the deep abyss.</span>
   <span id="f000647">In every trial,</span>
   <span id="f000648">in every misfortune,</span>
   <span id="f000649">I have met with your helping hand;</span>
   <span id="f000650">yet I never dreamed or dared to cherish thy love,</span>
   <span id="f000651">till a voice impaired with age encouraged the cause,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and declared they who acquired thy favor should win a victory.</span>
   <span id="f000653">I saw how Leos worshiped thee.</span>
   <span id="f000654">I felt my own unworthiness.</span>
   <span id="f000655">I began to KNOW JEALOUSLY,</span>
   <span id="f000656">a strong guest – indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000657">in my bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000658">– yet I could see if I gained your admiration Leos was to be my rival.</span>
   <span id="f000659">I was aware that he had the influence of your parents,</span>
   <span id="f000660">and the wealth of a deceased relative,</span>
   <span id="f000661">which is too often mistaken for permanent and regular tranquillity;</span>
   <span id="f000662">yet I have determined by your permission to beg an interest in your prayers – to ask you to animate my drooping spirits by your smiles and your winning looks;</span>
   <span id="f000663">for if you but speak I shall be conqueror,</span>
   <span id="f000664">my enemies shall stagger like Olympus shakes.</span>
   <span id="f000665">And though earth and sea may tremble,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and the charioteer of the sun may forget his dashing steed,</span>
   <span id="f000667">yet I am assured that it is only to arm me with divine weapons which will enable me to complete my long-tried intention.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">“Return to yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000669">Elfonzo,” said Ambulinia,</span>
   <span id="f000670">pleasantly:</span>
   <span id="f000671">“a dream of vision has disturbed your intellect;</span>
   <span id="f000672">you are above the atmosphere,</span>
   <span id="f000673">dwelling in the celestial regions;</span>
   <span id="f000674">nothing is there that urges or hinders,</span>
   <span id="f000675">nothing that brings discord into our present litigation.</span>
   <span id="f000676">I entreat you to condescend a little,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and be a man,</span>
   <span id="f000678">and forget it all.</span>
   <span id="f000679">When Homer describes the battle of the gods and noble men fighting with giants and dragons,</span>
   <span id="f000680">they represent under this image our struggles with the delusions of our passions.</span>
   <span id="f000681">You have exalted me,</span>
   <span id="f000682">an unhappy girl,</span>
   <span id="f000683">to the skies;</span>
   <span id="f000684">you have called me a saint,</span>
   <span id="f000685">and portrayed in your imagination an angel in human form.</span>
   <span id="f000686">Let her remain such to you,</span>
   <span id="f000687">let her continue to be as you have supposed,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and be assured that she will consider a share in your esteem as her highest treasure.</span>
   <span id="f000689">Think not that I would allure you from the path in which your conscience leads you;</span>
   <span id="f000690">for you know I respect the conscience of others,</span>
   <span id="f000691">as I would die for my own.</span>
   <span id="f000692">Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000693">if I am worthy of thy love,</span>
   <span id="f000694">let such conversation never again pass between us.</span>
   <span id="f000695">Go,</span>
   <span id="f000696">seek a nobler theme!</span>
   <span id="f000697">we will seek it in the stream of time,</span>
   <span id="f000698">as the sun set in the Tigris.” As she spake these words she grasped the hand of Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000699">saying at the same time – “Peace and prosperity attend you,</span>
   <span id="f000700">my hero;</span>
   <span id="f000701">be up and doing!” Closing her remarks with this expression,</span>
   <span id="f000702">she walked slowly away,</span>
   <span id="f000703">leaving Elfonzo astonished and amazed.</span>
   <span id="f000704">He ventured not to follow or detain her.</span>
   <span id="f000705">Here he stood alone,</span>
   <span id="f000706">gazing at the stars;</span>
   <span id="f000707">confounded as he was,</span>
   <span id="f000708">here he stood.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000709">Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000710">there he stood.</span>
   <span id="f000711">There seems to be no doubt about that.</span>
   <span id="f000712">Nearly half of this delirious story has now been delivered to the reader.</span>
   <span id="f000713">It seems a pity to reduce the other half to a cold synopsis.</span>
   <span id="f000714">Pity!</span>
   <span id="f000715">it is more than a pity,</span>
   <span id="f000716">it is a crime;</span>
   <span id="f000717">for to synopsize McClintock is to reduce a sky-flushing conflagration to dull embers,</span>
   <span id="f000718">it is to reduce barbaric splendor to ragged poverty.</span>
   <span id="f000719">McClintock never wrote a line that was not precious;</span>
   <span id="f000720">he never wrote one that could be spared;</span>
   <span id="f000721">he never framed one from which a word could be removed without damage.</span>
   <span id="f000722">Every sentence that this master has produced may be likened to a perfect set of teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000723">white,</span>
   <span id="f000724">uniform,</span>
   <span id="f000725">beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000726">If you pull one,</span>
   <span id="f000727">the charm is gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000729">it is now necessary to begin to pull,</span>
   <span id="f000730">and to keep it up;</span>
   <span id="f000731">for lack of space requires us to synopsize.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">We left Elfonzo standing there amazed.</span>
   <span id="f000733">At what,</span>
   <span id="f000734">we do not know.</span>
   <span id="f000735">Not at the girl’s speech.</span>
   <span id="f000736">No;</span>
   <span id="f000737">we ourselves should have been amazed at it,</span>
   <span id="f000738">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000739">for none of us has ever heard anything resembling it;</span>
   <span id="f000740">but Elfonzo was used to speeches made up of noise and vacancy,</span>
   <span id="f000741">and could listen to them with undaunted mind like the “topmost topaz of an ancient tower”;</span>
   <span id="f000742">he was used to making them himself;</span>
   <span id="f000743">he – but let it go,</span>
   <span id="f000744">it cannot be guessed out;</span>
   <span id="f000745">we shall never know what it was that astonished him.</span>
   <span id="f000746">He stood there awhile;</span>
   <span id="f000747">then he said,</span>
   <span id="f000748">“Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000749">am I now Grief’s disappointed son at last?” He did not stop to examine his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000750">and to try to find out what he probably meant by that,</span>
   <span id="f000751">because,</span>
   <span id="f000752">for one reason,</span>
   <span id="f000753">“a mixture of ambition and greatness of soul moved upon his young heart,” and started him for the village.</span>
   <span id="f000754">He resumed his bench in school,</span>
   <span id="f000755">“and reasonably progressed in his education.” His heart was heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000756">but he went into society,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and sought surcease of sorrow in its light distractions.</span>
   <span id="f000758">He made himself popular with his violin,</span>
   <span id="f000759">“which seemed to have a thousand chords – more symphonious than the Muses of Apollo,</span>
   <span id="f000760">and more enchanting than the ghost of the Hills.” This is obscure,</span>
   <span id="f000761">but let it go.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">During this interval Leos did some unencouraged courting,</span>
   <span id="f000763">but at last,</span>
   <span id="f000764">“choked by his undertaking,” he desisted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">Presently “Elfonzo again wends his way to the stately walls and new-built village.” He goes to the house of his beloved;</span>
   <span id="f000766">she opens the door herself.</span>
   <span id="f000767">To my surprise – for Ambulinia’s heart had still seemed free at the time of their last interview – love beamed from the girl’s eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000768">One sees that Elfonzo was surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000769">too;</span>
   <span id="f000770">for when he caught that light,</span>
   <span id="f000771">“a halloo of smothered shouts ran through every vein.” A neat figure – a very neat figure,</span>
   <span id="f000772">indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000773">Then he kissed her.</span>
   <span id="f000774">“The scene was overwhelming.” They went into the parlor.</span>
   <span id="f000775">The girl said it was safe,</span>
   <span id="f000776">for her parents were abed,</span>
   <span id="f000777">and would never know.</span>
   <span id="f000778">Then we have this fine picture – flung upon the canvas with hardly an effort,</span>
   <span id="f000779">as you will notice.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000780">Advancing toward him,</span>
   <span id="f000781">she gave a bright display of her rosy neck,</span>
   <span id="f000782">and from her head the ambrosial locks breathed divine fragrance;</span>
   <span id="f000783">her robe hung waving to his view,</span>
   <span id="f000784">while she stood like a goddess confessed before him.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000785">There is nothing of interest in the couple’s interview.</span>
   <span id="f000786">Now at this point the girl invites Elfonzo to a village show,</span>
   <span id="f000787">where jealousy is the motive of the play,</span>
   <span id="f000788">for she wants to teach him a wholesome lesson,</span>
   <span id="f000789">if he is a jealous person.</span>
   <span id="f000790">But this is a sham,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and pretty shallow.</span>
   <span id="f000792">McClintock merely wants a pretext to drag in a plagiarism of his upon a scene or two in “Othello.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000793">The lovers went to the play.</span>
   <span id="f000794">Elfonzo was one of the fiddlers.</span>
   <span id="f000795">He and Ambulinia must not been seen together,</span>
   <span id="f000796">lest trouble follow with the girl’s malignant father;</span>
   <span id="f000797">we are made to understand that clearly.</span>
   <span id="f000798">So the two sit together in the orchestra,</span>
   <span id="f000799">in the midst of the musicians.</span>
   <span id="f000800">This does not seem to be good art.</span>
   <span id="f000801">In the first place,</span>
   <span id="f000802">the girl would be in the way,</span>
   <span id="f000803">for orchestras are always packed closely together,</span>
   <span id="f000804">and there is no room to spare for people’s girls;</span>
   <span id="f000805">in the next place,</span>
   <span id="f000806">one cannot conceal a girl in an orchestra without everybody taking notice of it.</span>
   <span id="f000807">There can be no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000808">it seems to me,</span>
   <span id="f000809">that this is bad art.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">Leos is present.</span>
   <span id="f000811">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000812">one of the first things that catches his eye is the maddening spectacle of Ambulinia “leaning upon Elfonzo’s chair.” This poor girl does not seem to understand even the rudiments of concealment.</span>
   <span id="f000813">But she is “in her seventeenth,” as the author phrases it,</span>
   <span id="f000814">and that is her justification.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">Leos meditates,</span>
   <span id="f000816">constructs a plan – with personal violence as a basis,</span>
   <span id="f000817">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000818">It was their way down there.</span>
   <span id="f000819">It is a good plain plan,</span>
   <span id="f000820">without any imagination in it.</span>
   <span id="f000821">He will go out and stand at the front door,</span>
   <span id="f000822">and when these two come out he will “arrest Ambulinia from the hands of the insolent Elfonzo,” and thus make for himself a “more prosperous field of immortality than ever was decreed by Omnipotence,</span>
   <span id="f000823">or ever pencil drew or artist imagined.” But,</span>
   <span id="f000824">dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000825">while he is waiting there the couple climb out at the back window and scurry home!</span>
   <span id="f000826">This is romantic enough,</span>
   <span id="f000827">but there is a lack of dignity in the situation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000828">At this point McClintock puts in the whole of his curious play – which we skip.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">Some correspondence follows now.</span>
   <span id="f000830">The bitter father and the distressed lovers write the letters.</span>
   <span id="f000831">Elopements are attempted.</span>
   <span id="f000832">They are idiotically planned,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and they fail.</span>
   <span id="f000834">Then we have several pages of romantic powwow and confusion dignifying nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000835">Another elopement is planned;</span>
   <span id="f000836">it is to take place on Sunday,</span>
   <span id="f000837">when everybody is at church.</span>
   <span id="f000838">But the “hero” cannot keep the secret;</span>
   <span id="f000839">he tells everybody.</span>
   <span id="f000840">Another author would have found another instrument when he decided to defeat this elopement;</span>
   <span id="f000841">but that is not McClintock’s way.</span>
   <span id="f000842">He uses the person that is nearest at hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000843">The evasion failed,</span>
   <span id="f000844">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000845">Ambulinia,</span>
   <span id="f000846">in her flight,</span>
   <span id="f000847">takes refuge in a neighbor’s house.</span>
   <span id="f000848">Her father drags her home.</span>
   <span id="f000849">The villagers gather,</span>
   <span id="f000850">attracted by the racket.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000851">Elfonzo was moved at this sight.</span>
   <span id="f000852">The people followed on to see what was going to become of Ambulinia,</span>
   <span id="f000853">while he,</span>
   <span id="f000854">with downcast looks,</span>
   <span id="f000855">kept at a distance,</span>
   <span id="f000856">until he saw them enter the abode of the father,</span>
   <span id="f000857">thrusting her,</span>
   <span id="f000858">that was the sigh of his soul,</span>
   <span id="f000859">out of his presence into a solitary apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000860">when she exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000861">“Elfonzo!</span>
   <span id="f000862">Elfonzo!</span>
   <span id="f000863">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000864">Elfonzo!</span>
   <span id="f000865">where art thou,</span>
   <span id="f000866">with all thy heroes?</span>
   <span id="f000867">haste,</span>
   <span id="f000868">oh!</span>
   <span id="f000869">haste,</span>
   <span id="f000870">come thou to my relief.</span>
   <span id="f000871">Ride on the wings of the wind!</span>
   <span id="f000872">Turn thy force loose like a tempest,</span>
   <span id="f000873">and roll on thy army like a whirlwind,</span>
   <span id="f000874">over this mountain of trouble and confusion.</span>
   <span id="f000875">Oh friends!</span>
   <span id="f000876">if any pity me,</span>
   <span id="f000877">let your last efforts throng upon the green hills,</span>
   <span id="f000878">and come to the relief of Ambulinia,</span>
   <span id="f000879">who is guilty of nothing but innocent love.” Elfonzo called out with a loud voice,</span>
   <span id="f000880">“My God,</span>
   <span id="f000881">can I stand this!</span>
   <span id="f000882">arouse up,</span>
   <span id="f000883">I beseech you,</span>
   <span id="f000884">and put an end to this tyranny.</span>
   <span id="f000885">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000886">my brave boys,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000887">“are you ready to go forth to your duty?” They stood around him.</span>
   <span id="f000888">“Who,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000889">“will call us to arms?</span>
   <span id="f000890">Where are my thunderbolts of war?</span>
   <span id="f000891">Speak ye,</span>
   <span id="f000892">the first who will meet the foe!</span>
   <span id="f000893">Who will go forward with me in this ocean of grievous temptation?</span>
   <span id="f000894">If there is one who desires to go,</span>
   <span id="f000895">let him come and shake hands upon the altar of devotion,</span>
   <span id="f000896">and swear that he will be a hero;</span>
   <span id="f000897">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000898">a Hector in a cause like this,</span>
   <span id="f000899">which calls aloud for a speedy remedy.” “Mine be the deed,” said a young lawyer,</span>
   <span id="f000900">“and mine alone;</span>
   <span id="f000901">Venus alone shall quit her station before I will forsake one jot or tittle of my promise to you;</span>
   <span id="f000902">what is death to me?</span>
   <span id="f000903">what is all this warlike army,</span>
   <span id="f000904">if it is not to win a victory?</span>
   <span id="f000905">I love the sleep of the lover and the mighty;</span>
   <span id="f000906">nor would I give it over till the blood of my enemies should wreak with that of my own.</span>
   <span id="f000907">But God forbid that our fame should soar on the blood of the slumberer.” Mr.&#160;Valeer stands at his door with the frown of a demon upon his brow,</span>
   <span id="f000908">with his dangerous weapon</span>
   <span id="f000909">(it is a crowbar)</span>
   <span id="f000910">ready to strike the first man who should enter his door.</span>
   <span id="f000911">“Who will arise and go forward through blood and carnage to the rescue of my Ambulinia?” said Elfonzo.</span>
   <span id="f000912">“All,” exclaimed the multitude;</span>
   <span id="f000913">and onward they went,</span>
   <span id="f000914">with their implements of battle.</span>
   <span id="f000915">Others,</span>
   <span id="f000916">of a more timid nature,</span>
   <span id="f000917">stood among the distant hills to see the result of the contest.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000918">It will hardly be believed that after all this thunder and lightning not a drop of rain fell;</span>
   <span id="f000919">but such is the fact.</span>
   <span id="f000920">Elfonzo and his gang stood up and black-guarded Mr.&#160;Valeer with vigor all night,</span>
   <span id="f000921">getting their outlay back with interest;</span>
   <span id="f000922">then in the early morning the army and its general retired from the field,</span>
   <span id="f000923">leaving the victory with their solitary adversary and his crowbar.</span>
   <span id="f000924">This is the first time this has happened in romantic literature.</span>
   <span id="f000925">The invention is original.</span>
   <span id="f000926">Everything in this book is original;</span>
   <span id="f000927">there is nothing hackneyed about it anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000928">Always,</span>
   <span id="f000929">in other romances,</span>
   <span id="f000930">when you find the author leading up to a climax,</span>
   <span id="f000931">you know what is going to happen.</span>
   <span id="f000932">But in this book it is different;</span>
   <span id="f000933">the thing which seems inevitable and unavoidable never happens;</span>
   <span id="f000934">it is circumvented by the art of the author every time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000935">Another elopement was attempted.</span>
   <span id="f000936">It failed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">We have now arrived at the end.</span>
   <span id="f000938">But it is not exciting.</span>
   <span id="f000939">McClintock thinks it is;</span>
   <span id="f000940">but it isn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000941">One day Elfonzo sent Ambulinia another note – a note proposing elopement No.</span>
   <span id="f000942">16.</span>
   <span id="f000943">This time the plan is admirable;</span>
   <span id="f000944">admirable,</span>
   <span id="f000945">sagacious,</span>
   <span id="f000946">ingenious,</span>
   <span id="f000947">imaginative,</span>
   <span id="f000948">deep – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000949">everything,</span>
   <span id="f000950">and perfectly easy.</span>
   <span id="f000951">One wonders why it was never thought of before.</span>
   <span id="f000952">This is the scheme.</span>
   <span id="f000953">Ambulinia is to leave the breakfast-table,</span>
   <span id="f000954">ostensibly to “attend to the placing of those flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000955">which should have been done a week ago” – artificial ones,</span>
   <span id="f000956">of course;</span>
   <span id="f000957">the others wouldn’t keep so long – and then,</span>
   <span id="f000958">instead of fixing the flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000959">she is to walk out to the grove,</span>
   <span id="f000960">and go off with Elfonzo.</span>
   <span id="f000961">The invention of this plan overstrained the author that is plain,</span>
   <span id="f000962">for he straightway shows failing powers.</span>
   <span id="f000963">The details of the plan are not many or elaborate.</span>
   <span id="f000964">The author shall state them himself – this good soul,</span>
   <span id="f000965">whose intentions are always better than his English:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000966">“You walk carelessly toward the academy grove,</span>
   <span id="f000967">where you will find me with a lightning steed,</span>
   <span id="f000968">elegantly equipped to bear you off where we shall be joined in wedlock with the first connubial rights.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000969">Last scene of all,</span>
   <span id="f000970">which the author,</span>
   <span id="f000971">now much enfeebled,</span>
   <span id="f000972">tries to smarten up and make acceptable to his spectacular heart by introducing some new properties – silver bow,</span>
   <span id="f000973">golden harp,</span>
   <span id="f000974">olive branch – things that can all come good in an elopement,</span>
   <span id="f000975">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000976">yet are not to be compared to an umbrella for real handiness and reliability in an excursion of that kind.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000977">And away she ran to the sacred grove,</span>
   <span id="f000978">surrounded with glittering pearls,</span>
   <span id="f000979">that indicated her coming.</span>
   <span id="f000980">Elfonzo hails her with his silver bow and his golden harp.</span>
   <span id="f000981">They meet – Ambulinia’s countenance brightens – Elfonzo leads up the winged steed.</span>
   <span id="f000982">“Mount,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000983">“ye true-hearted,</span>
   <span id="f000984">ye fearless soul – the day is ours.” She sprang upon the back of the young thunderbolt,</span>
   <span id="f000985">a brilliant star sparkles upon her head,</span>
   <span id="f000986">with one hand she grasps the reins,</span>
   <span id="f000987">and with the other she holds an olive branch.</span>
   <span id="f000988">“Lend thy aid,</span>
   <span id="f000989">ye strong winds,” they exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000990">“ye moon,</span>
   <span id="f000991">ye sun,</span>
   <span id="f000992">and all ye fair host of heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000993">witness the enemy conquered.” “Hold,” said Elfonzo,</span>
   <span id="f000994">“thy dashing steed.” “Ride on,” said Ambulinia,</span>
   <span id="f000995">“the voice of thunder is behind us.” And onward they went,</span>
   <span id="f000996">with such rapidity that they very soon arrived at Rural Retreat,</span>
   <span id="f000997">where they dismounted,</span>
   <span id="f000998">and were united with all the solemnities that usually attended such divine operations.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000999">There is but one Homer,</span>
   <span id="f001000">there is but one Shakespeare,</span>
   <span id="f001001">there is but one McClintock – and his immortal book is before you.</span>
   <span id="f001002">Homer could not have written this book,</span>
   <span id="f001003">Shakespeare could not have written it,</span>
   <span id="f001004">I could not have done it myself.</span>
   <span id="f001005">There is nothing just like it in the literature of any country or of any epoch.</span>
   <span id="f001006">It stands alone;</span>
   <span id="f001007">it is monumental.</span>
   <span id="f001008">It adds G.</span>
   <span id="f001009">Ragsdale McClintock’s to the sum of the republic’s imperishable names.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

