<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Elizabeth Klett</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Fullness of Life</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edith Wharton</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000007">I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000008">For hours she had lain in a kind of gentle torpor,</span>
   <span id="f000009">not unlike that sweet lassitude which masters one in the hush of a midsummer noon,</span>
   <span id="f000010">when the heat seems to have silenced the very birds and insects,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and,</span>
   <span id="f000012">lying sunk in the tasselled meadow-grasses,</span>
   <span id="f000013">one looks up through a level roofing of maple-leaves at the vast shadowless,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and unsuggestive blue.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000016">at ever-lengthening intervals,</span>
   <span id="f000017">a flash of pain darted through her,</span>
   <span id="f000018">like the ripple of sheet-lightning across such a midsummer sky;</span>
   <span id="f000019">but it was too transitory to shake her stupor,</span>
   <span id="f000020">that calm,</span>
   <span id="f000021">delicious,</span>
   <span id="f000022">bottomless stupor into which she felt herself sinking more and more deeply,</span>
   <span id="f000023">without a disturbing impulse of resistance,</span>
   <span id="f000024">an effort of reattachment to the vanishing edges of consciousness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">The resistance,</span>
   <span id="f000026">the effort,</span>
   <span id="f000027">had known their hour of violence;</span>
   <span id="f000028">but now they were at an end.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Through her mind,</span>
   <span id="f000030">long harried by grotesque visions,</span>
   <span id="f000031">fragmentary images of the life that she was leaving,</span>
   <span id="f000032">tormenting lines of verse,</span>
   <span id="f000033">obstinate presentments of pictures once beheld,</span>
   <span id="f000034">indistinct impressions of rivers,</span>
   <span id="f000035">towers,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and cupolas,</span>
   <span id="f000037">gathered in the length of journeys half forgotten – through her mind there now only moved a few primal sensations of colorless well-being;</span>
   <span id="f000038">a vague satisfaction in the thought that she had swallowed her noxious last draught of medicine…</span>
   <span id="f000039">and that she should never again hear the creaking of her husband’s boots – those horrible boots – and that no one would come to bother her about the next day’s dinner…</span>
   <span id="f000040">or the butcher’s book…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">At last even these dim sensations spent themselves in the thickening obscurity which enveloped her;</span>
   <span id="f000042">a dusk now filled with pale geometric roses,</span>
   <span id="f000043">circling softly,</span>
   <span id="f000044">interminably before her,</span>
   <span id="f000045">now darkened to a uniform blue-blackness,</span>
   <span id="f000046">the hue of a summer night without stars.</span>
   <span id="f000047">And into this darkness she felt herself sinking,</span>
   <span id="f000048">sinking,</span>
   <span id="f000049">with the gentle sense of security of one upheld from beneath.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Like a tepid tide it rose around her,</span>
   <span id="f000051">gliding ever higher and higher,</span>
   <span id="f000052">folding in its velvety embrace her relaxed and tired body,</span>
   <span id="f000053">now submerging her breast and shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000054">now creeping gradually,</span>
   <span id="f000055">with soft inexorableness,</span>
   <span id="f000056">over her throat to her chin,</span>
   <span id="f000057">to her ears,</span>
   <span id="f000058">to her mouth…</span>
   <span id="f000059">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000060">now it was rising too high;</span>
   <span id="f000061">the impulse to struggle was renewed;…</span>
   <span id="f000062">her mouth was full;…</span>
   <span id="f000063">she was choking…</span>
   <span id="f000064">Help!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“It is all over,” said the nurse,</span>
   <span id="f000066">drawing down the eyelids with official composure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">The clock struck three.</span>
   <span id="f000068">They remembered it afterward.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Someone opened the window and let in a blast of that strange,</span>
   <span id="f000070">neutral air which walks the earth between darkness and dawn;</span>
   <span id="f000071">someone else led the husband into another room.</span>
   <span id="f000072">He walked vaguely,</span>
   <span id="f000073">like a blind man,</span>
   <span id="f000074">on his creaking boots.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000075">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000076">She stood,</span>
   <span id="f000077">as it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000078">on a threshold,</span>
   <span id="f000079">yet no tangible gateway was in front of her.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Only a wide vista of light,</span>
   <span id="f000081">mild yet penetrating as the gathered glimmer of innumerable stars,</span>
   <span id="f000082">expanded gradually before her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000083">in blissful contrast to the cavernous darkness from which she had of late emerged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">She stepped forward,</span>
   <span id="f000085">not frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000086">but hesitating,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and as her eyes began to grow more familiar with the melting depths of light about her,</span>
   <span id="f000088">she distinguished the outlines of a landscape,</span>
   <span id="f000089">at first swimming in the opaline uncertainty of Shelley’s vaporous creations,</span>
   <span id="f000090">then gradually resolved into distincter shape – the vast unrolling of a sunlit plain,</span>
   <span id="f000091">aerial forms of mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and presently the silver crescent of a river in the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and a blue stencilling of trees along its curve – something suggestive in its ineffable hue of an azure background of Leonardo’s,</span>
   <span id="f000094">strange,</span>
   <span id="f000095">enchanting,</span>
   <span id="f000096">mysterious,</span>
   <span id="f000097">leading on the eye and the imagination into regions of fabulous delight.</span>
   <span id="f000098">As she gazed,</span>
   <span id="f000099">her heart beat with a soft and rapturous surprise;</span>
   <span id="f000100">so exquisite a promise she read in the summons of that hyaline distance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“And so death is not the end after all,” in sheer gladness she heard herself exclaiming aloud.</span>
   <span id="f000102">“I always knew that it couldn’t be.</span>
   <span id="f000103">I believed in Darwin,</span>
   <span id="f000104">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000105">I do still;</span>
   <span id="f000106">but then Darwin himself said that he wasn’t sure about the soul – at least,</span>
   <span id="f000107">I think he did – and Wallace was a spiritualist;</span>
   <span id="f000108">and then there was St.&#160;George Mivart – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">Her gaze lost itself in the ethereal remoteness of the mountains.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“How beautiful!</span>
   <span id="f000111">How satisfying!” she murmured.</span>
   <span id="f000112">“Perhaps now I shall really know what it is to live.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">As she spoke she felt a sudden thickening of her heart-beats,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and looking up she was aware that before her stood the Spirit of Life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“Have you never really known what it is to live?” the Spirit of Life asked her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“I have never known,” she replied,</span>
   <span id="f000117">“that fulness of life which we all feel ourselves capable of knowing;</span>
   <span id="f000118">though my life has not been without scattered hints of it,</span>
   <span id="f000119">like the scent of earth which comes to one sometimes far out at sea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“And what do you call the fulness of life?” the Spirit asked again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000122">I can’t tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000123">if you don’t know,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000124">almost reproachfully.</span>
   <span id="f000125">“Many words are supposed to define it – love and sympathy are those in commonest use,</span>
   <span id="f000126">but I am not even sure that they are the right ones,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and so few people really know what they mean.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“You were married,” said the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000129">“yet you did not find the fulness of life in your marriage?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000131">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000132">no,” she replied,</span>
   <span id="f000133">with an indulgent scorn,</span>
   <span id="f000134">“my marriage was a very incomplete affair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“And yet you were fond of your husband?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">“You have hit upon the exact word;</span>
   <span id="f000137">I was fond of him,</span>
   <span id="f000138">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000139">just as I was fond of my grandmother,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and the house that I was born in,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and my old nurse.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000143">I was fond of him,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and we were counted a very happy couple.</span>
   <span id="f000145">But I have sometimes thought that a woman’s nature is like a great house full of rooms:</span>
   <span id="f000146">there is the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000147">through which everyone passes in going in and out;</span>
   <span id="f000148">the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000149">where one receives formal visits;</span>
   <span id="f000150">the sitting-room,</span>
   <span id="f000151">where the members of the family come and go as they list;</span>
   <span id="f000152">but beyond that,</span>
   <span id="f000153">far beyond,</span>
   <span id="f000154">are other rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000155">the handles of whose doors perhaps are never turned;</span>
   <span id="f000156">no one knows the way to them,</span>
   <span id="f000157">no one knows whither they lead;</span>
   <span id="f000158">and in the innermost room,</span>
   <span id="f000159">the holy of holies,</span>
   <span id="f000160">the soul sits alone and waits for a footstep that never comes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“And your husband,” asked the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000162">after a pause,</span>
   <span id="f000163">“never got beyond the family sitting-room?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">“Never,” she returned,</span>
   <span id="f000165">impatiently;</span>
   <span id="f000166">“and the worst of it was that he was quite content to remain there.</span>
   <span id="f000167">He thought it perfectly beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000169">when he was admiring its commonplace furniture,</span>
   <span id="f000170">insignificant as the chairs and tables of a hotel parlor,</span>
   <span id="f000171">I felt like crying out to him:</span>
   <span id="f000172">’Fool,</span>
   <span id="f000173">will you never guess that close at hand are rooms full of treasures and wonders,</span>
   <span id="f000174">such as the eye of man hath not seen,</span>
   <span id="f000175">rooms that no step has crossed,</span>
   <span id="f000176">but that might be yours to live in,</span>
   <span id="f000177">could you but find the handle of the door?’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“Then,” the Spirit continued,</span>
   <span id="f000179">“those moments of which you lately spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000180">which seemed to come to you like scattered hints of the fulness of life,</span>
   <span id="f000181">were not shared with your husband?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000183">no – never.</span>
   <span id="f000184">He was different.</span>
   <span id="f000185">His boots creaked,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and he always slammed the door when he went out,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and he never read anything but railway novels and the sporting advertisements in the papers – and – and,</span>
   <span id="f000188">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000189">we never understood each other in the least.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“To what influence,</span>
   <span id="f000191">then,</span>
   <span id="f000192">did you owe those exquisite sensations?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“I can hardly tell.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Sometimes to the perfume of a flower;</span>
   <span id="f000195">sometimes to a verse of Dante or of Shakespeare;</span>
   <span id="f000196">sometimes to a picture or a sunset,</span>
   <span id="f000197">or to one of those calm days at sea,</span>
   <span id="f000198">when one seems to be lying in the hollow of a blue pearl;</span>
   <span id="f000199">sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000200">but rarely,</span>
   <span id="f000201">to a word spoken by someone who chanced to give utterance,</span>
   <span id="f000202">at the right moment,</span>
   <span id="f000203">to what I felt but could not express.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“Someone whom you loved?” asked the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“I never loved anyone,</span>
   <span id="f000206">in that way,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000207">rather sadly,</span>
   <span id="f000208">“nor was I thinking of any one person when I spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000209">but of two or three who,</span>
   <span id="f000210">by touching for an instant upon a certain chord of my being,</span>
   <span id="f000211">had called forth a single note of that strange melody which seemed sleeping in my soul.</span>
   <span id="f000212">It has seldom happened,</span>
   <span id="f000213">however,</span>
   <span id="f000214">that I have owed such feelings to people;</span>
   <span id="f000215">and no one ever gave me a moment of such happiness as it was my lot to feel one evening in the Church of Or San Michele,</span>
   <span id="f000216">in Florence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“Tell me about it,” said the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">It was near sunset on a rainy spring afternoon in Easter week.</span>
   <span id="f000219">The clouds had vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000220">dispersed by a sudden wind,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and as we entered the church the fiery panes of the high windows shone out like lamps through the dusk.</span>
   <span id="f000222">A priest was at the high altar,</span>
   <span id="f000223">his white cope a livid spot in the incense-laden obscurity,</span>
   <span id="f000224">the light of the candles flickering up and down like fireflies about his head;</span>
   <span id="f000225">a few people knelt near by.</span>
   <span id="f000226">We stole behind them and sat down on a bench close to the tabernacle of Orcagna.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">Strange to say,</span>
   <span id="f000228">though Florence was not new to me,</span>
   <span id="f000229">I had never been in the church before;</span>
   <span id="f000230">and in that magical light I saw for the first time the inlaid steps,</span>
   <span id="f000231">the fluted columns,</span>
   <span id="f000232">the sculptured bas-reliefs and canopy of the marvellous shrine.</span>
   <span id="f000233">The marble,</span>
   <span id="f000234">worn and mellowed by the subtle hand of time,</span>
   <span id="f000235">took on an unspeakable rosy hue,</span>
   <span id="f000236">suggestive in some remote way of the honey-colored columns of the Parthenon,</span>
   <span id="f000237">but more mystic,</span>
   <span id="f000238">more complex,</span>
   <span id="f000239">a color not born of the sun’s inveterate kiss,</span>
   <span id="f000240">but made up of cryptal twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and the flame of candles upon martyrs’ tombs,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and gleams of sunset through symbolic panes of chrysoprase and ruby;</span>
   <span id="f000243">such a light as illumines the missals in the library of Siena,</span>
   <span id="f000244">or burns like a hidden fire through the Madonna of Gian Bellini in the Church of the Redeemer,</span>
   <span id="f000245">at Venice;</span>
   <span id="f000246">the light of the Middle Ages,</span>
   <span id="f000247">richer,</span>
   <span id="f000248">more solemn,</span>
   <span id="f000249">more significant than the limpid sunshine of Greece.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">The church was silent,</span>
   <span id="f000251">but for the wail of the priest and the occasional scraping of a chair against the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and as I sat there,</span>
   <span id="f000253">bathed in that light,</span>
   <span id="f000254">absorbed in rapt contemplation of the marble miracle which rose before me,</span>
   <span id="f000255">cunningly wrought as a casket of ivory and enriched with jewel-like incrustations and tarnished gleams of gold,</span>
   <span id="f000256">I felt myself borne onward along a mighty current,</span>
   <span id="f000257">whose source seemed to be in the very beginning of things,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and whose tremendous waters gathered as they went all the mingled streams of human passion and endeavor.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Life in all its varied manifestations of beauty and strangeness seemed weaving a rhythmical dance around me as I moved,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and wherever the spirit of man had passed I knew that my foot had once been familiar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">As I gazed the mediaeval bosses of the tabernacle of Orcagna seemed to melt and flow into their primal forms so that the folded lotus of the Nile and the Greek acanthus were braided with the runic knots and fish-tailed monsters of the North,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and all the plastic terror and beauty born of man’s hand from the Ganges to the Baltic quivered and mingled in Orcagna’s apotheosis of Mary.</span>
   <span id="f000263">And so the river bore me on,</span>
   <span id="f000264">past the alien face of antique civilizations and the familiar wonders of Greece,</span>
   <span id="f000265">till I swam upon the fiercely rushing tide of the Middle Ages,</span>
   <span id="f000266">with its swirling eddies of passion,</span>
   <span id="f000267">its heaven-reflecting pools of poetry and art;</span>
   <span id="f000268">I heard the rhythmic blow of the craftsmen’s hammers in the goldsmiths’ workshops and on the walls of churches,</span>
   <span id="f000269">the party-cries of armed factions in the narrow streets,</span>
   <span id="f000270">the organ-roll of Dante’s verse,</span>
   <span id="f000271">the crackle of the fagots around Arnold of Brescia,</span>
   <span id="f000272">the twitter of the swallows to which St.&#160;Francis preached,</span>
   <span id="f000273">the laughter of the ladies listening on the hillside to the quips of the Decameron,</span>
   <span id="f000274">while plague-struck Florence howled beneath them – all this and much more I heard,</span>
   <span id="f000275">joined in strange unison with voices earlier and more remote,</span>
   <span id="f000276">fierce,</span>
   <span id="f000277">passionate,</span>
   <span id="f000278">or tender,</span>
   <span id="f000279">yet subdued to such awful harmony that I thought of the song that the morning stars sang together and felt as though it were sounding in my ears.</span>
   <span id="f000280">My heart beat to suffocation,</span>
   <span id="f000281">the tears burned my lids,</span>
   <span id="f000282">the joy,</span>
   <span id="f000283">the mystery of it seemed too intolerable to be borne.</span>
   <span id="f000284">I could not understand even then the words of the song;</span>
   <span id="f000285">but I knew that if there had been someone at my side who could have heard it with me,</span>
   <span id="f000286">we might have found the key to it together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“I turned to my husband,</span>
   <span id="f000288">who was sitting beside me in an attitude of patient dejection,</span>
   <span id="f000289">gazing into the bottom of his hat;</span>
   <span id="f000290">but at that moment he rose,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and stretching his stiffened legs,</span>
   <span id="f000292">said,</span>
   <span id="f000293">mildly:</span>
   <span id="f000294">’Hadn’t we better be going?</span>
   <span id="f000295">There doesn’t seem to be much to see here,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and you know the table d’hote dinner is at half-past six o’clock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">Her recital ended,</span>
   <span id="f000298">there was an interval of silence;</span>
   <span id="f000299">then the Spirit of Life said:</span>
   <span id="f000300">“There is a compensation in store for such needs as you have expressed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000302">then you DO understand?” she exclaimed.</span>
   <span id="f000303">“Tell me what compensation,</span>
   <span id="f000304">I entreat you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“It is ordained,” the Spirit answered,</span>
   <span id="f000306">“that every soul which seeks in vain on earth for a kindred soul to whom it can lay bare its inmost being shall find that soul here and be united to it for eternity.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">A glad cry broke from her lips.</span>
   <span id="f000308">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000309">shall I find him at last?” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000310">exultant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“He is here,” said the Spirit of Life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">She looked up and saw that a man stood near whose soul</span>
   <span id="f000313">(for in that unwonted light she seemed to see his soul more clearly than his face)</span>
   <span id="f000314">drew her toward him with an invincible force.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“Are you really he?” she murmured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“I am he,” he answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">She laid her hand in his and drew him toward the parapet which overhung the valley.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“Shall we go down together,” she asked him,</span>
   <span id="f000319">“into that marvellous country;</span>
   <span id="f000320">shall we see it together,</span>
   <span id="f000321">as if with the self-same eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and tell each other in the same words all that we think and feel?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“So,” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000324">“have I hoped and dreamed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">“What?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000326">with rising joy.</span>
   <span id="f000327">“Then you,</span>
   <span id="f000328">too,</span>
   <span id="f000329">have looked for me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“All my life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“How wonderful!</span>
   <span id="f000332">And did you never,</span>
   <span id="f000333">never find anyone in the other world who understood you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Not wholly – not as you and I understand each other.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“Then you feel it,</span>
   <span id="f000336">too?</span>
   <span id="f000337">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000338">I am happy,” she sighed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">They stood,</span>
   <span id="f000340">hand in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000341">looking down over the parapet upon the shimmering landscape which stretched forth beneath them into sapphirine space,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and the Spirit of Life,</span>
   <span id="f000343">who kept watch near the threshold,</span>
   <span id="f000344">heard now and then a floating fragment of their talk blown backward like the stray swallows which the wind sometimes separates from their migratory tribe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“Did you never feel at sunset – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000347">yes;</span>
   <span id="f000348">but I never heard anyone else say so.</span>
   <span id="f000349">Did you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“Do you remember that line in the third canto of the ’Inferno?’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000352">that line – my favorite always.</span>
   <span id="f000353">Is it possible – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">“You know the stooping Victory in the frieze of the Nike Apteros?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“You mean the one who is tying her sandal?</span>
   <span id="f000356">Then you have noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000357">too,</span>
   <span id="f000358">that all Botticelli and Mantegna are dormant in those flying folds of her drapery?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“After a storm in autumn have you never seen – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000361">it is curious how certain flowers suggest certain painters – the perfume of the incarnation,</span>
   <span id="f000362">Leonardo;</span>
   <span id="f000363">that of the rose,</span>
   <span id="f000364">Titian;</span>
   <span id="f000365">the tuberose,</span>
   <span id="f000366">Crivelli – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">“I never supposed that anyone else had noticed it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“Have you never thought – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000370">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000371">often and often;</span>
   <span id="f000372">but I never dreamed that anyone else had.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“But surely you must have felt – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000375">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000376">yes;</span>
   <span id="f000377">and you,</span>
   <span id="f000378">too – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“How beautiful!</span>
   <span id="f000380">How strange – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">Their voices rose and fell,</span>
   <span id="f000382">like the murmur of two fountains answering each other across a garden full of flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000383">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000384">with a certain tender impatience,</span>
   <span id="f000385">he turned to her and said:</span>
   <span id="f000386">“Love,</span>
   <span id="f000387">why should we linger here?</span>
   <span id="f000388">All eternity lies before us.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Let us go down into that beautiful country together and make a home for ourselves on some blue hill above the shining river.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">As he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000391">the hand she had forgotten in his was suddenly withdrawn,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and he felt that a cloud was passing over the radiance of her soul.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“A home,” she repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000394">slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000395">“a home for you and me to live in for all eternity?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“Why not,</span>
   <span id="f000397">love?</span>
   <span id="f000398">Am I not the soul that yours has sought?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“Y-yes – yes,</span>
   <span id="f000400">I know – but,</span>
   <span id="f000401">don’t you see,</span>
   <span id="f000402">home would not be like home to me,</span>
   <span id="f000403">unless – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“Unless?” he wonderingly repeated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">She did not answer,</span>
   <span id="f000406">but she thought to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000407">with an impulse of whimsical inconsistency,</span>
   <span id="f000408">“Unless you slammed the door and wore creaking boots.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">But he had recovered his hold upon her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and by imperceptible degrees was leading her toward the shining steps which descended to the valley.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000412">O my soul’s soul,” he passionately implored;</span>
   <span id="f000413">“why delay a moment?</span>
   <span id="f000414">Surely you feel,</span>
   <span id="f000415">as I do,</span>
   <span id="f000416">that eternity itself is too short to hold such bliss as ours.</span>
   <span id="f000417">It seems to me that I can see our home already.</span>
   <span id="f000418">Have I not always seem it in my dreams?</span>
   <span id="f000419">It is white,</span>
   <span id="f000420">love,</span>
   <span id="f000421">is it not,</span>
   <span id="f000422">with polished columns,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and a sculptured cornice against the blue?</span>
   <span id="f000424">Groves of laurel and oleander and thickets of roses surround it;</span>
   <span id="f000425">but from the terrace where we walk at sunset,</span>
   <span id="f000426">the eye looks out over woodlands and cool meadows where,</span>
   <span id="f000427">deep-bowered under ancient boughs,</span>
   <span id="f000428">a stream goes delicately toward the river.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Indoors our favorite pictures hang upon the walls and the rooms are lined with books.</span>
   <span id="f000430">Think,</span>
   <span id="f000431">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000432">at last we shall have time to read them all.</span>
   <span id="f000433">With which shall we begin?</span>
   <span id="f000434">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000435">help me to choose.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Shall it be ’Faust’ or the ’Vita Nuova,’ the ’Tempest’ or ’Les Caprices de Marianne,’ or the thirty-first canto of the ’Paradise,’ or ’Epipsychidion’ or ’Lycidas’?</span>
   <span id="f000437">Tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000438">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000439">which one?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">As he spoke he saw the answer trembling joyously upon her lips;</span>
   <span id="f000441">but it died in the ensuing silence,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and she stood motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000443">resisting the persuasion of his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“What is it?” he entreated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“Wait a moment,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000446">with a strange hesitation in her voice.</span>
   <span id="f000447">“Tell me first,</span>
   <span id="f000448">are you quite sure of yourself?</span>
   <span id="f000449">Is there no one on earth whom you sometimes remember?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">“Not since I have seen you,” he replied;</span>
   <span id="f000451">for,</span>
   <span id="f000452">being a man,</span>
   <span id="f000453">he had indeed forgotten.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">Still she stood motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and he saw that the shadow deepened on her soul.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“Surely,</span>
   <span id="f000457">love,” he rebuked her,</span>
   <span id="f000458">“it was not that which troubled you?</span>
   <span id="f000459">For my part I have walked through Lethe.</span>
   <span id="f000460">The past has melted like a cloud before the moon.</span>
   <span id="f000461">I never lived until I saw you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">She made no answer to his pleadings,</span>
   <span id="f000463">but at length,</span>
   <span id="f000464">rousing herself with a visible effort,</span>
   <span id="f000465">she turned away from him and moved toward the Spirit of Life,</span>
   <span id="f000466">who still stood near the threshold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“I want to ask you a question,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000468">in a troubled voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“Ask,” said the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">“A little while ago,” she began,</span>
   <span id="f000471">slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000472">“you told me that every soul which has not found a kindred soul on earth is destined to find one here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“And have you not found one?” asked the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000475">but will it be so with my husband’s soul also?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">“No,” answered the Spirit of Life,</span>
   <span id="f000477">“for your husband imagined that he had found his soul’s mate on earth in you;</span>
   <span id="f000478">and for such delusions eternity itself contains no cure.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">She gave a little cry.</span>
   <span id="f000480">Was it of disappointment or triumph?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">“Then – then what will happen to him when he comes here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">“That I cannot tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000483">Some field of activity and happiness he will doubtless find,</span>
   <span id="f000484">in due measure to his capacity for being active and happy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">She interrupted,</span>
   <span id="f000486">almost angrily:</span>
   <span id="f000487">“He will never be happy without me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“Do not be too sure of that,” said the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">She took no notice of this,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and the Spirit continued:</span>
   <span id="f000491">“He will not understand you here any better than he did on earth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">“No matter,” she said;</span>
   <span id="f000493">“I shall be the only sufferer,</span>
   <span id="f000494">for he always thought that he understood me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“His boots will creak just as much as ever – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“No matter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">“And he will slam the door – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000498">“Very likely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“And continue to read railway novels – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000500">She interposed,</span>
   <span id="f000501">impatiently:</span>
   <span id="f000502">“Many men do worse than that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">“But you said just now,” said the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000504">“that you did not love him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">“True,” she answered,</span>
   <span id="f000506">simply;</span>
   <span id="f000507">“but don’t you understand that I shouldn’t feel at home without him?</span>
   <span id="f000508">It is all very well for a week or two – but for eternity!</span>
   <span id="f000509">After all,</span>
   <span id="f000510">I never minded the creaking of his boots,</span>
   <span id="f000511">except when my head ached,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and I don’t suppose it will ache HERE;</span>
   <span id="f000513">and he was always so sorry when he had slammed the door,</span>
   <span id="f000514">only he never COULD remember not to.</span>
   <span id="f000515">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000516">no one else would know how to look after him,</span>
   <span id="f000517">he is so helpless.</span>
   <span id="f000518">His inkstand would never be filled,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and he would always be out of stamps and visiting-cards.</span>
   <span id="f000520">He would never remember to have his umbrella re-covered,</span>
   <span id="f000521">or to ask the price of anything before he bought it.</span>
   <span id="f000522">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000523">he wouldn’t even know what novels to read.</span>
   <span id="f000524">I always had to choose the kind he liked,</span>
   <span id="f000525">with a murder or a forgery and a successful detective.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">She turned abruptly to her kindred soul,</span>
   <span id="f000527">who stood listening with a mien of wonder and dismay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">“Don’t you see,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000529">“that I can’t possibly go with you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">“But what do you intend to do?” asked the Spirit of Life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">“What do I intend to do?” she returned,</span>
   <span id="f000532">indignantly.</span>
   <span id="f000533">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000534">I mean to wait for my husband,</span>
   <span id="f000535">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000536">If he had come here first HE would have waited for me for years and years;</span>
   <span id="f000537">and it would break his heart not to find me here when he comes.” She pointed with a contemptuous gesture to the magic vision of hill and vale sloping away to the translucent mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000538">“He wouldn’t give a fig for all that,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000539">“if he didn’t find me here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“But consider,” warned the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000541">“that you are now choosing for eternity.</span>
   <span id="f000542">It is a solemn moment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">“Choosing!” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000544">with a half-sad smile.</span>
   <span id="f000545">“Do you still keep up here that old fiction about choosing?</span>
   <span id="f000546">I should have thought that YOU knew better than that.</span>
   <span id="f000547">How can I help myself?</span>
   <span id="f000548">He will expect to find me here when he comes,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and he would never believe you if you told him that I had gone away with someone else – never,</span>
   <span id="f000550">never.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">“So be it,” said the Spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000552">“Here,</span>
   <span id="f000553">as on earth,</span>
   <span id="f000554">each one must decide for himself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">She turned to her kindred soul and looked at him gently,</span>
   <span id="f000556">almost wistfully.</span>
   <span id="f000557">“I am sorry,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000558">“I should have liked to talk with you again;</span>
   <span id="f000559">but you will understand,</span>
   <span id="f000560">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and I dare say you will find someone else a great deal cleverer – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">And without pausing to hear his answer she waved him a swift farewell and turned back toward the threshold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">“Will my husband come soon?” she asked the Spirit of Life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000564">“That you are not destined to know,” the Spirit replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">“No matter,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000566">cheerfully;</span>
   <span id="f000567">“I have all eternity to wait in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">And still seated alone on the threshold,</span>
   <span id="f000569">she listens for the creaking of his boots.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

