<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Cate Mackenzie</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Crooken Sands</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Bram Stoker</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Mr Arthur Fernlee Markam,</span>
   <span id="f000008">who took what was known as the Red House above the Mains of Crooken,</span>
   <span id="f000009">was a London merchant,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and being essentially a cockney,</span>
   <span id="f000011">thought it necessary when he went for the summer holidays to Scotland to provide an entire rig-out as a Highland chieftain,</span>
   <span id="f000012">as manifested in chromolithographs and on the music-hall stage.</span>
   <span id="f000013">He had once seen in the Empire the Great Prince – ’The Bounder King’ – bring down the house by appearing as ’The MacSlogan of that Ilk,’ and singing the celebrated Scotch song,</span>
   <span id="f000014">’There’s naething like haggis to mak a mon dry!’ and he had ever since preserved in his mind a faithful image of the picturesque and warlike appearance which he presented.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000016">if the true inwardness of Mr.&#160;Markam’s mind on the subject of his selection of Aberdeenshire as a summer resort were known,</span>
   <span id="f000017">it would be found that in the foreground of the holiday locality which his fancy painted stalked the many hued figure of the MacSlogan of that Ilk.</span>
   <span id="f000018">However,</span>
   <span id="f000019">be this as it may,</span>
   <span id="f000020">a very kind fortune – certainly so far as external beauty was concerned – led him to the choice of Crooken Bay.</span>
   <span id="f000021">It is a lovely spot,</span>
   <span id="f000022">between Aberdeen and Peterhead,</span>
   <span id="f000023">just under the rock-bound headland whence the long,</span>
   <span id="f000024">dangerous reefs known as The Spurs run out into the North Sea.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Between this and the ’Mains of Crooken’ – a village sheltered by the northern cliffs – lies the deep bay,</span>
   <span id="f000026">backed with a multitude of bent-grown dunes where the rabbits are to be found in thousands.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Thus at either end of the bay is a rocky promontory,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and when the dawn or the sunset falls on the rocks of red syenite the effect is very lovely.</span>
   <span id="f000029">The bay itself is floored with level sand and the tide runs far out,</span>
   <span id="f000030">leaving a smooth waste of hard sand on which are dotted here and there the stake nets and bag nets of the salmon fishers.</span>
   <span id="f000031">At one end of the bay there is a little group or cluster of rocks whose heads are raised something above high water,</span>
   <span id="f000032">except when in rough weather the waves come over them green.</span>
   <span id="f000033">At low tide they are exposed down to sand level;</span>
   <span id="f000034">and here is perhaps the only little bit of dangerous sand on this part of the eastern coast.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Between the rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000036">which are apart about some fifty feet,</span>
   <span id="f000037">is a small quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000038">which,</span>
   <span id="f000039">like the Goodwins,</span>
   <span id="f000040">is dangerous only with the incoming tide.</span>
   <span id="f000041">It extends outwards till it is lost in the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and inwards till it fades away in the hard sand of the upper beach.</span>
   <span id="f000043">On the slope of the hill which rises beyond the dunes,</span>
   <span id="f000044">midway between the Spurs and the Port of Crooken,</span>
   <span id="f000045">is the Red House.</span>
   <span id="f000046">It rises from the midst of a clump of fir-trees which protect it on three sides,</span>
   <span id="f000047">leaving the whole sea front open.</span>
   <span id="f000048">A trim old-fashioned garden stretches down to the roadway,</span>
   <span id="f000049">on crossing which a grassy path,</span>
   <span id="f000050">which can be used for light vehicles,</span>
   <span id="f000051">threads a way to the shore,</span>
   <span id="f000052">winding amongst the sand hills.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">When the Markam family arrived at the Red House after their thirty-six hours of pitching on the Aberdeen steamer <em>Ban Righ</em> from Blackwall,</span>
   <span id="f000054">with the subsequent train to Yellon and drive of a dozen miles,</span>
   <span id="f000055">they all agreed that they had never seen a more delightful spot.</span>
   <span id="f000056">The general satisfaction was more marked as at that very time none of the family were,</span>
   <span id="f000057">for several reasons,</span>
   <span id="f000058">inclined to find favourable anything or any place over the Scottish border.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Though the family was a large one,</span>
   <span id="f000060">the prosperity of the business allowed them all sorts of personal luxuries,</span>
   <span id="f000061">amongst which was a wide latitude in the way of dress.</span>
   <span id="f000062">The frequency of the Markam girls’ new frocks was a source of envy to their bosom friends and of joy to themselves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">Arthur Fernlee Markam had not taken his family into his confidence regarding his new costume.</span>
   <span id="f000064">He was not quite certain that he should be free from ridicule,</span>
   <span id="f000065">or at least from sarcasm,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and as he was sensitive on the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000067">he thought it better to be actually in the suitable environment before he allowed the full splendour to burst upon them.</span>
   <span id="f000068">He had taken some pains,</span>
   <span id="f000069">to insure the completeness of the Highland costume.</span>
   <span id="f000070">For the purpose he had paid many visits to ’The Scotch All-Wool Tartan Clothing Mart’ which had been lately established in Copthall-court by the Messrs.</span>
   <span id="f000071">MacCallum More and Roderick MacDhu.</span>
   <span id="f000072">He had anxious consultations with the head of the firm – MacCallum as he called himself,</span>
   <span id="f000073">resenting any such additions as ’Mr.’ or ’Esquire.’ The known stock of buckles,</span>
   <span id="f000074">buttons,</span>
   <span id="f000075">straps,</span>
   <span id="f000076">brooches and ornaments of all kinds were examined in critical detail;</span>
   <span id="f000077">and at last an eagle’s feather of sufficiently magnificent proportions was discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and the equipment was complete.</span>
   <span id="f000079">It was only when he saw the finished costume,</span>
   <span id="f000080">with the vivid hues of the tartan seemingly modified into comparative sobriety by the multitude of silver fittings,</span>
   <span id="f000081">the cairngorm brooches,</span>
   <span id="f000082">the philibeg,</span>
   <span id="f000083">dirk and sporran that he was fully and absolutely satisfied with his choice.</span>
   <span id="f000084">At first he had thought of the Royal Stuart dress tartan,</span>
   <span id="f000085">but abandoned it on the MacCallum pointing out that if he should happen to be in the neighbourhood of Balmoral it might lead to complications.</span>
   <span id="f000086">The MacCallum,</span>
   <span id="f000087">who,</span>
   <span id="f000088">by the way,</span>
   <span id="f000089">spoke with a remarkable cockney accent,</span>
   <span id="f000090">suggested other plaids in turn;</span>
   <span id="f000091">but now that the other question of accuracy had been raised,</span>
   <span id="f000092">Mr.&#160;Markam foresaw difficulties if he should by chance find himself in the locality of the clan whose colours he had usurped.</span>
   <span id="f000093">The MacCallum at last undertook to have,</span>
   <span id="f000094">at Markam’s expense,</span>
   <span id="f000095">a special pattern woven which would not be exactly the same as any existing tartan,</span>
   <span id="f000096">though partaking of the characteristics of many.</span>
   <span id="f000097">It was based on the Royal Stuart,</span>
   <span id="f000098">but contained suggestions as to simplicity of pattern from the Macalister and Ogilvie clans,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and as to neutrality of colour from the clans of Buchanan,</span>
   <span id="f000100">Macbeth,</span>
   <span id="f000101">Chief of Macintosh and Macleod.</span>
   <span id="f000102">When the specimen had been shown to Markam he had feared somewhat lest it should strike the eye of his domestic circle as gaudy;</span>
   <span id="f000103">but as Roderick MacDhu fell into perfect ecstasies over its beauty he did not make any objection to the completion of the piece.</span>
   <span id="f000104">He thought,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and wisely,</span>
   <span id="f000106">that if a genuine Scotchman like MacDhu liked it,</span>
   <span id="f000107">it must be right – especially as the junior partner was a man very much of his own build and appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000108">When the MacCallum was receiving his cheque – which,</span>
   <span id="f000109">by the way,</span>
   <span id="f000110">was a pretty stiff one – he remarked:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">’I’ve taken the liberty of having some more of the stuff woven in case you or any of your friends should want it.’ Markam was gratified,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and told him that he should be only too happy if the beautiful stuff which they had originated between them should become a favourite,</span>
   <span id="f000113">as he had no doubt it would in time.</span>
   <span id="f000114">He might make and sell as much as he would.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">Markam tried the dress on in his office one evening after the clerks had all gone home.</span>
   <span id="f000116">He was pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000117">though a little frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000118">at the result.</span>
   <span id="f000119">The MacCallum had done his work thoroughly,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and there was nothing omitted that could add to the martial dignity of the wearer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">’I shall not,</span>
   <span id="f000122">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000123">take the claymore and the pistols with me on ordinary occasions,’ said Markam to himself as he began to undress.</span>
   <span id="f000124">He determined that he would wear the dress for the first time on landing in Scotland,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and accordingly on the morning when the <em>Ban Righ</em> was hanging off the Girdle Ness lighthouse,</span>
   <span id="f000126">waiting for the tide to enter the port of Aberdeen,</span>
   <span id="f000127">he emerged from his cabin in all the gaudy splendour of his new costume.</span>
   <span id="f000128">The first comment he heard was from one of his own sons,</span>
   <span id="f000129">who did not recognise him at first.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">’Here’s a guy!</span>
   <span id="f000131">Great Scott!</span>
   <span id="f000132">It’s the governor!’ And the boy fled forthwith and tried to bury his laughter under a cushion in the saloon.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Markam was a good sailor and had not suffered from the pitching of the boat,</span>
   <span id="f000134">so that his naturally rubicund face was even more rosy by the conscious blush which suffused his cheeks when he had found himself at once the cynosure of all eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000135">He could have wished that he had not been so bold for he knew from the cold that there was a big bare spot under one side of his jauntily worn Glengarry cap.</span>
   <span id="f000136">However,</span>
   <span id="f000137">he faced the group of strangers boldly.</span>
   <span id="f000138">He was not,</span>
   <span id="f000139">outwardly,</span>
   <span id="f000140">upset even when some of the comments reached his ears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">’He’s off his bloomin’ chump,’ said a cockney in a suit of exaggerated plaid.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">’There’s flies on him,’ said a tall thin Yankee,</span>
   <span id="f000143">pale with sea-sickness,</span>
   <span id="f000144">who was on his way to take up his residence for a time as close as he could get to the gates of Balmoral.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">’Happy thought!</span>
   <span id="f000146">Let us fill our mulls;</span>
   <span id="f000147">now’s the chance!’ said a young Oxford man on his way home to Inverness.</span>
   <span id="f000148">But presently Mr.&#160;Markam heard the voice of his eldest daughter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">’Where is he?</span>
   <span id="f000150">Where is he?’ and she came tearing along the deck with her hat blowing behind her.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Her face showed signs of agitation,</span>
   <span id="f000152">for her mother had just been telling her of her father’s condition;</span>
   <span id="f000153">but when she saw him she instantly burst into laughter so violent that it ended in a fit of hysterics.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Something of the same kind happened to each of the other children.</span>
   <span id="f000155">When they had all had their turn Mr.&#160;Markam went to his cabin and sent his wife’s maid to tell each member of the family that he wanted to see them at once.</span>
   <span id="f000156">They all made their appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000157">suppressing their feelings as well as they could.</span>
   <span id="f000158">He said to them very quietly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">’My dears,</span>
   <span id="f000160">don’t I provide you all with ample allowances?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000162">father!’ they all answered gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000163">’no one could be more generous!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">’Don’t I let you dress as you please?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000166">father!’ – this a little sheepishly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">’Then,</span>
   <span id="f000168">my dears,</span>
   <span id="f000169">don’t you think it would be nicer and kinder of you not to try and make me feel uncomfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000170">even if I do assume a dress which is ridiculous in your eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000171">though quite common enough in the country where we are about to sojourn?’ There was no answer except that which appeared in their hanging heads.</span>
   <span id="f000172">He was a good father and they all knew it.</span>
   <span id="f000173">He was quite satisfied and went on:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">’There,</span>
   <span id="f000175">now,</span>
   <span id="f000176">run away and enjoy yourselves!</span>
   <span id="f000177">We shan’t have another word about it.’ Then he went on deck again and stood bravely the fire of ridicule which he recognised around him,</span>
   <span id="f000178">though nothing more was said within his hearing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">The astonishment and the amusement which his get-up occasioned on the <em>Ban Righ</em> was,</span>
   <span id="f000180">however,</span>
   <span id="f000181">nothing to that which it created in Aberdeen.</span>
   <span id="f000182">The boys and loafers,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and women with babies,</span>
   <span id="f000184">who waited at the landing shed,</span>
   <span id="f000185">followed <em>en masse</em> as the Markam party took their way to the railway station;</span>
   <span id="f000186">even the porters with their old-fashioned knots and their new-fashioned barrows,</span>
   <span id="f000187">who await the traveller at the foot of the gang-plank,</span>
   <span id="f000188">followed in wondering delight.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Fortunately the Peterhead train was just about to start,</span>
   <span id="f000190">so that the martyrdom was not unnecessarily prolonged.</span>
   <span id="f000191">In the carriage the glorious Highland costume was unseen,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and as there were but few persons at the station at Yellon,</span>
   <span id="f000193">all went well there.</span>
   <span id="f000194">When,</span>
   <span id="f000195">however,</span>
   <span id="f000196">the carriage drew near the Mains of Crooken and the fisher folk had run to their doors to see who it was that was passing,</span>
   <span id="f000197">the excitement exceeded all bounds.</span>
   <span id="f000198">The children with one impulse waved their bonnets and ran shouting behind the carriage;</span>
   <span id="f000199">the men forsook their nets and their baiting and followed;</span>
   <span id="f000200">the women clutched their babies,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and followed also.</span>
   <span id="f000202">The horses were tired after their long journey to Yellon and back,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and the hill was steep,</span>
   <span id="f000204">so that there was ample time for the crowd to gather and even to pass on ahead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">Mrs.&#160;Markam and the elder girls would have liked to make some protest or to do something to relieve their feelings of chagrin at the ridicule which they saw on all faces,</span>
   <span id="f000206">but there was a look of fixed determination on the face of the seeming Highlander which awed them a little,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and they were silent.</span>
   <span id="f000208">It might have been that the eagle’s feather,</span>
   <span id="f000209">even when arising above the bald head,</span>
   <span id="f000210">the cairngorm brooch even on the fat shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and the claymore,</span>
   <span id="f000212">dirk and pistols,</span>
   <span id="f000213">even when belted round the extensive paunch and protruding from the stocking on the sturdy calf,</span>
   <span id="f000214">fulfilled their existence as symbols of martial and terrifying import!</span>
   <span id="f000215">When the party arrived at the gate of the Red House there awaited them a crowd of Crooken inhabitants,</span>
   <span id="f000216">hatless and respectfully silent;</span>
   <span id="f000217">the remainder of the population was painfully toiling up the hill.</span>
   <span id="f000218">The silence was broken by only one sound,</span>
   <span id="f000219">that of a man with a deep voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">’Man!</span>
   <span id="f000221">but he’s forgotten the pipes!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">The servants had arrived some days before,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and all things were in readiness.</span>
   <span id="f000224">In the glow consequent on a good lunch after a hard journey all the disagreeables of travel and all the chagrin consequent on the adoption of the obnoxious costume were forgotten.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">That afternoon Markam,</span>
   <span id="f000226">still clad in full array,</span>
   <span id="f000227">walked through the Mains of Crooken.</span>
   <span id="f000228">He was all alone,</span>
   <span id="f000229">for,</span>
   <span id="f000230">strange to say,</span>
   <span id="f000231">his wife and both daughters had sick headaches,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and were,</span>
   <span id="f000233">as he was told,</span>
   <span id="f000234">lying down to rest after the fatigue of the journey.</span>
   <span id="f000235">His eldest son,</span>
   <span id="f000236">who claimed to be a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000237">had gone out by himself to explore the surroundings of the place,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and one of the boys could not be found.</span>
   <span id="f000239">The other boy,</span>
   <span id="f000240">on being told that his father had sent for him to come for a walk,</span>
   <span id="f000241">had managed – by accident,</span>
   <span id="f000242">of course – to fall into the water butt,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and had to be dried and rigged out afresh.</span>
   <span id="f000244">His clothes not having been as yet unpacked this was of course impossible without delay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">Mr.&#160;Markam was not quite satisfied with his walk.</span>
   <span id="f000246">He could not meet any of his neighbours.</span>
   <span id="f000247">It was not that there were not enough people about,</span>
   <span id="f000248">for every house and cottage seemed to be full;</span>
   <span id="f000249">but the people when in the open were either in their doorways some distance behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000250">or on the roadway a long distance in front.</span>
   <span id="f000251">As he passed he could see the tops of heads and the whites of eyes in the windows or round the corners of doors.</span>
   <span id="f000252">The only interview which he had was anything but a pleasant one.</span>
   <span id="f000253">This was with an odd sort of old man who was hardly ever heard to speak except to join in the ’Amens’ in the meeting-house.</span>
   <span id="f000254">His sole occupation seemed to be to wait at the window of the post-office from eight o’clock in the morning till the arrival of the mail at one,</span>
   <span id="f000255">when he carried the letter-bag to a neighbouring baronial castle.</span>
   <span id="f000256">The remainder of his day was spent on a seat in a draughty part of the port,</span>
   <span id="f000257">where the offal of the fish,</span>
   <span id="f000258">the refuse of the bait,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and the house rubbish was thrown,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and where the ducks were accustomed to hold high revel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">When Saft Tammie beheld him coming he raised his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000262">which were generally fixed on the nothing which lay on the roadway opposite his seat,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and,</span>
   <span id="f000264">seeming dazzled as if by a burst of sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000265">rubbed them and shaded them with his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Then he started up and raised his hand aloft in a denunciatory manner as he spoke:</span>
   <span id="f000267">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">’“Vanity of vanities,</span>
   <span id="f000269">saith the preacher.</span>
   <span id="f000270">All is vanity.” Mon,</span>
   <span id="f000271">be warned in time!</span>
   <span id="f000272">“Behold the lilies of the field,</span>
   <span id="f000273">they toil not,</span>
   <span id="f000274">neither do they spin,</span>
   <span id="f000275">yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.” Mon!</span>
   <span id="f000276">Mon!</span>
   <span id="f000277">Thy vanity is as the quicksand which swallows up all which comes within its spell.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Beware vanity!</span>
   <span id="f000279">Beware the quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000280">which yawneth for thee,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and which will swallow thee up!</span>
   <span id="f000282">See thyself!</span>
   <span id="f000283">Learn thine own vanity!</span>
   <span id="f000284">Meet thyself face to face,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and then in that moment thou shalt learn the fatal force of thy vanity.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Learn it,</span>
   <span id="f000287">know it,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and repent ere the quicksand swallow thee!’ Then without another word he went back to his seat and sat there immovable and expressionless as before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">Markam could not but feel a little upset by this tirade.</span>
   <span id="f000290">Only that it was spoken by a seeming madman,</span>
   <span id="f000291">he would have put it down to some eccentric exhibition of Scottish humour or impudence;</span>
   <span id="f000292">but the gravity of the message – for it seemed nothing else – made such a reading impossible.</span>
   <span id="f000293">He was,</span>
   <span id="f000294">however,</span>
   <span id="f000295">determined not to give in to ridicule,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and although he had not yet seen anything in Scotland to remind him even of a kilt,</span>
   <span id="f000297">he determined to wear his Highland dress.</span>
   <span id="f000298">When he returned home,</span>
   <span id="f000299">in less than half-an-hour,</span>
   <span id="f000300">he found that every member of the family was,</span>
   <span id="f000301">despite the headaches,</span>
   <span id="f000302">out taking a walk.</span>
   <span id="f000303">He took the opportunity afforded by their absence of locking himself in his dressing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000304">took off the Highland dress,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and,</span>
   <span id="f000306">putting on a suit of flannels,</span>
   <span id="f000307">lit a cigar and had a snooze.</span>
   <span id="f000308">He was awakened by the noise of the family coming in,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and at once donning his dress made his appearance in the drawing-room for tea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">He did not go out again that afternoon;</span>
   <span id="f000311">but after dinner he put on his dress again – he had,</span>
   <span id="f000312">of course dressed for dinner as usual – and went by himself for a walk on the sea-shore.</span>
   <span id="f000313">He had by this time come to the conclusion that he would get by degrees accustomed to the Highland dress before making it his ordinary wear.</span>
   <span id="f000314">The moon was up and he easily followed the path through the sand-hills,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and shortly struck the shore.</span>
   <span id="f000316">The tide was out and the beach firm as a rock,</span>
   <span id="f000317">so he strolled southwards to nearly the end of the bay.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Here he was attracted by two isolated rocks some little way out from the edge of the dunes,</span>
   <span id="f000319">so he strolled towards them.</span>
   <span id="f000320">When he reached the nearest one he climbed it,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and,</span>
   <span id="f000322">sitting there elevated some fifteen or twenty feet over the waste of sand,</span>
   <span id="f000323">enjoyed the lovely,</span>
   <span id="f000324">peaceful prospect.</span>
   <span id="f000325">The moon was rising behind the headland of Pennyfold,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and its light was just touching the top of the furthermost rock of the Spurs some three-quarters of a mile out;</span>
   <span id="f000327">the rest of the rocks were in dark shadow.</span>
   <span id="f000328">As the moon rose over the headland,</span>
   <span id="f000329">the rocks of the Spurs and then the beach by degrees became flooded with light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">For a good while Mr.&#160;Markam sat and looked at the rising moon and the growing area of light which followed its rise.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Then he turned and faced eastwards and sat with his chin in his hand looking seawards,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and revelling in the peace and beauty and freedom of the scene.</span>
   <span id="f000333">The roar of London – the darkness and the strife and weariness of London life – seemed to have passed quite away,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and he lived at the moment a freer and higher life.</span>
   <span id="f000335">He looked at the glistening water as it stole its way over the flat waste of sand,</span>
   <span id="f000336">coming closer and closer insensibly – the tide had turned.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Presently he heard a distant shouting along the beach very far off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">’The fishermen calling to each other,’ he said to himself and looked around.</span>
   <span id="f000339">As he did so he got a horrible shock,</span>
   <span id="f000340">for though just then a cloud sailed across the moon he saw,</span>
   <span id="f000341">in spite of the sudden darkness around him,</span>
   <span id="f000342">his own image.</span>
   <span id="f000343">For an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000344">on the top of the opposite rock he could see the bald back of the head and the Glengarry cap with the immense eagle’s feather.</span>
   <span id="f000345">As he staggered back his foot slipped,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and he began to slide down towards the sand between the two rocks.</span>
   <span id="f000347">He took no concern as to failing,</span>
   <span id="f000348">for the sand was really only a few feet below him,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and his mind was occupied with the figure or simulacrum of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000350">which had already disappeared.</span>
   <span id="f000351">As the easiest way of reaching <em>terra firma</em> he prepared to jump the remainder of the distance.</span>
   <span id="f000352">All this had taken but a second,</span>
   <span id="f000353">but the brain works quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and even as he gathered himself for the spring he saw the sand below him lying so marbly level shake and shiver in an odd way.</span>
   <span id="f000355">A sudden fear overcame him;</span>
   <span id="f000356">his knees failed,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and instead of jumping he slid miserably down the rock,</span>
   <span id="f000358">scratching his bare legs as he went.</span>
   <span id="f000359">His feet touched the sand – went through it like water – and he was down below his knees before he realised that he was in a quicksand.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Wildly he grasped at the rock to keep himself from sinking further,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and fortunately there was a jutting spur or edge which he was able to grasp instinctively.</span>
   <span id="f000362">To this he clung in grim desperation.</span>
   <span id="f000363">He tried to shout,</span>
   <span id="f000364">but his breath would not come,</span>
   <span id="f000365">till after a great effort his voice rang out.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Again he shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and it seemed as if the sound of his own voice gave him new courage,</span>
   <span id="f000368">for he was able to hold on to the rock for a longer time than he thought possible – though he held on only in blind desperation.</span>
   <span id="f000369">He was,</span>
   <span id="f000370">however,</span>
   <span id="f000371">beginning to find his grasp weakening,</span>
   <span id="f000372">when,</span>
   <span id="f000373">joy of joys!</span>
   <span id="f000374">his shout was answered by a rough voice from just above him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">’God be thankit,</span>
   <span id="f000376">I’m nae too late!’ and a fisherman with great thigh-boots came hurriedly climbing over the rock.</span>
   <span id="f000377">In an instant he recognised the gravity of the danger,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and with a cheering ’Haud fast,</span>
   <span id="f000379">mon!</span>
   <span id="f000380">I’m comin’!’ scrambled down till he found a firm foothold.</span>
   <span id="f000381">Then with one strong hand holding the rock above,</span>
   <span id="f000382">he leaned down,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and catching Markam’s wrist,</span>
   <span id="f000384">called out to him,</span>
   <span id="f000385">’Haud to me,</span>
   <span id="f000386">mon!</span>
   <span id="f000387">Haud to me wi’ ither hond!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">Then he lent his great strength,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and with a steady,</span>
   <span id="f000390">sturdy pull,</span>
   <span id="f000391">dragged him out of the hungry quicksand and placed him safe upon the rock.</span>
   <span id="f000392">Hardly giving him time to draw breath,</span>
   <span id="f000393">he pulled and pushed him – never letting him go for an instant – over the rock into the firm sand beyond it,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and finally deposited him,</span>
   <span id="f000395">still shaking from the magnitude of his danger,</span>
   <span id="f000396">high upon the beach.</span>
   <span id="f000397">Then he began to speak:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">’Mon!</span>
   <span id="f000399">but I was just in time.</span>
   <span id="f000400">If I had no laucht at yon foolish lads and begun to rin at the first you’d a bin sinkin’ doon to the bowels o’ the airth be the noo!</span>
   <span id="f000401">Wully Beagrie thocht you was a ghaist,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and Tom MacPhail swore ye was only like a goblin on a puddick-steel!</span>
   <span id="f000403">“Na!” said I.</span>
   <span id="f000404">“Yon’s but the daft Englishman – the loony that had escapit frae the waxwarks.” I was thinkin’ that bein’ strange and silly – if not a whole-made feel – ye’d no ken the ways o’ the quicksan’!</span>
   <span id="f000405">I shouted till warn ye,</span>
   <span id="f000406">and then ran to drag ye aff,</span>
   <span id="f000407">if need be.</span>
   <span id="f000408">But God be thankit,</span>
   <span id="f000409">be ye fule or only half-daft wi’ yer vanity,</span>
   <span id="f000410">that I was no that late!’ and he reverently lifted his cap as he spoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">Mr.&#160;Markam was deeply touched and thankful for his escape from a horrible death;</span>
   <span id="f000412">but the sting of the charge of vanity thus made once more against him came through his humility.</span>
   <span id="f000413">He was about to reply angrily,</span>
   <span id="f000414">when suddenly a great awe fell upon him as he remembered the warning words of the half-crazy letter-carrier:</span>
   <span id="f000415">’Meet thyself face to face,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and repent ere the quicksand shall swallow thee!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000418">too,</span>
   <span id="f000419">he remembered the image of himself that he had seen and the sudden danger from the deadly quicksand that had followed.</span>
   <span id="f000420">He was silent a full minute,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and then said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">’My good fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000423">I owe you my life!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">The answer came with reverence from the hardy fisherman,</span>
   <span id="f000425">’Na!</span>
   <span id="f000426">Na!</span>
   <span id="f000427">Ye owe that to God;</span>
   <span id="f000428">but,</span>
   <span id="f000429">as for me,</span>
   <span id="f000430">I’m only too glad till be the humble instrument o’ His mercy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">’But you will let me thank you,’ said Mr.&#160;Markam,</span>
   <span id="f000432">taking both the great hands of his deliverer in his and holding them tight.</span>
   <span id="f000433">’My heart is too full as yet,</span>
   <span id="f000434">and my nerves are too much shaken to let me say much;</span>
   <span id="f000435">but,</span>
   <span id="f000436">believe me,</span>
   <span id="f000437">I am very,</span>
   <span id="f000438">very grateful!’ It was quite evident that the poor old fellow was deeply touched,</span>
   <span id="f000439">for the tears were running down his cheeks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">The fisherman said,</span>
   <span id="f000441">with a rough but true courtesy:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">’Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000443">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000444">thank me and ye will – if it’ll do yer poor heart good.</span>
   <span id="f000445">An’ I’m thinking that if it were me I’d be thankful too.</span>
   <span id="f000446">But,</span>
   <span id="f000447">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000448">as for me I need no thanks.</span>
   <span id="f000449">I am glad,</span>
   <span id="f000450">so I am!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">That Arthur Fernlee Markam was really thankful and grateful was shown practically later on.</span>
   <span id="f000452">Within a week’s time there sailed into Port Crooken the finest fishing smack that had ever been seen in the harbour of Peterhead.</span>
   <span id="f000453">She was fully found with sails and gear of all kinds,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and with nets of the best.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Her master and men went away by the coach,</span>
   <span id="f000456">after having left with the salmon-fisher’s wife the papers which made her over to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">As Mr.&#160;Markam and the salmon-fisher walked together along the shore the former asked his companion not to mention the fact that he had been in such imminent danger,</span>
   <span id="f000458">for that it would only distress his dear wife and children.</span>
   <span id="f000459">He said that he would warn them all of the quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and for that purpose he,</span>
   <span id="f000461">then and there,</span>
   <span id="f000462">asked questions about it till he felt that his information on the subject was complete.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Before they parted he asked his companion if he had happened to see a second figure,</span>
   <span id="f000464">dressed like himself on the other rock as he had approached to succour him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">’Na!</span>
   <span id="f000466">Na!’ came the answer,</span>
   <span id="f000467">’there is nae sic another fule in these parts.</span>
   <span id="f000468">Nor has there been since the time o’ Jamie Fleeman – him that was fule to the Laird o’ Udny.</span>
   <span id="f000469">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000470">mon!</span>
   <span id="f000471">sic a heathenish dress as ye have on till ye has nae been seen in these pairts within the memory o’ mon.</span>
   <span id="f000472">An’ I’m thinkin’ that sic a dress never was for sittin’ on the cauld rock,</span>
   <span id="f000473">as ye done beyont.</span>
   <span id="f000474">Mon!</span>
   <span id="f000475">but do ye no fear the rheumatism or the lumbagy wi’ floppin’ doon on to the cauld stanes wi’ yer bare flesh?</span>
   <span id="f000476">I was thinking that it was daft ye waur when I see ye the mornin’ doon be the port,</span>
   <span id="f000477">but it’s fule or eediot ye maun be for the like o’ thot!’ Mr.&#160;Markam did not care to argue the point,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and as they were now close to his own home he asked the salmon-fisher to have a glass of whisky – which he did – and they parted for the night.</span>
   <span id="f000479">He took good care to warn all his family of the quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000480">telling them that he had himself been in some danger from it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">All that night he never slept.</span>
   <span id="f000482">He heard the hours strike one after the other;</span>
   <span id="f000483">but try how he would he could not get to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000484">Over and over again he went through the horrible episode of the quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000485">from the time that Saft Tammie had broken his habitual silence to preach to him of the sin of vanity and to warn him.</span>
   <span id="f000486">The question kept ever arising in his mind:</span>
   <span id="f000487">’Am I then so vain as to be in the ranks of the foolish?’ and the answer ever came in the words of the crazy prophet:</span>
   <span id="f000488">’“Vanity of vanities!</span>
   <span id="f000489">All is vanity.” Meet thyself face to face,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and repent ere the quicksand shall swallow thee!’ Somehow a feeling of doom began to shape itself in his mind that he would yet perish in that same quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000491">for there he had already met himself face to face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">In the grey of the morning he dozed off,</span>
   <span id="f000493">but it was evident that he continued the subject in his dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000494">for he was fully awakened by his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000495">who said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">’Do sleep quietly!</span>
   <span id="f000497">That blessed Highland suit has got on your brain.</span>
   <span id="f000498">Don’t talk in your sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000499">if you can help it!’ He was somehow conscious of a glad feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000500">as if some terrible weight had been lifted from him,</span>
   <span id="f000501">but he did not know any cause of it.</span>
   <span id="f000502">He asked his wife what he had said in his sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and she answered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">’You said it often enough,</span>
   <span id="f000505">goodness knows,</span>
   <span id="f000506">for one to remember it – “Not face to face!</span>
   <span id="f000507">I saw the eagle plume over the bald head!</span>
   <span id="f000508">There is hope yet!</span>
   <span id="f000509">Not face to face!” Go to sleep!</span>
   <span id="f000510">Do!’ And then he did go to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000511">for he seemed to realise that the prophecy of the crazy man had not yet been fulfilled.</span>
   <span id="f000512">He had not met himself face to face – as yet at all events.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">He was awakened early by a maid who came to tell him that there was a fisherman at the door who wanted to see him.</span>
   <span id="f000514">He dressed himself as quickly as he could – for he was not yet expert with the Highland dress – and hurried down,</span>
   <span id="f000515">not wishing to keep the salmon-fisher waiting.</span>
   <span id="f000516">He was surprised and not altogether pleased to find that his visitor was none other than Saft Tammie,</span>
   <span id="f000517">who at once opened fire on him:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">’I maun gang awa’ t’ the post;</span>
   <span id="f000519">but I thocht that I would waste an hour on ye,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and ca’ roond just to see if ye waur still that fou wi’ vanity as on the nicht gane by.</span>
   <span id="f000521">An I see that ye’ve no learned the lesson.</span>
   <span id="f000522">Well!</span>
   <span id="f000523">the time is comin’,</span>
   <span id="f000524">sure eneucht!</span>
   <span id="f000525">However I have all the time i’ the marnins to my ain sel’,</span>
   <span id="f000526">so I’ll aye look roond jist till see how ye gang yer ain gait to the quicksan’,</span>
   <span id="f000527">and then to the de’il!</span>
   <span id="f000528">I’m aff till ma wark the noo!’ And he went straightway,</span>
   <span id="f000529">leaving Mr.&#160;Markam considerably vexed,</span>
   <span id="f000530">for the maids within earshot were vainly trying to conceal their giggles.</span>
   <span id="f000531">He had fairly made up his mind to wear on that day ordinary clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000532">but the visit of Saft Tammie reversed his decision.</span>
   <span id="f000533">He would show them all that he was not a coward,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and he would go on as he had begun – come what might.</span>
   <span id="f000535">When he came to breakfast in full martial panoply the children,</span>
   <span id="f000536">one and all,</span>
   <span id="f000537">held down their heads and the backs of their necks became very red indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000538">As,</span>
   <span id="f000539">however,</span>
   <span id="f000540">none of them laughed – except Titus,</span>
   <span id="f000541">the youngest boy,</span>
   <span id="f000542">who was seized with a fit of hysterical choking and was promptly banished from the room – he could not reprove them,</span>
   <span id="f000543">but began to break his egg with a sternly determined air.</span>
   <span id="f000544">It was unfortunate that as his wife was handing him a cup of tea one of the buttons of his sleeve caught in the lace of her morning wrapper,</span>
   <span id="f000545">with the result that the hot tea was spilt over his bare knees.</span>
   <span id="f000546">Not unnaturally,</span>
   <span id="f000547">he made use of a swear word,</span>
   <span id="f000548">whereupon his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000549">somewhat nettled,</span>
   <span id="f000550">spoke out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000552">Arthur,</span>
   <span id="f000553">if you will make such an idiot of yourself with that ridiculous costume what else can you expect?</span>
   <span id="f000554">You are not accustomed to it – and you never will be!’ In answer he began an indignant speech with:</span>
   <span id="f000555">’Madam!’ but he got no further,</span>
   <span id="f000556">for now that the subject was broached,</span>
   <span id="f000557">Mrs.&#160;Markam intended to have her say out.</span>
   <span id="f000558">It was not a pleasant say,</span>
   <span id="f000559">and,</span>
   <span id="f000560">truth to tell,</span>
   <span id="f000561">it was not said in a pleasant manner.</span>
   <span id="f000562">A wife’s manner seldom is pleasant when she undertakes to tell what she considers ’truths’ to her husband.</span>
   <span id="f000563">The result was that Arthur Fernlee Markam undertook,</span>
   <span id="f000564">then and there,</span>
   <span id="f000565">that during his stay in Scotland he would wear no other costume than the one she abused.</span>
   <span id="f000566">Woman-like his wife had the last word – given in this case with tears:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000567">’Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000568">Arthur!</span>
   <span id="f000569">Of course you will do as you choose.</span>
   <span id="f000570">Make me as ridiculous as you can,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and spoil the poor girls’ chances in life.</span>
   <span id="f000572">Young men don’t seem to care,</span>
   <span id="f000573">as a general rule,</span>
   <span id="f000574">for an idiot father-in-law!</span>
   <span id="f000575">But I must warn you that your vanity will some day get a rude shock – if indeed you are not before then in an asylum or dead!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">It was manifest after a few days that Mr.&#160;Markam would have to take the major part of his outdoor exercise by himself.</span>
   <span id="f000577">The girls now and again took a walk with him,</span>
   <span id="f000578">chiefly in the early morning or late at night,</span>
   <span id="f000579">or on a wet day when there would be no one about;</span>
   <span id="f000580">they professed to be willing to go out at all times,</span>
   <span id="f000581">but somehow something always seemed to occur to prevent it.</span>
   <span id="f000582">The boys could never be found at all on such occasions,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and as to Mrs.&#160;Markam she sternly refused to go out with him on any consideration so long as he should continue to make a fool of himself.</span>
   <span id="f000584">On the Sunday he dressed himself in his habitual broadcloth,</span>
   <span id="f000585">for he rightly felt that church was not a place for angry feelings;</span>
   <span id="f000586">but on Monday morning he resumed his Highland garb.</span>
   <span id="f000587">By this time he would have given a good deal if he had never thought of the dress,</span>
   <span id="f000588">but his British obstinacy was strong,</span>
   <span id="f000589">and he would not give in.</span>
   <span id="f000590">Saft Tammie called at his house every morning,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and,</span>
   <span id="f000592">not being able to see him nor to have any message taken to him,</span>
   <span id="f000593">used to call back in the afternoon when the letter-bag had been delivered and watched for his going out.</span>
   <span id="f000594">On such occasions he never failed to warn him against his vanity in the same words which he had used at the first.</span>
   <span id="f000595">Before many days were over Mr.&#160;Markam had come to look upon him as little short of a scourge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">By the time the week was out the enforced partial solitude,</span>
   <span id="f000597">the constant chagrin,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and the never-ending brooding which was thus engendered,</span>
   <span id="f000599">began to make Mr.&#160;Markam quite ill.</span>
   <span id="f000600">He was too proud to take any of his family into his confidence since they had in his view treated him very badly.</span>
   <span id="f000601">Then he did not sleep well at night,</span>
   <span id="f000602">and when he did sleep he had constantly bad dreams.</span>
   <span id="f000603">Merely to assure himself that his pluck was not failing him he made it a practice to visit the quicksand at least once every day,</span>
   <span id="f000604">he hardly ever failed to go there the last thing at night.</span>
   <span id="f000605">It was perhaps this habit that wrought the quicksand with its terrible experience so perpetually into his dreams.</span>
   <span id="f000606">More and more vivid these became,</span>
   <span id="f000607">till on waking at times he could hardly realise that he had not been actually in the flesh to visit the fatal spot.</span>
   <span id="f000608">He sometimes thought that he might have been walking in his sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">One night his dream was so vivid that when he awoke he could not believe that it had only been a dream.</span>
   <span id="f000610">He shut his eyes again and again,</span>
   <span id="f000611">but each time the vision,</span>
   <span id="f000612">if it was a vision,</span>
   <span id="f000613">or the reality,</span>
   <span id="f000614">if it was a reality,</span>
   <span id="f000615">would rise before him.</span>
   <span id="f000616">The moon was shining full and yellow over the quicksand as he approached it;</span>
   <span id="f000617">he could see the expanse of light shaken and disturbed and full of black shadows as the liquid sand quivered and trembled and wrinkled and eddied as was its wont between its pauses of marble calm.</span>
   <span id="f000618">As he drew close to it another figure came towards it from the opposite side with equal footsteps.</span>
   <span id="f000619">He saw that it was his own figure,</span>
   <span id="f000620">his very self,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and in silent terror,</span>
   <span id="f000622">compelled by what force he knew not,</span>
   <span id="f000623">he advanced – charmed as the bird is by the snake,</span>
   <span id="f000624">mesmerised or hypnotised – to meet this other self.</span>
   <span id="f000625">As he felt the yielding sand closing over him he awoke in the agony of death,</span>
   <span id="f000626">trembling with fear,</span>
   <span id="f000627">and,</span>
   <span id="f000628">strange to say,</span>
   <span id="f000629">with the silly man’s prophecy seeming to sound in his ears:</span>
   <span id="f000630">’“Vanity of vanities!</span>
   <span id="f000631">All is vanity!” See thyself and repent ere the quicksand swallow thee!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000632">So convinced was he that this was no dream that he arose,</span>
   <span id="f000633">early as it was,</span>
   <span id="f000634">and dressing himself without disturbing his wife took his way to the shore.</span>
   <span id="f000635">His heart fell when he came across a series of footsteps on the sands,</span>
   <span id="f000636">which he at once recognised as his own.</span>
   <span id="f000637">There was the same wide heel,</span>
   <span id="f000638">the same square toe;</span>
   <span id="f000639">he had no doubt now that he had actually been there,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and half horrified,</span>
   <span id="f000641">and half in a state of dreamy stupor,</span>
   <span id="f000642">he followed the footsteps,</span>
   <span id="f000643">and found them lost in the edge of the yielding quicksand.</span>
   <span id="f000644">This gave him a terrible shock,</span>
   <span id="f000645">for there were no return steps marked on the sand,</span>
   <span id="f000646">and he felt that there was some dread mystery which he could not penetrate,</span>
   <span id="f000647">and the penetration of which would,</span>
   <span id="f000648">he feared,</span>
   <span id="f000649">undo him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">In this state of affairs he took two wrong courses.</span>
   <span id="f000651">Firstly he kept his trouble to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and,</span>
   <span id="f000653">as none of his family had any clue to it,</span>
   <span id="f000654">every innocent word or expression which they used supplied fuel to the consuming fire of his imagination.</span>
   <span id="f000655">Secondly he began to read books professing to bear upon the mysteries of dreaming and of mental phenomena generally,</span>
   <span id="f000656">with the result that every wild imagination of every crank or half-crazy philosopher became a living germ of unrest in the fertilising soil of his disordered brain.</span>
   <span id="f000657">Thus negatively and positively all things began to work to a common end.</span>
   <span id="f000658">Not the least of his disturbing causes was Saft Tammie,</span>
   <span id="f000659">who had now become at certain times of the day a fixture at his gate.</span>
   <span id="f000660">After a while,</span>
   <span id="f000661">being interested in the previous state of this individual,</span>
   <span id="f000662">he made inquiries regarding his past with the following result.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">Saft Tammie was popularly believed to be the son of a laird in one of the counties round the Firth of Forth.</span>
   <span id="f000664">He had been partially educated for the ministry,</span>
   <span id="f000665">but for some cause which no one ever knew threw up his prospects suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and,</span>
   <span id="f000667">going to Peterhead in its days of whaling prosperity,</span>
   <span id="f000668">had there taken service on a whaler.</span>
   <span id="f000669">Here off and on he had remained for some years,</span>
   <span id="f000670">getting gradually more and more silent in his habits,</span>
   <span id="f000671">till finally his shipmates protested against so taciturn a mate,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and he had found service amongst the fishing smacks of the northern fleet.</span>
   <span id="f000673">He had worked for many years at the fishing with always the reputation of being ’a wee bit daft,’ till at length he had gradually settled down at Crooken,</span>
   <span id="f000674">where the laird,</span>
   <span id="f000675">doubtless knowing something of his family history,</span>
   <span id="f000676">had given him a job which practically made him a pensioner.</span>
   <span id="f000677">The minister who gave the information finished thus:</span>
   <span id="f000678">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">’It is a very strange thing,</span>
   <span id="f000680">but the man seems to have some odd kind of gift.</span>
   <span id="f000681">Whether it be that “second sight” which we Scotch people are so prone to believe in,</span>
   <span id="f000682">or some other occult form of knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f000683">I know not,</span>
   <span id="f000684">but nothing of a disastrous tendency ever occurs in this place but the men with whom he lives are able to quote after the event some saying of his which certainly appears to have foretold it.</span>
   <span id="f000685">He gets uneasy or excited – wakes up,</span>
   <span id="f000686">in fact – when death is in the air!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000687">This did not in any way tend to lessen Mr.&#160;Markam’s concern,</span>
   <span id="f000688">but on the contrary seemed to impress the prophecy more deeply on his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000689">Of all the books which he had read on his new subject of study none interested him so much as a German one <em>Die Döppleganger</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000690">by Dr.&#160;Heinrich von Aschenberg,</span>
   <span id="f000691">formerly of Bonn.</span>
   <span id="f000692">Here he learned for the first time of cases where men had led a double existence – each nature being quite apart from the other – the body being always a reality with one spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000693">and a simulacrum with the other.</span>
   <span id="f000694">Needless to say that Mr.&#160;Markam realised this theory as exactly suiting his own case.</span>
   <span id="f000695">The glimpse which he had of his own back the night of his escape from the quicksand – his own footmarks disappearing into the quicksand with no return steps visible – the prophecy of Saft Tammie about his meeting himself and perishing in the quicksand – all lent aid to the conviction that he was in his own person an instance of the döppleganger.</span>
   <span id="f000696">Being then conscious of a double life he took steps to prove its existence to his own satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000697">To this end on one night before going to bed he wrote his name in chalk on the soles of his shoes.</span>
   <span id="f000698">That night he dreamed of the quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000699">and of his visiting it – dreamed so vividly that on walking in the grey of the dawn he could not believe that he had not been there.</span>
   <span id="f000700">Arising,</span>
   <span id="f000701">without disturbing his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000702">he sought his shoes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">The chalk signatures were undisturbed!</span>
   <span id="f000704">He dressed himself and stole out softly.</span>
   <span id="f000705">This time the tide was in,</span>
   <span id="f000706">so he crossed the dunes and struck the shore on the further side of the quicksand.</span>
   <span id="f000707">There,</span>
   <span id="f000708">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000709">horror of horrors!</span>
   <span id="f000710">he saw his own footprints dying into the abyss!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">He went home a desperately sad man.</span>
   <span id="f000712">It seemed incredible that he,</span>
   <span id="f000713">an elderly commercial man,</span>
   <span id="f000714">who had passed a long and uneventful life in the pursuit of business in the midst of roaring,</span>
   <span id="f000715">practical London,</span>
   <span id="f000716">should thus find himself enmeshed in mystery and horror,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and that he should discover that he had two existences.</span>
   <span id="f000718">He could not speak of his trouble even to his own wife,</span>
   <span id="f000719">for well he knew that she would at once require the fullest particulars of that other life – the one which she did not know;</span>
   <span id="f000720">and that she would at the start not only imagine but charge him with all manner of infidelities on the head of it.</span>
   <span id="f000721">And so his brooding grew deeper and deeper still.</span>
   <span id="f000722">One evening – the tide then going out and the moon being at the full – he was sitting waiting for dinner when the maid announced that Saft Tammie was making a disturbance outside because he would not be let in to see him.</span>
   <span id="f000723">He was very indignant,</span>
   <span id="f000724">but did not like the maid to think that he had any fear on the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000725">and so told her to bring him in.</span>
   <span id="f000726">Tammie entered,</span>
   <span id="f000727">walking more briskly than ever with his head up and a look of vigorous decision in the eyes that were so generally cast down.</span>
   <span id="f000728">As soon as he entered he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">’I have come to see ye once again – once again;</span>
   <span id="f000730">and there ye sit,</span>
   <span id="f000731">still just like a cockatoo on a pairch.</span>
   <span id="f000732">Weel,</span>
   <span id="f000733">mon,</span>
   <span id="f000734">I forgie ye!</span>
   <span id="f000735">Mind ye that,</span>
   <span id="f000736">I forgie ye!’ And without a word more he turned and walked out of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000737">leaving the master in speechless indignation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000738">After dinner he determined to pay another visit to the quicksand – he would not allow even to himself that he was afraid to go.</span>
   <span id="f000739">And so,</span>
   <span id="f000740">about nine o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000741">in full array,</span>
   <span id="f000742">he marched to the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000743">and passing over the sands sat on the skirt of the nearer rock.</span>
   <span id="f000744">The full moon was behind him and its light lit up the bay so that its fringe of foam,</span>
   <span id="f000745">the dark outline of the headland,</span>
   <span id="f000746">and the stakes of the salmon-nets were all emphasised.</span>
   <span id="f000747">In the brilliant yellow glow the lights in the windows of Port Crooken and in those of the distant castle of the laird trembled like stars through the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000748">For a long time he sat and drank in the beauty of the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000749">and his soul seemed to feel a peace that it had not known for many days.</span>
   <span id="f000750">All the pettiness and annoyance and silly fears of the past weeks seemed blotted out,</span>
   <span id="f000751">and a new holy calm took the vacant place.</span>
   <span id="f000752">In this sweet and solemn mood he reviewed his late action calmly,</span>
   <span id="f000753">and felt ashamed of himself for his vanity and for the obstinacy which had followed it.</span>
   <span id="f000754">And then and there he made up his mind that the present would be the last time he would wear the costume which had estranged him from those whom he loved,</span>
   <span id="f000755">and which had caused him so many hours and days of chagrin,</span>
   <span id="f000756">vexation,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and pain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000758">But almost as soon as he arrived at this conclusion another voice seemed to speak within him and mockingly to ask him if he should ever get the chance to wear the suit again – that it was too late – he had chosen his course and must now abide the issue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000759">’It is not too late,’ came the quick answer of his better self;</span>
   <span id="f000760">and full of the thought,</span>
   <span id="f000761">he rose up to go home and divest himself of the now hateful costume right away.</span>
   <span id="f000762">He paused for one look at the beautiful scene.</span>
   <span id="f000763">The light lay pale and mellow,</span>
   <span id="f000764">softening every outline of rock and tree and house-top,</span>
   <span id="f000765">and deepening the shadows into velvety-black,</span>
   <span id="f000766">and lighting,</span>
   <span id="f000767">as with a pale flame,</span>
   <span id="f000768">the incoming tide,</span>
   <span id="f000769">that now crept fringe-like across the flat waste of sand.</span>
   <span id="f000770">Then he left the rock and stepped out for the shore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000771">But as he did so a frightful spasm of horror shook him,</span>
   <span id="f000772">and for an instant the blood rushing to his head shut out all the light of the full moon.</span>
   <span id="f000773">Once more he saw that fatal image of himself moving beyond the quicksand from the opposite rock to the shore.</span>
   <span id="f000774">The shock was all the greater for the contrast with the spell of peace which he had just enjoyed;</span>
   <span id="f000775">and,</span>
   <span id="f000776">almost paralysed in every sense,</span>
   <span id="f000777">he stood and watched the fatal vision and the wrinkly,</span>
   <span id="f000778">crawling quicksand that seemed to writhe and yearn for something that lay between.</span>
   <span id="f000779">There could be no mistake this time,</span>
   <span id="f000780">for though the moon behind threw the face into shadow he could see there the same shaven cheeks as his own,</span>
   <span id="f000781">and the small stubby moustache of a few weeks’ growth.</span>
   <span id="f000782">The light shone on the brilliant tartan,</span>
   <span id="f000783">and on the eagle’s plume.</span>
   <span id="f000784">Even the bald space at one side of the Glengarry cap glistened,</span>
   <span id="f000785">as did the cairngorm brooch on the shoulder and the tops of the silver buttons.</span>
   <span id="f000786">As he looked he felt his feet slightly sinking,</span>
   <span id="f000787">for he was still near the edge of the belt of quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000788">and he stepped back.</span>
   <span id="f000789">As he did so the other figure stepped forward,</span>
   <span id="f000790">so that the space between them was preserved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000791">So the two stood facing each other,</span>
   <span id="f000792">as though in some weird fascination;</span>
   <span id="f000793">and in the rushing of the blood through his brain Markam seemed to hear the words of the prophecy:</span>
   <span id="f000794">’See thyself face to face,</span>
   <span id="f000795">and repent ere the quicksand swallow thee.’ He did stand face to face with himself,</span>
   <span id="f000796">he had repented – and now he was sinking in the quicksand!</span>
   <span id="f000797">The warning and prophecy were coming true.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000798">Above him the seagulls screamed,</span>
   <span id="f000799">circling round the fringe of the incoming tide,</span>
   <span id="f000800">and the sound being entirely mortal recalled him to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000801">On the instant he stepped back a few quick steps,</span>
   <span id="f000802">for as yet only his feet were merged in the soft sand.</span>
   <span id="f000803">As he did so the other figure stepped forward,</span>
   <span id="f000804">and coming within the deadly grip of the quicksand began to sink.</span>
   <span id="f000805">It seemed to Markam that he was looking at himself going down to his doom,</span>
   <span id="f000806">and on the instant the anguish of his soul found vent in a terrible cry.</span>
   <span id="f000807">There was at the same instant a terrible cry from the other figure,</span>
   <span id="f000808">and as Markam threw up his hands the figure did the same.</span>
   <span id="f000809">With horror-struck eyes he saw him sink deeper into the quicksand;</span>
   <span id="f000810">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000811">impelled by what power he knew not,</span>
   <span id="f000812">he advanced again towards the sand to meet his fate.</span>
   <span id="f000813">But as his more forward foot began to sink he heard again the cries of the seagulls which seemed to restore his benumbed faculties.</span>
   <span id="f000814">With a mighty effort he drew his foot out of the sand which seemed to clutch it,</span>
   <span id="f000815">leaving his shoe behind,</span>
   <span id="f000816">and then in sheer terror he turned and ran from the place,</span>
   <span id="f000817">never stopping till his breath and strength failed him,</span>
   <span id="f000818">and he sank half swooning on the grassy path through the sandhills.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000819">Arthur Markam made up his mind not to tell his family of his terrible adventure – until at least such time as he should be complete master of himself.</span>
   <span id="f000820">Now that the fatal double – his other self – had been engulfed in the quicksand he felt something like his old peace of mind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">That night he slept soundly and did not dream at all;</span>
   <span id="f000822">and in the morning was quite his old self.</span>
   <span id="f000823">It really seemed as though his newer and worser self had disappeared for ever;</span>
   <span id="f000824">and strangely enough Saft Tammie was absent from his post that morning and never appeared there again,</span>
   <span id="f000825">but sat in his old place watching nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000826">as of old,</span>
   <span id="f000827">with lack-lustre eye.</span>
   <span id="f000828">In accordance with his resolution he did not wear his Highland suit again,</span>
   <span id="f000829">but one evening tied it up in a bundle,</span>
   <span id="f000830">claymore,</span>
   <span id="f000831">dirk and philibeg and all,</span>
   <span id="f000832">and bringing it secretly with him threw it into the quicksand.</span>
   <span id="f000833">With a feeling of intense pleasure he saw it sucked below the sand,</span>
   <span id="f000834">which closed above it into marble smoothness.</span>
   <span id="f000835">Then he went home and announced cheerily to his family assembled for evening prayers:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">’Well!</span>
   <span id="f000837">my dears,</span>
   <span id="f000838">you will be glad to hear that I have abandoned my idea of wearing the Highland dress.</span>
   <span id="f000839">I see now what a vain old fool I was and how ridiculous I made myself!</span>
   <span id="f000840">You shall never see it again!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000841">’Where is it,</span>
   <span id="f000842">father?’ asked one of the girls,</span>
   <span id="f000843">wishing to say something so that such a self-sacrificing announcement as her father’s should not be passed in absolute silence.</span>
   <span id="f000844">His answer was so sweetly given that the girl rose from her seat and came and kissed him.</span>
   <span id="f000845">It was:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">’In the quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000847">my dear!</span>
   <span id="f000848">and I hope that my worser self is buried there along with it – for ever.’</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000849">The remainder of the summer was passed at Crooken with delight by all the family,</span>
   <span id="f000850">and on his return to town Mr.&#160;Markam had almost forgotten the whole of the incident of the quicksand,</span>
   <span id="f000851">and all touching on it,</span>
   <span id="f000852">when one day he got a letter from the MacCallum More which caused him much thought,</span>
   <span id="f000853">though he said nothing of it to his family,</span>
   <span id="f000854">and left it,</span>
   <span id="f000855">for certain reasons,</span>
   <span id="f000856">unanswered.</span>
   <span id="f000857">It ran as follows:</span>
   <span id="f000858">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000859">’The MacCallum More and Roderick MacDhu.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000860">’The Scotch All-Wool Tartan Clothing Mart.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000861">Copthall Court,</span>
   <span id="f000862">E.C.,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000863">30th September,</span>
   <span id="f000864">1892.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000865">’Dear Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000866">– I trust you will pardon the liberty which I take in writing to you,</span>
   <span id="f000867">but I am desirous of making an inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000868">and I am informed that you have been sojourning during the summer in Aberdeenshire</span>
   <span id="f000869">(Scotland,</span>
   <span id="f000870">N.B.).</span>
   <span id="f000871">My partner,</span>
   <span id="f000872">Mr.&#160;Roderick MacDhu – as he appears for business reasons on our bill-heads and in our advertisements,</span>
   <span id="f000873">his real name being Emmanuel Moses Marks of London – went early last month to Scotland</span>
   <span id="f000874">(N.B.)</span>
   <span id="f000875">for a tour,</span>
   <span id="f000876">but as I have only once heard from him,</span>
   <span id="f000877">shortly after his departure,</span>
   <span id="f000878">I am anxious lest any misfortune may have befallen him.</span>
   <span id="f000879">As I have been unable to obtain any news of him on making all inquiries in my power,</span>
   <span id="f000880">I venture to appeal to you.</span>
   <span id="f000881">His letter was written in deep dejection of spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000882">and mentioned that he feared a judgment had come upon him for wishing to appear as a Scotchman on Scottish soil,</span>
   <span id="f000883">as he had one moonlight night shortly after his arrival seen his ’wraith’.</span>
   <span id="f000884">He evidently alluded to the fact that before his departure he had procured for himself a Highland costume similar to that which we had the honour to supply to you,</span>
   <span id="f000885">with which,</span>
   <span id="f000886">as perhaps you will remember,</span>
   <span id="f000887">he was much struck.</span>
   <span id="f000888">He may,</span>
   <span id="f000889">however,</span>
   <span id="f000890">never have worn it,</span>
   <span id="f000891">as he was,</span>
   <span id="f000892">to my own knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f000893">diffident about putting it on,</span>
   <span id="f000894">and even went so far as to tell me that he would at first only venture to wear it late at night or very early in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000895">and then only in remote places,</span>
   <span id="f000896">until such time as he should get accustomed to it.</span>
   <span id="f000897">Unfortunately he did not advise me of his route so that I am in complete ignorance of his whereabouts;</span>
   <span id="f000898">and I venture to ask if you may have seen or heard of a Highland costume similar to your own having been seen anywhere in the neighbourhood in which I am told you have recently purchased the estate which you temporarily occupied.</span>
   <span id="f000899">I shall not expect an answer to this letter unless you can give me some information regarding my friend and partner,</span>
   <span id="f000900">so pray do not trouble to reply unless there be cause.</span>
   <span id="f000901">I am encouraged to think that he may have been in your neighbourhood as,</span>
   <span id="f000902">though his letter is not dated,</span>
   <span id="f000903">the envelope is marked with the postmark of “Yellon” which I find is in Aberdeenshire,</span>
   <span id="f000904">and not far from the Mains of Crooken.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000905">’I have the honour to be,</span>
   <span id="f000906">dear sir,</span>
   <span id="f000907">’Yours very respectfully,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000908">’JOSHUA SHEENY COHEN BENJAMIN<br /></span>
   <span id="f000909">’</span>
   <span id="f000910">(The MacCallum More.)’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

