<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This LibriVox recording is in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />John Greenman</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000002">Italian Without a Master</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor">by<br />Mark Twain</p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000003">It is almost a fortnight now that I am domiciled in a medieval villa in the country,</span>
   <span id="f000004">a mile or two from Florence.</span>
   <span id="f000005">I cannot speak the language;</span>
   <span id="f000006">I am too old not to learn how,</span>
   <span id="f000007">also too busy when I am busy,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and too indolent when I am not;</span>
   <span id="f000009">wherefore some will imagine that I am having a dull time of it.</span>
   <span id="f000010">But it is not so.</span>
   <span id="f000011">The “help” are all natives;</span>
   <span id="f000012">they talk Italian to me,</span>
   <span id="f000013">I answer in English;</span>
   <span id="f000014">I do not understand them,</span>
   <span id="f000015">they do not understand me,</span>
   <span id="f000016">consequently no harm is done,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and everybody is satisfied.</span>
   <span id="f000018">In order to be just and fair,</span>
   <span id="f000019">I throw in an Italian word when I have one,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and this has a good influence.</span>
   <span id="f000021">I get the word out of the morning paper.</span>
   <span id="f000022">I have to use it while it is fresh,</span>
   <span id="f000023">for I find that Italian words do not keep in this climate.</span>
   <span id="f000024">They fade toward night,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and next morning they are gone.</span>
   <span id="f000026">But it is no matter;</span>
   <span id="f000027">I get a new one out of the paper before breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and thrill the domestics with it while it lasts.</span>
   <span id="f000029">I have no dictionary,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and I do not want one;</span>
   <span id="f000031">I can select words by the sound,</span>
   <span id="f000032">or by orthographic aspect.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Many of them have French or German or English look,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and these are the ones I enslave for the day’s service.</span>
   <span id="f000035">That is,</span>
   <span id="f000036">as a rule.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Not always.</span>
   <span id="f000038">If I find a learnable phrase that has an imposing look and warbles musically along I do not care to know the meaning of it;</span>
   <span id="f000039">I pay it out to the first applicant,</span>
   <span id="f000040">knowing that if I pronounce it carefully HE will understand it,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and that’s enough.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">Yesterday’s word was AVANTI.</span>
   <span id="f000043">It sounds Shakespearian,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and probably means Avaunt and quit my sight.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Today I have a whole phrase:</span>
   <span id="f000046">SONO DISPIACENTISSIMO.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I do not know what it means,</span>
   <span id="f000048">but it seems to fit in everywhere and give satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Although as a rule my words and phrases are good for one day and train only,</span>
   <span id="f000050">I have several that stay by me all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000051">for some unknown reason,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and these come very handy when I get into a long conversation and need things to fire up with in monotonous stretches.</span>
   <span id="f000053">One of the best ones is DOV’ `E IL GATTO.</span>
   <span id="f000054">It nearly always produces a pleasant surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000055">therefore I save it up for places where I want to express applause or admiration.</span>
   <span id="f000056">The fourth word has a French sound,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and I think the phrase means “that takes the cake.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">During my first week in the deep and dreamy stillness of this woodsy and flowery place I was without news of the outside world,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and was well content without it.</span>
   <span id="f000060">It has been four weeks since I had seen a newspaper,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and this lack seemed to give life a new charm and grace,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and to saturate it with a feeling verging upon actual delight.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Then came a change that was to be expected:</span>
   <span id="f000064">the appetite for news began to rise again,</span>
   <span id="f000065">after this invigorating rest.</span>
   <span id="f000066">I had to feed it,</span>
   <span id="f000067">but I was not willing to let it make me its helpless slave again;</span>
   <span id="f000068">I determined to put it on a diet,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and a strict and limited one.</span>
   <span id="f000070">So I examined an Italian paper,</span>
   <span id="f000071">with the idea of feeding it on that,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and on that exclusively.</span>
   <span id="f000073">On that exclusively,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and without help of a dictionary.</span>
   <span id="f000075">In this way I should surely be well protected against overloading and indigestion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">A glance at the telegraphic page filled me with encouragement.</span>
   <span id="f000077">There were no scare-heads.</span>
   <span id="f000078">That was good – supremely good.</span>
   <span id="f000079">But there were headings – one-liners and two-liners – and that was good too;</span>
   <span id="f000080">for without these,</span>
   <span id="f000081">one must do as one does with a German paper – pay our precious time in finding out what an article is about,</span>
   <span id="f000082">only to discover,</span>
   <span id="f000083">in many cases,</span>
   <span id="f000084">that there is nothing in it of interest to you.</span>
   <span id="f000085">The headline is a valuable thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">Necessarily we are all fond of murders,</span>
   <span id="f000087">scandals,</span>
   <span id="f000088">swindles,</span>
   <span id="f000089">robberies,</span>
   <span id="f000090">explosions,</span>
   <span id="f000091">collisions,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and all such things,</span>
   <span id="f000093">when we knew the people,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and when they are neighbors and friends,</span>
   <span id="f000095">but when they are strangers we do not get any great pleasure out of them,</span>
   <span id="f000096">as a rule.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Now the trouble with an American paper is that it has no discrimination;</span>
   <span id="f000098">it rakes the whole earth for blood and garbage,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and the result is that you are daily overfed and suffer a surfeit.</span>
   <span id="f000100">By habit you stow this muck every day,</span>
   <span id="f000101">but you come by and by to take no vital interest in it – indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000102">you almost get tired of it.</span>
   <span id="f000103">As a rule,</span>
   <span id="f000104">forty-nine-fiftieths of it concerns strangers only – people away off yonder,</span>
   <span id="f000105">a thousand miles,</span>
   <span id="f000106">two thousand miles,</span>
   <span id="f000107">ten thousand miles from where you are.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000109">when you come to think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000110">who cares what becomes of those people?</span>
   <span id="f000111">I would not give the assassination of one personal friend for a whole massacre of those others.</span>
   <span id="f000112">And,</span>
   <span id="f000113">to my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000114">one relative or neighbor mixed up in a scandal is more interesting than a whole Sodom and Gomorrah of outlanders gone rotten.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Give me the home product every time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">Very well.</span>
   <span id="f000117">I saw at a glance that the Florentine paper would suit me:</span>
   <span id="f000118">five out of six of its scandals and tragedies were local;</span>
   <span id="f000119">they were adventures of one’s very neighbors,</span>
   <span id="f000120">one might almost say one’s friends.</span>
   <span id="f000121">In the matter of world news there was not too much,</span>
   <span id="f000122">but just about enough.</span>
   <span id="f000123">I subscribed.</span>
   <span id="f000124">I have had no occasion to regret it.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Every morning I get all the news I need for the day;</span>
   <span id="f000126">sometimes from the headlines,</span>
   <span id="f000127">sometimes from the text.</span>
   <span id="f000128">I have never had to call for a dictionary yet.</span>
   <span id="f000129">I read the paper with ease.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Often I do not quite understand,</span>
   <span id="f000131">often some of the details escape me,</span>
   <span id="f000132">but no matter,</span>
   <span id="f000133">I get the idea.</span>
   <span id="f000134">I will cut out a passage or two,</span>
   <span id="f000135">then you see how limpid the language is:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000136">Il ritorno dei Beati d’Italia</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">Elargizione del Re all’ Ospedale italiano</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000138">The first line means that the Italian sovereigns are coming back – they have been to England.</span>
   <span id="f000139">The second line seems to mean that they enlarged the King at the Italian hospital.</span>
   <span id="f000140">With a banquet,</span>
   <span id="f000141">I suppose.</span>
   <span id="f000142">An English banquet has that effect.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Further:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000144">Il ritorno dei Sovrani</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">a Roma</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">ROMA,</span>
   <span id="f000147">24,</span>
   <span id="f000148">ore 22,50.</span>
   <span id="f000149">– I Sovrani e le Principessine Reali si attendono a Roma domani alle ore 15,51.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000150">Return of the sovereigns to Rome,</span>
   <span id="f000151">you see.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Date of the telegram,</span>
   <span id="f000153">Rome,</span>
   <span id="f000154">November 24,</span>
   <span id="f000155">ten minutes before twenty-three o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000156">The telegram seems to say,</span>
   <span id="f000157">“The Sovereigns and the Royal Children expect themselves at Rome tomorrow at fifty-one minutes after fifteen o’clock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">I do not know about Italian time,</span>
   <span id="f000159">but I judge it begins at midnight and runs through the twenty-four hours without breaking bulk.</span>
   <span id="f000160">In the following ad,</span>
   <span id="f000161">the theaters open at half-past twenty.</span>
   <span id="f000162">If these are not matinees,</span>
   <span id="f000163">20.30 must mean 8.30 P.M.,</span>
   <span id="f000164">by my reckoning.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000165">Spettacolli del di 25</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">TEATRO DELLA PERGOLA –</span>
   <span id="f000167">(Ore 20,30)</span>
   <span id="f000168">– Opera.</span>
   <span id="f000169">BOH`EME.</span>
   <span id="f000170">TEATRO ALFIERI.</span>
   <span id="f000171">– Compagnia drammatica Drago –</span>
   <span id="f000172">(Ore 20,30)</span>
   <span id="f000173">– LA LEGGE.</span>
   <span id="f000174">ALHAMBRA –</span>
   <span id="f000175">(Ore 20,30)</span>
   <span id="f000176">– Spettacolo variato.</span>
   <span id="f000177">SALA EDISON – Grandiosoo spettacolo Cinematografico:</span>
   <span id="f000178">QUO VADIS?</span>
   <span id="f000179">– Inaugurazione della Chiesa Russa – In coda al Direttissimo – Vedute di Firenze con gran movimeno – America:</span>
   <span id="f000180">Transporto tronchi giganteschi – I ladri in casa del Diavolo – Scene comiche.</span>
   <span id="f000181">CINEMATOGRAFO – Via Brunelleschi n.</span>
   <span id="f000182">4.</span>
   <span id="f000183">– Programma straordinario,</span>
   <span id="f000184">DON CHISCIOTTE – Prezzi populari.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000185">The whole of that is intelligible to me – and sane and rational,</span>
   <span id="f000186">too – except the remark about the Inauguration of a Russian Chinese.</span>
   <span id="f000187">That one oversizes my hand.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Give me five cards.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">This is a four-page paper;</span>
   <span id="f000190">and as it is set in long primer leaded and has a page of advertisements,</span>
   <span id="f000191">there is no room for the crimes,</span>
   <span id="f000192">disasters,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and general sweepings of the outside world – thanks be!</span>
   <span id="f000194">Today I find only a single importation of the off-color sort:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000195">Una Principessa</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">che fugge con un cocchiere</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">PARIGI,</span>
   <span id="f000198">24.</span>
   <span id="f000199">– Il MATIN ha da Berlino che la principessa Schovenbare-Waldenbure scomparve il 9 novembre.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Sarebbe partita col suo cocchiere.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">La Principassa ha 27 anni.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000202">Twenty-seven years old,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and scomparve – scampered – on the 9th November.</span>
   <span id="f000204">You see by the added detail that she departed with her coachman.</span>
   <span id="f000205">I hope Sarebbe has not made a mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000206">but I am afraid the chances are that she has.</span>
   <span id="f000207">SONO DISPIACENTISSIMO.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">There are several fires:</span>
   <span id="f000209">also a couple of accidents.</span>
   <span id="f000210">This is one of them:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000211">Grave disgrazia sul Ponte Vecchio</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">Stammattina,</span>
   <span id="f000213">circe le 7,30,</span>
   <span id="f000214">mentre Giuseppe Sciatti,</span>
   <span id="f000215">di anni 55,</span>
   <span id="f000216">di Casellina e Torri,</span>
   <span id="f000217">passava dal Ponte Vecchio,</span>
   <span id="f000218">stando seduto sopra un barroccio carico di verdura,</span>
   <span id="f000219">perse l’ equilibrio e cadde al suolo,</span>
   <span id="f000220">rimanendo con la gamba destra sotto una ruota del veicolo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">Lo Sciatti fu subito raccolto da alcuni cittadini,</span>
   <span id="f000222">che,</span>
   <span id="f000223">per mezzo della pubblica vettura n.</span>
   <span id="f000224">365,</span>
   <span id="f000225">lo transporto a San Giovanni di Dio.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">Ivi il medico di guardia gli riscontro la frattura della gamba destra e alcune lievi escoriazioni giudicandolo guaribile in 50 giorni salvo complicazioni.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000227">What it seems to say is this:</span>
   <span id="f000228">"Serious Disgrace on the Old Old Bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000229">This morning about 7.30,</span>
   <span id="f000230">Mr.&#160;Joseph Sciatti,</span>
   <span id="f000231">aged 55,</span>
   <span id="f000232">of Casellina and Torri,</span>
   <span id="f000233">while standing up in a sitting posture on top of a carico barrow of vedure</span>
   <span id="f000234">(foliage?</span>
   <span id="f000235">hay?</span>
   <span id="f000236">vegetables?),</span>
   <span id="f000237">lost his equilibrium and fell on himself,</span>
   <span id="f000238">arriving with his left leg under one of the wheels of the vehicle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“Said Sciatti was suddenly harvested</span>
   <span id="f000240">(gathered in?)</span>
   <span id="f000241">by several citizens,</span>
   <span id="f000242">who by means of public cab No.</span>
   <span id="f000243">365 transported to St.&#160;John of God.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">Paragraph No.</span>
   <span id="f000245">3 is a little obscure,</span>
   <span id="f000246">but I think it says that the medico set the broken left leg – right enough,</span>
   <span id="f000247">since there was nothing the matter with the other one – and that several are encouraged to hope that fifty days well fetch him around in quite giudicandolo-guaribile way,</span>
   <span id="f000248">if no complications intervene.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">I am sure I hope so myself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">There is a great and peculiar charm about reading news-scraps in a language which you are not acquainted with – the charm that always goes with the mysterious and the uncertain.</span>
   <span id="f000251">You can never be absolutely sure of the meaning of anything you read in such circumstances;</span>
   <span id="f000252">you are chasing an alert and gamy riddle all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and the baffling turns and dodges of the prey make the life of the hunt.</span>
   <span id="f000254">A dictionary would spoil it.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Sometimes a single word of doubtful purport will cast a veil of dreamy and golden uncertainty over a whole paragraph of cold and practical certainties,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and leave steeped in a haunting and adorable mystery an incident which had been vulgar and commonplace but for that benefaction.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Would you be wise to draw a dictionary on that gracious word?</span>
   <span id="f000258">would you be properly grateful?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">After a couple of days’ rest I now come back to my subject and seek a case in point.</span>
   <span id="f000260">I find it without trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000261">in the morning paper;</span>
   <span id="f000262">a cablegram from Chicago and Indiana by way of Paris.</span>
   <span id="f000263">All the words save one are guessable by a person ignorant of Italian:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000264">Revolverate in teatro</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">PARIGI,</span>
   <span id="f000266">27.</span>
   <span id="f000267">– La PATRIE ha da Chicago:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">Il guardiano del teatro dell’opera di Walace</span>
   <span id="f000269">(Indiana),</span>
   <span id="f000270">avendo voluto espellare uno spettatore che continuava a fumare malgrado il diviety,</span>
   <span id="f000271">questo spalleggiato dai suoi amici tir`o diversi colpi di rivoltella.</span>
   <span id="f000272">Il guardiano ripose.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Nacque una scarica generale.</span>
   <span id="f000274">Grande panico tra gli spettatori.</span>
   <span id="f000275">Nessun ferito.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000276">TRANSLATION.</span>
   <span id="f000277">– “Revolveration in Theater.</span>
   <span id="f000278">PARIS,</span>
   <span id="f000279">27TH.</span>
   <span id="f000280">LA PATRIE has from Chicago:</span>
   <span id="f000281">The cop of the theater of the opera of Wallace,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Indiana,</span>
   <span id="f000283">had willed to expel a spectator which continued to smoke in spite of the prohibition,</span>
   <span id="f000284">who,</span>
   <span id="f000285">spalleggiato by his friends,</span>
   <span id="f000286">tire</span>
   <span id="f000287">(Fr.</span>
   <span id="f000288">TIRE,</span>
   <span id="f000289">Anglice PULLED)</span>
   <span id="f000290">manifold revolver-shots;</span>
   <span id="f000291">great panic among the spectators.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Nobody hurt.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">It is bettable that that harmless cataclysm in the theater of the opera of Wallace,</span>
   <span id="f000294">Indiana,</span>
   <span id="f000295">excited not a person in Europe but me,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and so came near to not being worth cabling to Florence by way of France.</span>
   <span id="f000297">But it does excite me.</span>
   <span id="f000298">It excites me because I cannot make out,</span>
   <span id="f000299">for sure,</span>
   <span id="f000300">what it was that moved the spectator to resist the officer.</span>
   <span id="f000301">I was gliding along smoothly and without obstruction or accident,</span>
   <span id="f000302">until I came to that word “spalleggiato,” then the bottom fell out.</span>
   <span id="f000303">You notice what a rich gloom,</span>
   <span id="f000304">what a somber and pervading mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000305">that word sheds all over the whole Wallachian tragedy.</span>
   <span id="f000306">That is the charm of the thing,</span>
   <span id="f000307">that is the delight of it.</span>
   <span id="f000308">This is where you begin,</span>
   <span id="f000309">this is where you revel.</span>
   <span id="f000310">You can guess and guess,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and have all the fun you like;</span>
   <span id="f000312">you need not be afraid there will be an end to it;</span>
   <span id="f000313">none is possible,</span>
   <span id="f000314">for no amount of guessing will ever furnish you a meaning for that word that you can be sure is the right one.</span>
   <span id="f000315">All the other words give you hints,</span>
   <span id="f000316">by their form,</span>
   <span id="f000317">their sound,</span>
   <span id="f000318">or their spelling – this one doesn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000319">this one throws out no hints,</span>
   <span id="f000320">this one keeps its secret.</span>
   <span id="f000321">If there is even the slightest slight shadow of a hint anywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000322">it lies in the very meagerly suggestive fact that “spalleggiato” carries our word “egg” in its stomach.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000324">make the most out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and then where are you at?</span>
   <span id="f000326">You conjecture that the spectator which was smoking in spite of the prohibition and become reprohibited by the guardians,</span>
   <span id="f000327">was “egged on” by his friends,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and that was owing to that evil influence that he initiated the revolveration in theater that has galloped under the sea and come crashing through the European press without exciting anybody but me.</span>
   <span id="f000329">But are you sure,</span>
   <span id="f000330">are you dead sure,</span>
   <span id="f000331">that that was the way of it?</span>
   <span id="f000332">No.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Then the uncertainty remains,</span>
   <span id="f000334">the mystery abides,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and with it the charm.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Guess again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">If I had a phrase-book of a really satisfactory sort I would study it,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and not give all my free time to undictionarial readings,</span>
   <span id="f000339">but there is no such work on the market.</span>
   <span id="f000340">The existing phrase-books are inadequate.</span>
   <span id="f000341">They are well enough as far as they go,</span>
   <span id="f000342">but when you fall down and skin your leg they don’t tell you what to say.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

