<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure III<br />A Case of Identity</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">“My dear fellow,” said Sherlock Holmes as we sat on either side of the fire in his lodgings at Baker Street,</span>
   <span id="f000009">“life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent.</span>
   <span id="f000010">We would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence.</span>
   <span id="f000011">If we could fly out of that window hand in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000012">hover over this great city,</span>
   <span id="f000013">gently remove the roofs,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and peep in at the queer things which are going on,</span>
   <span id="f000015">the strange coincidences,</span>
   <span id="f000016">the plannings,</span>
   <span id="f000017">the cross-purposes,</span>
   <span id="f000018">the wonderful chains of events,</span>
   <span id="f000019">working through generations,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and leading to the most outré results,</span>
   <span id="f000021">it would make all fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">“And yet I am not convinced of it,” I answered.</span>
   <span id="f000023">“The cases which come to light in the papers are,</span>
   <span id="f000024">as a rule,</span>
   <span id="f000025">bald enough,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and vulgar enough.</span>
   <span id="f000027">We have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and yet the result is,</span>
   <span id="f000029">it must be confessed,</span>
   <span id="f000030">neither fascinating nor artistic.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a realistic effect,” remarked Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000032">“This is wanting in the police report,</span>
   <span id="f000033">where more stress is laid,</span>
   <span id="f000034">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000035">upon the platitudes of the magistrate than upon the details,</span>
   <span id="f000036">which to an observer contain the vital essence of the whole matter.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Depend upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000038">there is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">I smiled and shook my head.</span>
   <span id="f000040">“I can quite understand your thinking so,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000041">“Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000042">in your position of unofficial adviser and helper to everybody who is absolutely puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000043">throughout three continents,</span>
   <span id="f000044">you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre.</span>
   <span id="f000045">But here” – I picked up the morning paper from the ground – “let us put it to a practical test.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Here is the first heading upon which I come.</span>
   <span id="f000047">’A husband’s cruelty to his wife.’ There is half a column of print,</span>
   <span id="f000048">but I know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me.</span>
   <span id="f000049">There is,</span>
   <span id="f000050">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000051">the other woman,</span>
   <span id="f000052">the drink,</span>
   <span id="f000053">the push,</span>
   <span id="f000054">the blow,</span>
   <span id="f000055">the bruise,</span>
   <span id="f000056">the sympathetic sister or landlady.</span>
   <span id="f000057">The crudest of writers could invent nothing more crude.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000059">your example is an unfortunate one for your argument,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000060">taking the paper and glancing his eye down it.</span>
   <span id="f000061">“This is the Dundas separation case,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and,</span>
   <span id="f000063">as it happens,</span>
   <span id="f000064">I was engaged in clearing up some small points in connection with it.</span>
   <span id="f000065">The husband was a teetotaler,</span>
   <span id="f000066">there was no other woman,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and the conduct complained of was that he had drifted into the habit of winding up every meal by taking out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000068">which,</span>
   <span id="f000069">you will allow,</span>
   <span id="f000070">is not an action likely to occur to the imagination of the average story-teller.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Take a pinch of snuff,</span>
   <span id="f000072">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and acknowledge that I have scored over you in your example.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">He held out his snuffbox of old gold,</span>
   <span id="f000075">with a great amethyst in the centre of the lid.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Its splendour was in such contrast to his homely ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“Ah,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000078">“I forgot that I had not seen you for some weeks.</span>
   <span id="f000079">It is a little souvenir from the King of Bohemia in return for my assistance in the case of the Irene Adler papers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“And the ring?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000081">glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">“It was from the reigning family of Holland,</span>
   <span id="f000083">though the matter in which I served them was of such delicacy that I cannot confide it even to you,</span>
   <span id="f000084">who have been good enough to chronicle one or two of my little problems.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“And have you any on hand just now?” I asked with interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“Some ten or twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000087">but none which present any feature of interest.</span>
   <span id="f000088">They are important,</span>
   <span id="f000089">you understand,</span>
   <span id="f000090">without being interesting.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000092">I have found that it is usually in unimportant matters that there is a field for the observation,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and for the quick analysis of cause and effect which gives the charm to an investigation.</span>
   <span id="f000094">The larger crimes are apt to be the simpler,</span>
   <span id="f000095">for the bigger the crime the more obvious,</span>
   <span id="f000096">as a rule,</span>
   <span id="f000097">is the motive.</span>
   <span id="f000098">In these cases,</span>
   <span id="f000099">save for one rather intricate matter which has been referred to me from Marseilles,</span>
   <span id="f000100">there is nothing which presents any features of interest.</span>
   <span id="f000101">It is possible,</span>
   <span id="f000102">however,</span>
   <span id="f000103">that I may have something better before very many minutes are over,</span>
   <span id="f000104">for this is one of my clients,</span>
   <span id="f000105">or I am much mistaken.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds gazing down into the dull neutral-tinted London street.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Looking over his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000108">I saw that on the pavement opposite there stood a large woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and a large curling red feather in a broad-brimmed hat which was tilted in a coquettish Duchess of Devonshire fashion over her ear.</span>
   <span id="f000110">From under this great panoply she peeped up in a nervous,</span>
   <span id="f000111">hesitating fashion at our windows,</span>
   <span id="f000112">while her body oscillated backward and forward,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and her fingers fidgeted with her glove buttons.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000115">with a plunge,</span>
   <span id="f000116">as of the swimmer who leaves the bank,</span>
   <span id="f000117">she hurried across the road,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and we heard the sharp clang of the bell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“I have seen those symptoms before,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000120">throwing his cigarette into the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000121">“Oscillation upon the pavement always means an affaire de coeur.</span>
   <span id="f000122">She would like advice,</span>
   <span id="f000123">but is not sure that the matter is not too delicate for communication.</span>
   <span id="f000124">And yet even here we may discriminate.</span>
   <span id="f000125">When a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no longer oscillates,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Here we may take it that there is a love matter,</span>
   <span id="f000128">but that the maiden is not so much angry as perplexed,</span>
   <span id="f000129">or grieved.</span>
   <span id="f000130">But here she comes in person to resolve our doubts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">As he spoke there was a tap at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and the boy in buttons entered to announce Miss Mary Sutherland,</span>
   <span id="f000133">while the lady herself loomed behind his small black figure like a full-sailed merchant-man behind a tiny pilot boat.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Sherlock Holmes welcomed her with the easy courtesy for which he was remarkable,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and,</span>
   <span id="f000136">having closed the door and bowed her into an armchair,</span>
   <span id="f000137">he looked her over in the minute and yet abstracted fashion which was peculiar to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“Do you not find,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000139">“that with your short sight it is a little trying to do so much typewriting?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“I did at first,” she answered,</span>
   <span id="f000141">“but now I know where the letters are without looking.” Then,</span>
   <span id="f000142">suddenly realising the full purport of his words,</span>
   <span id="f000143">she gave a violent start and looked up,</span>
   <span id="f000144">with fear and astonishment upon her broad,</span>
   <span id="f000145">good-humoured face.</span>
   <span id="f000146">“You’ve heard about me,</span>
   <span id="f000147">Mr.&#160;Holmes,” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000148">“else how could you know all that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“Never mind,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000150">laughing;</span>
   <span id="f000151">“it is my business to know things.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Perhaps I have trained myself to see what others overlook.</span>
   <span id="f000153">If not,</span>
   <span id="f000154">why should you come to consult me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“I came to you,</span>
   <span id="f000156">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000157">because I heard of you from Mrs.&#160;Etherege,</span>
   <span id="f000158">whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up for dead.</span>
   <span id="f000159">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000160">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000161">I wish you would do as much for me.</span>
   <span id="f000162">I’m not rich,</span>
   <span id="f000163">but still I have a hundred a year in my own right,</span>
   <span id="f000164">besides the little that I make by the machine,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and I would give it all to know what has become of Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?” asked Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000167">with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">Again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of Miss Mary Sutherland.</span>
   <span id="f000169">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000170">I did bang out of the house,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000171">“for it made me angry to see the easy way in which Mr.&#160;Windibank – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000172">my father – took it all.</span>
   <span id="f000173">He would not go to the police,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and he would not go to you,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and so at last,</span>
   <span id="f000176">as he would do nothing and kept on saying that there was no harm done,</span>
   <span id="f000177">it made me mad,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and I just on with my things and came right away to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“Your father,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000180">“your stepfather,</span>
   <span id="f000181">surely,</span>
   <span id="f000182">since the name is different.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000184">my stepfather.</span>
   <span id="f000185">I call him father,</span>
   <span id="f000186">though it sounds funny,</span>
   <span id="f000187">too,</span>
   <span id="f000188">for he is only five years and two months older than myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“And your mother is alive?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000191">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000192">mother is alive and well.</span>
   <span id="f000193">I wasn’t best pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000194">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000195">when she married again so soon after father’s death,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and a man who was nearly fifteen years younger than herself.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Father was a plumber in the Tottenham Court Road,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and he left a tidy business behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000199">which mother carried on with Mr.&#160;Hardy,</span>
   <span id="f000200">the foreman;</span>
   <span id="f000201">but when Mr.&#160;Windibank came he made her sell the business,</span>
   <span id="f000202">for he was very superior,</span>
   <span id="f000203">being a traveller in wines.</span>
   <span id="f000204">They got 4700 pounds for the goodwill and interest,</span>
   <span id="f000205">which wasn’t near as much as father could have got if he had been alive.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this rambling and inconsequential narrative,</span>
   <span id="f000207">but,</span>
   <span id="f000208">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000209">he had listened with the greatest concentration of attention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“Your own little income,” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000211">“does it come out of the business?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000213">no,</span>
   <span id="f000214">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000215">It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle Ned in Auckland.</span>
   <span id="f000216">It is in New Zealand stock,</span>
   <span id="f000217">paying 4 1/2 per cent.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Two thousand five hundred pounds was the amount,</span>
   <span id="f000219">but I can only touch the interest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">“You interest me extremely,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000221">“And since you draw so large a sum as a hundred a year,</span>
   <span id="f000222">with what you earn into the bargain,</span>
   <span id="f000223">you no doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way.</span>
   <span id="f000224">I believe that a single lady can get on very nicely upon an income of about 60 pounds.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“I could do with much less than that,</span>
   <span id="f000226">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000227">but you understand that as long as I live at home I don’t wish to be a burden to them,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and so they have the use of the money just while I am staying with them.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000230">that is only just for the time.</span>
   <span id="f000231">Mr.&#160;Windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it over to mother,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and I find that I can do pretty well with what I earn at typewriting.</span>
   <span id="f000233">It brings me twopence a sheet,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and I can often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“You have made your position very clear to me,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000236">“This is my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000237">Dr.&#160;Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000238">before whom you can speak as freely as before myself.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Kindly tell us now all about your connection with Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">A flush stole over Miss Sutherland’s face,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and she picked nervously at the fringe of her jacket.</span>
   <span id="f000242">“I met him first at the gasfitters’ ball,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000243">“They used to send father tickets when he was alive,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and then afterwards they remembered us,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and sent them to mother.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Mr.&#160;Windibank did not wish us to go.</span>
   <span id="f000247">He never did wish us to go anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000248">He would get quite mad if I wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat.</span>
   <span id="f000249">But this time I was set on going,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and I would go;</span>
   <span id="f000251">for what right had he to prevent?</span>
   <span id="f000252">He said the folk were not fit for us to know,</span>
   <span id="f000253">when all father’s friends were to be there.</span>
   <span id="f000254">And he said that I had nothing fit to wear,</span>
   <span id="f000255">when I had my purple plush that I had never so much as taken out of the drawer.</span>
   <span id="f000256">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000257">when nothing else would do,</span>
   <span id="f000258">he went off to France upon the business of the firm,</span>
   <span id="f000259">but we went,</span>
   <span id="f000260">mother and I,</span>
   <span id="f000261">with Mr.&#160;Hardy,</span>
   <span id="f000262">who used to be our foreman,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and it was there I met Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“I suppose,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000265">“that when Mr.&#160;Windibank came back from France he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000267">well,</span>
   <span id="f000268">he was very good about it.</span>
   <span id="f000269">He laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000270">I remember,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and shrugged his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and said there was no use denying anything to a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000273">for she would have her way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“I see.</span>
   <span id="f000275">Then at the gasfitters’ ball you met,</span>
   <span id="f000276">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000277">a gentleman called Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000279">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000280">I met him that night,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and he called next day to ask if we had got home all safe,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and after that we met him – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000283">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000284">I met him twice for walks,</span>
   <span id="f000285">but after that father came back again,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel could not come to the house any more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“No?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000289">you know father didn’t like anything of the sort.</span>
   <span id="f000290">He wouldn’t have any visitors if he could help it,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and he used to say that a woman should be happy in her own family circle.</span>
   <span id="f000292">But then,</span>
   <span id="f000293">as I used to say to mother,</span>
   <span id="f000294">a woman wants her own circle to begin with,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and I had not got mine yet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“But how about Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel?</span>
   <span id="f000297">Did he make no attempt to see you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000299">father was going off to France again in a week,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and Hosmer wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until he had gone.</span>
   <span id="f000301">We could write in the meantime,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and he used to write every day.</span>
   <span id="f000303">I took the letters in in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000304">so there was no need for father to know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000307">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000308">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000309">We were engaged after the first walk that we took.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Hosmer – Mr.&#160;Angel – was a cashier in an office in Leadenhall Street – and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“What office?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“That’s the worst of it,</span>
   <span id="f000313">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000314">I don’t know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“Where did he live,</span>
   <span id="f000316">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“He slept on the premises.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“And you don’t know his address?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“No – except that it was Leadenhall Street.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“Where did you address your letters,</span>
   <span id="f000321">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“To the Leadenhall Street Post Office,</span>
   <span id="f000323">to be left till called for.</span>
   <span id="f000324">He said that if they were sent to the office he would be chaffed by all the other clerks about having letters from a lady,</span>
   <span id="f000325">so I offered to typewrite them,</span>
   <span id="f000326">like he did his,</span>
   <span id="f000327">but he wouldn’t have that,</span>
   <span id="f000328">for he said that when I wrote them they seemed to come from me,</span>
   <span id="f000329">but when they were typewritten he always felt that the machine had come between us.</span>
   <span id="f000330">That will just show you how fond he was of me,</span>
   <span id="f000331">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and the little things that he would think of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“It was most suggestive,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000334">“It has long been an axiom of mine that the little things are infinitely the most important.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Can you remember any other little things about Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“He was a very shy man,</span>
   <span id="f000337">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000338">He would rather walk with me in the evening than in the daylight,</span>
   <span id="f000339">for he said that he hated to be conspicuous.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Very retiring and gentlemanly he was.</span>
   <span id="f000341">Even his voice was gentle.</span>
   <span id="f000342">He’d had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young,</span>
   <span id="f000343">he told me,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and it had left him with a weak throat,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and a hesitating,</span>
   <span id="f000346">whispering fashion of speech.</span>
   <span id="f000347">He was always well dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000348">very neat and plain,</span>
   <span id="f000349">but his eyes were weak,</span>
   <span id="f000350">just as mine are,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and he wore tinted glasses against the glare.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and what happened when Mr.&#160;Windibank,</span>
   <span id="f000354">your stepfather,</span>
   <span id="f000355">returned to France?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should marry before father came back.</span>
   <span id="f000357">He was in dreadful earnest and made me swear,</span>
   <span id="f000358">with my hands on the Testament,</span>
   <span id="f000359">that whatever happened I would always be true to him.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Mother said he was quite right to make me swear,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and that it was a sign of his passion.</span>
   <span id="f000362">Mother was all in his favour from the first and was even fonder of him than I was.</span>
   <span id="f000363">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000364">when they talked of marrying within the week,</span>
   <span id="f000365">I began to ask about father;</span>
   <span id="f000366">but they both said never to mind about father,</span>
   <span id="f000367">but just to tell him afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and mother said she would make it all right with him.</span>
   <span id="f000369">I didn’t quite like that,</span>
   <span id="f000370">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000371">It seemed funny that I should ask his leave,</span>
   <span id="f000372">as he was only a few years older than me;</span>
   <span id="f000373">but I didn’t want to do anything on the sly,</span>
   <span id="f000374">so I wrote to father at Bordeaux,</span>
   <span id="f000375">where the company has its French offices,</span>
   <span id="f000376">but the letter came back to me on the very morning of the wedding.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“It missed him,</span>
   <span id="f000378">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000380">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000381">for he had started to England just before it arrived.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000383">that was unfortunate.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Your wedding was arranged,</span>
   <span id="f000385">then,</span>
   <span id="f000386">for the Friday.</span>
   <span id="f000387">Was it to be in church?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000389">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000390">but very quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000391">It was to be at St.&#160;Saviour’s,</span>
   <span id="f000392">near King’s Cross,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St.&#160;Pancras Hotel.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Hosmer came for us in a hansom,</span>
   <span id="f000395">but as there were two of us he put us both into it and stepped himself into a four-wheeler,</span>
   <span id="f000396">which happened to be the only other cab in the street.</span>
   <span id="f000397">We got to the church first,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and when the four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to step out,</span>
   <span id="f000399">but he never did,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and when the cabman got down from the box and looked there was no one there!</span>
   <span id="f000401">The cabman said that he could not imagine what had become of him,</span>
   <span id="f000402">for he had seen him get in with his own eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000403">That was last Friday,</span>
   <span id="f000404">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and I have never seen or heard anything since then to throw any light upon what became of him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“It seems to me that you have been very shamefully treated,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000408">no,</span>
   <span id="f000409">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000410">He was too good and kind to leave me so.</span>
   <span id="f000411">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000412">all the morning he was saying to me that,</span>
   <span id="f000413">whatever happened,</span>
   <span id="f000414">I was to be true;</span>
   <span id="f000415">and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us,</span>
   <span id="f000416">I was always to remember that I was pledged to him,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and that he would claim his pledge sooner or later.</span>
   <span id="f000418">It seemed strange talk for a wedding-morning,</span>
   <span id="f000419">but what has happened since gives a meaning to it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000420">“Most certainly it does.</span>
   <span id="f000421">Your own opinion is,</span>
   <span id="f000422">then,</span>
   <span id="f000423">that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000425">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000426">I believe that he foresaw some danger,</span>
   <span id="f000427">or else he would not have talked so.</span>
   <span id="f000428">And then I think that what he foresaw happened.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">“But you have no notion as to what it could have been?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">“None.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">“One more question.</span>
   <span id="f000432">How did your mother take the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“She was angry,</span>
   <span id="f000434">and said that I was never to speak of the matter again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">“And your father?</span>
   <span id="f000436">Did you tell him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000438">and he seemed to think,</span>
   <span id="f000439">with me,</span>
   <span id="f000440">that something had happened,</span>
   <span id="f000441">and that I should hear of Hosmer again.</span>
   <span id="f000442">As he said,</span>
   <span id="f000443">what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and then leaving me?</span>
   <span id="f000445">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000446">if he had borrowed my money,</span>
   <span id="f000447">or if he had married me and got my money settled on him,</span>
   <span id="f000448">there might be some reason,</span>
   <span id="f000449">but Hosmer was very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of mine.</span>
   <span id="f000450">And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000451">what could have happened?</span>
   <span id="f000452">And why could he not write?</span>
   <span id="f000453">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000454">it drives me half-mad to think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and I can’t sleep a wink at night.” She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob heavily into it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“I shall glance into the case for you,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000457">rising,</span>
   <span id="f000458">“and I have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Let the weight of the matter rest upon me now,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and do not let your mind dwell upon it further.</span>
   <span id="f000461">Above all,</span>
   <span id="f000462">try to let Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel vanish from your memory,</span>
   <span id="f000463">as he has done from your life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">“Then you don’t think I’ll see him again?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“I fear not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">“Then what has happened to him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“You will leave that question in my hands.</span>
   <span id="f000468">I should like an accurate description of him and any letters of his which you can spare.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“I advertised for him in last Saturday’s Chronicle,” said she.</span>
   <span id="f000470">“Here is the slip and here are four letters from him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">“Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000472">And your address?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000474">31 Lyon Place,</span>
   <span id="f000475">Camberwell.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">“Mr.&#160;Angel’s address you never had,</span>
   <span id="f000477">I understand.</span>
   <span id="f000478">Where is your father’s place of business?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">“He travels for Westhouse &amp;</span>
   <span id="f000480">Marbank,</span>
   <span id="f000481">the great claret importers of Fenchurch Street.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">“Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000483">You have made your statement very clearly.</span>
   <span id="f000484">You will leave the papers here,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and remember the advice which I have given you.</span>
   <span id="f000486">Let the whole incident be a sealed book,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and do not allow it to affect your life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“You are very kind,</span>
   <span id="f000489">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000490">but I cannot do that.</span>
   <span id="f000491">I shall be true to Hosmer.</span>
   <span id="f000492">He shall find me ready when he comes back.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000493">For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face,</span>
   <span id="f000494">there was something noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect.</span>
   <span id="f000495">She laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way,</span>
   <span id="f000496">with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still pressed together,</span>
   <span id="f000498">his legs stretched out in front of him,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and his gaze directed upward to the ceiling.</span>
   <span id="f000500">Then he took down from the rack the old and oily clay pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000501">which was to him as a counsellor,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and,</span>
   <span id="f000503">having lit it,</span>
   <span id="f000504">he leaned back in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000505">with the thick blue cloud-wreaths spinning up from him,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and a look of infinite languor in his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">“Quite an interesting study,</span>
   <span id="f000508">that maiden,” he observed.</span>
   <span id="f000509">“I found her more interesting than her little problem,</span>
   <span id="f000510">which,</span>
   <span id="f000511">by the way,</span>
   <span id="f000512">is rather a trite one.</span>
   <span id="f000513">You will find parallel cases,</span>
   <span id="f000514">if you consult my index,</span>
   <span id="f000515">in Andover in ’77,</span>
   <span id="f000516">and there was something of the sort at The Hague last year.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Old as is the idea,</span>
   <span id="f000518">however,</span>
   <span id="f000519">there were one or two details which were new to me.</span>
   <span id="f000520">But the maiden herself was most instructive.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">“You appeared to read a good deal upon her which was quite invisible to me,” I remarked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">“Not invisible but unnoticed,</span>
   <span id="f000523">Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000524">You did not know where to look,</span>
   <span id="f000525">and so you missed all that was important.</span>
   <span id="f000526">I can never bring you to realise the importance of sleeves,</span>
   <span id="f000527">the suggestiveness of thumb-nails,</span>
   <span id="f000528">or the great issues that may hang from a boot-lace.</span>
   <span id="f000529">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000530">what did you gather from that woman’s appearance?</span>
   <span id="f000531">Describe it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000533">she had a slate-coloured,</span>
   <span id="f000534">broad-brimmed straw hat,</span>
   <span id="f000535">with a feather of a brickish red.</span>
   <span id="f000536">Her jacket was black,</span>
   <span id="f000537">with black beads sewn upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and a fringe of little black jet ornaments.</span>
   <span id="f000539">Her dress was brown,</span>
   <span id="f000540">rather darker than coffee colour,</span>
   <span id="f000541">with a little purple plush at the neck and sleeves.</span>
   <span id="f000542">Her gloves were greyish and were worn through at the right forefinger.</span>
   <span id="f000543">Her boots I didn’t observe.</span>
   <span id="f000544">She had small round,</span>
   <span id="f000545">hanging gold earrings,</span>
   <span id="f000546">and a general air of being fairly well-to-do in a vulgar,</span>
   <span id="f000547">comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000548">easy-going way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">“’Pon my word,</span>
   <span id="f000551">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000552">you are coming along wonderfully.</span>
   <span id="f000553">You have really done very well indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000554">It is true that you have missed everything of importance,</span>
   <span id="f000555">but you have hit upon the method,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and you have a quick eye for colour.</span>
   <span id="f000557">Never trust to general impressions,</span>
   <span id="f000558">my boy,</span>
   <span id="f000559">but concentrate yourself upon details.</span>
   <span id="f000560">My first glance is always at a woman’s sleeve.</span>
   <span id="f000561">In a man it is perhaps better first to take the knee of the trouser.</span>
   <span id="f000562">As you observe,</span>
   <span id="f000563">this woman had plush upon her sleeves,</span>
   <span id="f000564">which is a most useful material for showing traces.</span>
   <span id="f000565">The double line a little above the wrist,</span>
   <span id="f000566">where the typewritist presses against the table,</span>
   <span id="f000567">was beautifully defined.</span>
   <span id="f000568">The sewing-machine,</span>
   <span id="f000569">of the hand type,</span>
   <span id="f000570">leaves a similar mark,</span>
   <span id="f000571">but only on the left arm,</span>
   <span id="f000572">and on the side of it farthest from the thumb,</span>
   <span id="f000573">instead of being right across the broadest part,</span>
   <span id="f000574">as this was.</span>
   <span id="f000575">I then glanced at her face,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and,</span>
   <span id="f000577">observing the dint of a pince-nez at either side of her nose,</span>
   <span id="f000578">I ventured a remark upon short sight and typewriting,</span>
   <span id="f000579">which seemed to surprise her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“It surprised me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000582">surely,</span>
   <span id="f000583">it was obvious.</span>
   <span id="f000584">I was then much surprised and interested on glancing down to observe that,</span>
   <span id="f000585">though the boots which she was wearing were not unlike each other,</span>
   <span id="f000586">they were really odd ones;</span>
   <span id="f000587">the one having a slightly decorated toe-cap,</span>
   <span id="f000588">and the other a plain one.</span>
   <span id="f000589">One was buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five,</span>
   <span id="f000590">and the other at the first,</span>
   <span id="f000591">third,</span>
   <span id="f000592">and fifth.</span>
   <span id="f000593">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000594">when you see that a young lady,</span>
   <span id="f000595">otherwise neatly dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000596">has come away from home with odd boots,</span>
   <span id="f000597">half-buttoned,</span>
   <span id="f000598">it is no great deduction to say that she came away in a hurry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">“And what else?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000600">keenly interested,</span>
   <span id="f000601">as I always was,</span>
   <span id="f000602">by my friend’s incisive reasoning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">“I noted,</span>
   <span id="f000604">in passing,</span>
   <span id="f000605">that she had written a note before leaving home but after being fully dressed.</span>
   <span id="f000606">You observed that her right glove was torn at the forefinger,</span>
   <span id="f000607">but you did not apparently see that both glove and finger were stained with violet ink.</span>
   <span id="f000608">She had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep.</span>
   <span id="f000609">It must have been this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000610">or the mark would not remain clear upon the finger.</span>
   <span id="f000611">All this is amusing,</span>
   <span id="f000612">though rather elementary,</span>
   <span id="f000613">but I must go back to business,</span>
   <span id="f000614">Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000615">Would you mind reading me the advertised description of Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">I held the little printed slip to the light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">“Missing,” it said,</span>
   <span id="f000618">“on the morning of the fourteenth,</span>
   <span id="f000619">a gentleman named Hosmer Angel.</span>
   <span id="f000620">About five ft.</span>
   <span id="f000621">seven in.</span>
   <span id="f000622">in height;</span>
   <span id="f000623">strongly built,</span>
   <span id="f000624">sallow complexion,</span>
   <span id="f000625">black hair,</span>
   <span id="f000626">a little bald in the centre,</span>
   <span id="f000627">bushy,</span>
   <span id="f000628">black side-whiskers and moustache;</span>
   <span id="f000629">tinted glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000630">slight infirmity of speech.</span>
   <span id="f000631">Was dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000632">when last seen,</span>
   <span id="f000633">in black frock-coat faced with silk,</span>
   <span id="f000634">black waistcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000635">gold Albert chain,</span>
   <span id="f000636">and grey Harris tweed trousers,</span>
   <span id="f000637">with brown gaiters over elastic-sided boots.</span>
   <span id="f000638">Known to have been employed in an office in Leadenhall Street.</span>
   <span id="f000639">Anybody bringing – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">“That will do,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000641">“As to the letters,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000642">glancing over them,</span>
   <span id="f000643">“they are very commonplace.</span>
   <span id="f000644">Absolutely no clue in them to Mr.&#160;Angel,</span>
   <span id="f000645">save that he quotes Balzac once.</span>
   <span id="f000646">There is one remarkable point,</span>
   <span id="f000647">however,</span>
   <span id="f000648">which will no doubt strike you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“They are typewritten,” I remarked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">“Not only that,</span>
   <span id="f000651">but the signature is typewritten.</span>
   <span id="f000652">Look at the neat little ’Hosmer Angel’ at the bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000653">There is a date,</span>
   <span id="f000654">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000655">but no superscription except Leadenhall Street,</span>
   <span id="f000656">which is rather vague.</span>
   <span id="f000657">The point about the signature is very suggestive – in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000658">we may call it conclusive.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">“Of what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000660">“My dear fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000661">is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">“I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000664">that was not the point.</span>
   <span id="f000665">However,</span>
   <span id="f000666">I shall write two letters,</span>
   <span id="f000667">which should settle the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000668">One is to a firm in the City,</span>
   <span id="f000669">the other is to the young lady’s stepfather,</span>
   <span id="f000670">Mr.&#160;Windibank,</span>
   <span id="f000671">asking him whether he could meet us here at six o’clock tomorrow evening.</span>
   <span id="f000672">It is just as well that we should do business with the male relatives.</span>
   <span id="f000673">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000674">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000675">we can do nothing until the answers to those letters come,</span>
   <span id="f000676">so we may put our little problem upon the shelf for the interim.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">I had had so many reasons to believe in my friend’s subtle powers of reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that I felt that he must have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which he treated the singular mystery which he had been called upon to fathom.</span>
   <span id="f000678">Once only had I known him to fail,</span>
   <span id="f000679">in the case of the King of Bohemia and of the Irene Adler photograph;</span>
   <span id="f000680">but when I looked back to the weird business of the Sign of Four,</span>
   <span id="f000681">and the extraordinary circumstances connected with the Study in Scarlet,</span>
   <span id="f000682">I felt that it would be a strange tangle indeed which he could not unravel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">I left him then,</span>
   <span id="f000684">still puffing at his black clay pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000685">with the conviction that when I came again on the next evening I would find that he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity of the disappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary Sutherland.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">A professional case of great gravity was engaging my own attention at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000687">and the whole of next day I was busy at the bedside of the sufferer.</span>
   <span id="f000688">It was not until close upon six o’clock that I found myself free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to Baker Street,</span>
   <span id="f000689">half afraid that I might be too late to assist at the dénouement of the little mystery.</span>
   <span id="f000690">I found Sherlock Holmes alone,</span>
   <span id="f000691">however,</span>
   <span id="f000692">half asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000693">with his long,</span>
   <span id="f000694">thin form curled up in the recesses of his armchair.</span>
   <span id="f000695">A formidable array of bottles and test-tubes,</span>
   <span id="f000696">with the pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid,</span>
   <span id="f000697">told me that he had spent his day in the chemical work which was so dear to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000699">have you solved it?” I asked as I entered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000700">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000701">It was the bisulphate of baryta.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000703">no,</span>
   <span id="f000704">the mystery!” I cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000705">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000706">that!</span>
   <span id="f000707">I thought of the salt that I have been working upon.</span>
   <span id="f000708">There was never any mystery in the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000709">though,</span>
   <span id="f000710">as I said yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000711">some of the details are of interest.</span>
   <span id="f000712">The only drawback is that there is no law,</span>
   <span id="f000713">I fear,</span>
   <span id="f000714">that can touch the scoundrel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Who was he,</span>
   <span id="f000716">then,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and what was his object in deserting Miss Sutherland?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000718">The question was hardly out of my mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000719">and Holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply,</span>
   <span id="f000720">when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">“This is the girl’s stepfather,</span>
   <span id="f000722">Mr.&#160;James Windibank,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000723">“He has written to me to say that he would be here at six.</span>
   <span id="f000724">Come in!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">The man who entered was a sturdy,</span>
   <span id="f000726">middle-sized fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000727">some thirty years of age,</span>
   <span id="f000728">clean-shaven,</span>
   <span id="f000729">and sallow-skinned,</span>
   <span id="f000730">with a bland,</span>
   <span id="f000731">insinuating manner,</span>
   <span id="f000732">and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating grey eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000733">He shot a questioning glance at each of us,</span>
   <span id="f000734">placed his shiny top-hat upon the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000735">and with a slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000736">“Good-evening,</span>
   <span id="f000737">Mr.&#160;James Windibank,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000738">“I think that this typewritten letter is from you,</span>
   <span id="f000739">in which you made an appointment with me for six o’clock?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000741">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000742">I am afraid that I am a little late,</span>
   <span id="f000743">but I am not quite my own master,</span>
   <span id="f000744">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000745">I am sorry that Miss Sutherland has troubled you about this little matter,</span>
   <span id="f000746">for I think it is far better not to wash linen of the sort in public.</span>
   <span id="f000747">It was quite against my wishes that she came,</span>
   <span id="f000748">but she is a very excitable,</span>
   <span id="f000749">impulsive girl,</span>
   <span id="f000750">as you may have noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000751">and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind on a point.</span>
   <span id="f000752">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000753">I did not mind you so much,</span>
   <span id="f000754">as you are not connected with the official police,</span>
   <span id="f000755">but it is not pleasant to have a family misfortune like this noised abroad.</span>
   <span id="f000756">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000757">it is a useless expense,</span>
   <span id="f000758">for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000759">“On the contrary,” said Holmes quietly;</span>
   <span id="f000760">“I have every reason to believe that I will succeed in discovering Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000761">Mr.&#160;Windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves.</span>
   <span id="f000762">“I am delighted to hear it,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000763">“It is a curious thing,” remarked Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000764">“that a typewriter has really quite as much individuality as a man’s handwriting.</span>
   <span id="f000765">Unless they are quite new,</span>
   <span id="f000766">no two of them write exactly alike.</span>
   <span id="f000767">Some letters get more worn than others,</span>
   <span id="f000768">and some wear only on one side.</span>
   <span id="f000769">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000770">you remark in this note of yours,</span>
   <span id="f000771">Mr.&#160;Windibank,</span>
   <span id="f000772">that in every case there is some little slurring over of the ’e,’ and a slight defect in the tail of the ’r.’ There are fourteen other characteristics,</span>
   <span id="f000773">but those are the more obvious.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000774">“We do all our correspondence with this machine at the office,</span>
   <span id="f000775">and no doubt it is a little worn,” our visitor answered,</span>
   <span id="f000776">glancing keenly at Holmes with his bright little eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000777">“And now I will show you what is really a very interesting study,</span>
   <span id="f000778">Mr.&#160;Windibank,” Holmes continued.</span>
   <span id="f000779">“I think of writing another little monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to crime.</span>
   <span id="f000780">It is a subject to which I have devoted some little attention.</span>
   <span id="f000781">I have here four letters which purport to come from the missing man.</span>
   <span id="f000782">They are all typewritten.</span>
   <span id="f000783">In each case,</span>
   <span id="f000784">not only are the ’e’s’ slurred and the ’r’s’ tailless,</span>
   <span id="f000785">but you will observe,</span>
   <span id="f000786">if you care to use my magnifying lens,</span>
   <span id="f000787">that the fourteen other characteristics to which I have alluded are there as well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000788">Mr.&#160;Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat.</span>
   <span id="f000789">“I cannot waste time over this sort of fantastic talk,</span>
   <span id="f000790">Mr.&#160;Holmes,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000791">“If you can catch the man,</span>
   <span id="f000792">catch him,</span>
   <span id="f000793">and let me know when you have done it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">“Certainly,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000795">stepping over and turning the key in the door.</span>
   <span id="f000796">“I let you know,</span>
   <span id="f000797">then,</span>
   <span id="f000798">that I have caught him!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">“What!</span>
   <span id="f000800">where?” shouted Mr.&#160;Windibank,</span>
   <span id="f000801">turning white to his lips and glancing about him like a rat in a trap.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000803">it won’t do – really it won’t,” said Holmes suavely.</span>
   <span id="f000804">“There is no possible getting out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000805">Mr.&#160;Windibank.</span>
   <span id="f000806">It is quite too transparent,</span>
   <span id="f000807">and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible for me to solve so simple a question.</span>
   <span id="f000808">That’s right!</span>
   <span id="f000809">Sit down and let us talk it over.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">Our visitor collapsed into a chair,</span>
   <span id="f000811">with a ghastly face and a glitter of moisture on his brow.</span>
   <span id="f000812">“It – it’s not actionable,” he stammered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">“I am very much afraid that it is not.</span>
   <span id="f000814">But between ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000815">Windibank,</span>
   <span id="f000816">it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty way as ever came before me.</span>
   <span id="f000817">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000818">let me just run over the course of events,</span>
   <span id="f000819">and you will contradict me if I go wrong.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">The man sat huddled up in his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000821">with his head sunk upon his breast,</span>
   <span id="f000822">like one who is utterly crushed.</span>
   <span id="f000823">Holmes stuck his feet up on the corner of the mantelpiece and,</span>
   <span id="f000824">leaning back with his hands in his pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000825">began talking,</span>
   <span id="f000826">rather to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000827">as it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000828">than to us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">“The man married a woman very much older than himself for her money,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000830">“and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long as she lived with them.</span>
   <span id="f000831">It was a considerable sum,</span>
   <span id="f000832">for people in their position,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and the loss of it would have made a serious difference.</span>
   <span id="f000834">It was worth an effort to preserve it.</span>
   <span id="f000835">The daughter was of a good,</span>
   <span id="f000836">amiable disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000837">but affectionate and warm-hearted in her ways,</span>
   <span id="f000838">so that it was evident that with her fair personal advantages,</span>
   <span id="f000839">and her little income,</span>
   <span id="f000840">she would not be allowed to remain single long.</span>
   <span id="f000841">Now her marriage would mean,</span>
   <span id="f000842">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000843">the loss of a hundred a year,</span>
   <span id="f000844">so what does her stepfather do to prevent it?</span>
   <span id="f000845">He takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age.</span>
   <span id="f000846">But soon he found that that would not answer forever.</span>
   <span id="f000847">She became restive,</span>
   <span id="f000848">insisted upon her rights,</span>
   <span id="f000849">and finally announced her positive intention of going to a certain ball.</span>
   <span id="f000850">What does her clever stepfather do then?</span>
   <span id="f000851">He conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart.</span>
   <span id="f000852">With the connivance and assistance of his wife he disguised himself,</span>
   <span id="f000853">covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000854">masked the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers,</span>
   <span id="f000855">sunk that clear voice into an insinuating whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000856">and doubly secure on account of the girl’s short sight,</span>
   <span id="f000857">he appears as Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel,</span>
   <span id="f000858">and keeps off other lovers by making love himself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000859">“It was only a joke at first,” groaned our visitor.</span>
   <span id="f000860">“We never thought that she would have been so carried away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000861">“Very likely not.</span>
   <span id="f000862">However that may be,</span>
   <span id="f000863">the young lady was very decidedly carried away,</span>
   <span id="f000864">and,</span>
   <span id="f000865">having quite made up her mind that her stepfather was in France,</span>
   <span id="f000866">the suspicion of treachery never for an instant entered her mind.</span>
   <span id="f000867">She was flattered by the gentleman’s attentions,</span>
   <span id="f000868">and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed admiration of her mother.</span>
   <span id="f000869">Then Mr.&#160;Angel began to call,</span>
   <span id="f000870">for it was obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a real effect were to be produced.</span>
   <span id="f000871">There were meetings,</span>
   <span id="f000872">and an engagement,</span>
   <span id="f000873">which would finally secure the girl’s affections from turning towards anyone else.</span>
   <span id="f000874">But the deception could not be kept up forever.</span>
   <span id="f000875">These pretended journeys to France were rather cumbrous.</span>
   <span id="f000876">The thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such a dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon the young lady’s mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor for some time to come.</span>
   <span id="f000877">Hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a Testament,</span>
   <span id="f000878">and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something happening on the very morning of the wedding.</span>
   <span id="f000879">James Windibank wished Miss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel,</span>
   <span id="f000880">and so uncertain as to his fate,</span>
   <span id="f000881">that for ten years to come,</span>
   <span id="f000882">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000883">she would not listen to another man.</span>
   <span id="f000884">As far as the church door he brought her,</span>
   <span id="f000885">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000886">as he could go no farther,</span>
   <span id="f000887">he conveniently vanished away by the old trick of stepping in at one door of a four-wheeler and out at the other.</span>
   <span id="f000888">I think that was the chain of events,</span>
   <span id="f000889">Mr.&#160;Windibank!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while Holmes had been talking,</span>
   <span id="f000891">and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his pale face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000892">“It may be so,</span>
   <span id="f000893">or it may not,</span>
   <span id="f000894">Mr.&#160;Holmes,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000895">“but if you are so very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is you who are breaking the law now,</span>
   <span id="f000896">and not me.</span>
   <span id="f000897">I have done nothing actionable from the first,</span>
   <span id="f000898">but as long as you keep that door locked you lay yourself open to an action for assault and illegal constraint.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000899">“The law cannot,</span>
   <span id="f000900">as you say,</span>
   <span id="f000901">touch you,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000902">unlocking and throwing open the door,</span>
   <span id="f000903">“yet there never was a man who deserved punishment more.</span>
   <span id="f000904">If the young lady has a brother or a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000905">he ought to lay a whip across your shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000906">By Jove!” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000907">flushing up at the sight of the bitter sneer upon the man’s face,</span>
   <span id="f000908">“it is not part of my duties to my client,</span>
   <span id="f000909">but here’s a hunting crop handy,</span>
   <span id="f000910">and I think I shall just treat myself to – ” He took two swift steps to the whip,</span>
   <span id="f000911">but before he could grasp it there was a wild clatter of steps upon the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000912">the heavy hall door banged,</span>
   <span id="f000913">and from the window we could see Mr.&#160;James Windibank running at the top of his speed down the road.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000914">“There’s a cold-blooded scoundrel!” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000915">laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000916">as he threw himself down into his chair once more.</span>
   <span id="f000917">“That fellow will rise from crime to crime until he does something very bad,</span>
   <span id="f000918">and ends on a gallows.</span>
   <span id="f000919">The case has,</span>
   <span id="f000920">in some respects,</span>
   <span id="f000921">been not entirely devoid of interest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000922">“I cannot now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning,” I remarked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000923">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000924">of course it was obvious from the first that this Mr.&#160;Hosmer Angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct,</span>
   <span id="f000925">and it was equally clear that the only man who really profited by the incident,</span>
   <span id="f000926">as far as we could see,</span>
   <span id="f000927">was the stepfather.</span>
   <span id="f000928">Then the fact that the two men were never together,</span>
   <span id="f000929">but that the one always appeared when the other was away,</span>
   <span id="f000930">was suggestive.</span>
   <span id="f000931">So were the tinted spectacles and the curious voice,</span>
   <span id="f000932">which both hinted at a disguise,</span>
   <span id="f000933">as did the bushy whiskers.</span>
   <span id="f000934">My suspicions were all confirmed by his peculiar action in typewriting his signature,</span>
   <span id="f000935">which,</span>
   <span id="f000936">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000937">inferred that his handwriting was so familiar to her that she would recognise even the smallest sample of it.</span>
   <span id="f000938">You see all these isolated facts,</span>
   <span id="f000939">together with many minor ones,</span>
   <span id="f000940">all pointed in the same direction.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">“And how did you verify them?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">“Having once spotted my man,</span>
   <span id="f000943">it was easy to get corroboration.</span>
   <span id="f000944">I knew the firm for which this man worked.</span>
   <span id="f000945">Having taken the printed description.</span>
   <span id="f000946">I eliminated everything from it which could be the result of a disguise – the whiskers,</span>
   <span id="f000947">the glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000948">the voice,</span>
   <span id="f000949">and I sent it to the firm,</span>
   <span id="f000950">with a request that they would inform me whether it answered to the description of any of their travellers.</span>
   <span id="f000951">I had already noticed the peculiarities of the typewriter,</span>
   <span id="f000952">and I wrote to the man himself at his business address asking him if he would come here.</span>
   <span id="f000953">As I expected,</span>
   <span id="f000954">his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but characteristic defects.</span>
   <span id="f000955">The same post brought me a letter from Westhouse &amp;</span>
   <span id="f000956">Marbank,</span>
   <span id="f000957">of Fenchurch Street,</span>
   <span id="f000958">to say that the description tallied in every respect with that of their employé,</span>
   <span id="f000959">James Windibank.</span>
   <span id="f000960">Voilà tout!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000961">“And Miss Sutherland?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000962">“If I tell her she will not believe me.</span>
   <span id="f000963">You may remember the old Persian saying,</span>
   <span id="f000964">’There is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub,</span>
   <span id="f000965">and danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman.’ There is as much sense in Hafiz as in Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and as much knowledge of the world.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

