<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter I</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">The Baltimore Station was hot and crowded,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">so Lois was forced to stand by the telegraph desk for interminable,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">sticky seconds while a clerk with big front teeth counted and recounted a large lady’s day message,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">to determine whether it contained the innocuous forty-nine words or the fatal fifty-one.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000006">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">waiting,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">decided she wasn’t quite sure of the address,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">so she took the letter out of her bag and ran over it again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">«<em>Darling,</em>» – IT BEGAN –</span></p> 
   <blockquote>
    <p><span id="f000011">I understand and I’m happier than life ever meant me to be.</span> 
    <span id="f000012">If I could give you the things you’ve always been in tune with –</span> 
    <span id="f000013">but I can’t Lois;</span> 
    <span id="f000014">we can’t marry and we can’t lose each other and let all this glorious love end in nothing.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000015">Until your letter came,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">dear,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">I’d been sitting here in the half dark and thinking where I could go and ever forget you;</span> 
    <span id="f000018">abroad,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">perhaps,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">to drift through Italy or Spain and dream away the pain of having lost you where the crumbling ruins of older,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">mellower civilizations would mirror only the desolation of my heart –</span> 
    <span id="f000022">and then your letter came.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000023">Sweetest,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">bravest girl,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">if you’ll wire me I’ll meet you in Wilmington –</span> 
    <span id="f000026">till then I’ll be here just waiting and hoping for every long dream of you to come true.</span></p> 
   <p class="signature"><span id="f000027">Howard</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000028">She had read the letter so many times that she knew it word by word,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">yet it still startled her.</span> 
    <span id="f000030">In it she found many faint reflections of the man who wrote it –</span> 
    <span id="f000031">the mingled sweetness and sadness in his dark eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">the furtive,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">restless excitement she felt sometimes when he talked to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">his dreamy sensuousness that lulled her mind to sleep.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">Lois was nineteen and very romantic and curious and courageous.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000036">The large lady and the clerk having compromised on fifty words,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">Lois took a blank and wrote her telegram.</span> 
    <span id="f000038">And there were no overtones to the finality of her decision.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000039">It’s just destiny –</span> 
    <span id="f000040">she thought –</span> 
    <span id="f000041">it’s just the way things work out in this damn world.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">If cowardice is all that’s been holding me back there won’t be any more holding back.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">So we’ll just let things take their course and never be sorry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">The clerk scanned her telegram:</span></p> 
   <blockquote class="letter">
   <p><span id="f000045">Arrived Baltimore today spend day with my brother meet me Wilmington three P.M.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">Wednesday Love.</span></p> 
   <p class="signature"><span id="f000047">Lois</span></p> 
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000048">«Fifty-four cents,» said the clerk admiringly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">And never be sorry –</span> 
    <span id="f000050">thought Lois –</span> 
    <span id="f000051">and never be sorry—</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>