<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter II</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Trees filtering light onto dapple grass.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">Trees like tall,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">languid ladies with feather fans coquetting airily with the ugly roof of the monastery.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">Trees like butlers,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">bending courteously over placid walks and paths.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">Trees,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">trees over the hills on either side and scattering out in clumps and lines and woods all through eastern Maryland,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">delicate lace on the hems of many yellow fields,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">dark opaque backgrounds for flowered bushes or wild climbing garden.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000011">Some of the trees were very gay and young,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">but the monastery trees were older than the monastery which,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">by true monastic standards,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">wasn’t very old at all.</span> 
    <span id="f000015">And,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">as a matter of fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">it wasn’t technically called a monastery,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">but only a seminary;</span> 
    <span id="f000019">nevertheless it shall be a monastery here despite its Victorian architecture or its Edward VII additions,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">or even its Woodrow Wilsonian,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">patented,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">last-a-century roofing.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000023">Out behind was the farm where half a dozen lay brothers were sweating lustily as they moved with deadly efficiency around the vegetable-gardens.</span> 
    <span id="f000024">To the left,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">behind a row of elms,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">was an informal baseball diamond where three novices were being batted out by a fourth,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">amid great chasings and puffings and blowings.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">And in front as a great mellow bell boomed the half-hour a swarm of black,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">human leaves were blown over the checker-board of paths under the courteous trees.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">Some of these black leaves were very old with cheeks furrowed like the first ripples of a splashed pool.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">Then there was a scattering of middle-aged leaves whose forms when viewed in profile in their revealing gowns were beginning to be faintly unsymmetrical.</span> 
    <span id="f000032">These carried thick volumes of Thomas Aquinas and Henry James and Cardinal Mercier and Immanuel Kant and many bulging note-books filled with lecture data.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000033">But most numerous were the young leaves;</span> 
    <span id="f000034">blond boys of nineteen with very stern,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">conscientious expressions;</span> 
    <span id="f000036">men in the late twenties with a keen self-assurance from having taught out in the world for five years –</span> 
    <span id="f000037">several hundreds of them,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">from city and town and country in Maryland and Pennsylvania and Virginia and West Virginia and Delaware.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000039">There were many Americans and some Irish and some tough Irish and a few French,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">and several Italians and Poles,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">and they walked informally arm in arm with each other in twos and threes or in long rows,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">almost universally distinguished by the straight mouth and the considerable chin –</span> 
    <span id="f000043">for this was the Society of Jesus,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">founded in Spain five hundred years before by a tough-minded soldier who trained men to hold a breach or a salon,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">preach a sermon or write a treaty,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">and do it and not argue …</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000047">Lois got out of a bus into the sunshine down by the outer gate.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">She was nineteen with yellow hair and eyes that people were tactful enough not to call green.</span> 
    <span id="f000049">When men of talent saw her in a street-car they often furtively produced little stub-pencils and backs of envelopes and tried to sum up that profile or the thing that the eyebrows did to her eyes.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">Later they looked at their results and usually tore them up with wondering sighs.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000051">Though Lois was very jauntily attired in an expensively appropriate travelling affair,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">she did not linger to pat out the dust which covered her clothes,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">but started up the central walk with curious glances at either side.</span> 
    <span id="f000054">Her face was very eager and expectant,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">yet she hadn’t at all that glorified expression that girls wear when they arrive for a Senior Prom at Princeton or New Haven;</span> 
    <span id="f000056">still,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">as there were no senior proms here,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">perhaps it didn’t matter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">She was wondering what he would look like,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">whether she’d possibly know him from his picture.</span> 
    <span id="f000061">In the picture,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">which hung over her mother’s bureau at home,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">he seemed very young and hollow-cheeked and rather pitiful,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">with only a well-developed mouth and all ill-fitting probationer’s gown to show that he had already made a momentous decision about his life.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">Of course he had been only nineteen then and now he was thirty-six –</span> 
    <span id="f000066">didn’t look like that at all;</span> 
    <span id="f000067">in recent snap-shots he was much broader and his hair had grown a little thin –</span> 
    <span id="f000068">but the impression of her brother she had always retained was that of the big picture.</span> 
    <span id="f000069">And so she had always been a little sorry for him.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">What a life for a man!</span> 
    <span id="f000071">Seventeen years of preparation and he wasn’t even a priest yet –</span> 
    <span id="f000072">wouldn’t be for another year.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000073">Lois had an idea that this was all going to be rather solemn if she let it be.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">But she was going to give her very best imitation of undiluted sunshine,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">the imitation she could give even when her head was splitting or when her mother had a nervous breakdown or when she was particularly romantic and curious and courageous.</span> 
    <span id="f000076">This brother of hers undoubtedly needed cheering up,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">and he was going to be cheered up,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">whether he liked it or not.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000079">As she drew near the great,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">homely front door she saw a man break suddenly away from a group and,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">pulling up the skirts of his gown,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">run toward her.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">He was smiling,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">she noticed,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">and he looked very big and –</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and reliable.</span> 
    <span id="f000087">She stopped and waited,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">knew that her heart was beating unusually fast.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000089">«Lois!» he cried,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and in a second she was in his arms.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">She was suddenly trembling.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000092">«Lois!» he cried again,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">«why,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">this is wonderful!</span> 
    <span id="f000095">I can’t tell you,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">how MUCH I’ve looked forward to this.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">you’re beautiful!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000101">Lois gasped.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">His voice,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">though restrained,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">was vibrant with energy and that odd sort of enveloping personality she had thought that she only of the family possessed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000105">«I’m mighty glad,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">too –</span> 
    <span id="f000107">Kieth.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000108">She flushed,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">but not unhappily,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">at this first use of his name.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000111">«Lois –</span> 
    <span id="f000112">Lois –</span> 
    <span id="f000113">Lois,» he repeated in wonder.</span> 
    <span id="f000114">«Child,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">we’ll go in here a minute,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">because I want you to meet the rector,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">and then we’ll walk around.</span> 
    <span id="f000118">I have a thousand things to talk to you about.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000119">His voice became graver.</span> 
    <span id="f000120">«How’s mother?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">She looked at him for a moment and then said something that she had not intended to say at all,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">the very sort of thing she had resolved to avoid.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">Kieth –</span> 
    <span id="f000125">she’s –</span> 
    <span id="f000126">she’s getting worse all the time,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">every way.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000128">He nodded slowly as if he understood.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000129">«Nervous,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">well –</span> 
    <span id="f000131">you can tell me about that later.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">Now—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000133">She was in a small study with a large desk,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">saying something to a little,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">jovial,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">white-haired priest who retained her hand for some seconds.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000137">«So this is Lois!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000138">He said it as if he had heard of her for years.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">He entreated her to sit down.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000140">Two other priests arrived enthusiastically and shook hands with her and addressed her as «Kieth’s little sister,» which she found she didn’t mind a bit.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000141">How assured they seemed;</span> 
    <span id="f000142">she had expected a certain shyness,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">reserve at least.</span> 
    <span id="f000144">There were several jokes unintelligible to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">which seemed to delight every one,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">and the little Father Rector referred to the trio of them as «dim old monks,» which she appreciated,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">because of course they weren’t monks at all.</span> 
    <span id="f000148">She had a lightning impression that they were especially fond of Kieth –</span> 
    <span id="f000149">the Father Rector had called him «Kieth» and one of the others had kept a hand on his shoulder all through the conversation.</span> 
    <span id="f000150">Then she was shaking hands again and promising to come back a little later for some ice-cream,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">and smiling and smiling and being rather absurdly happy … she told herself that it was because Kieth was so delighted in showing her off.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000152">Then she and Kieth were strolling along a path,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">arm in arm,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">and he was informing her what an absolute jewel the Father Rector was.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000155">«Lois,» he broke off suddenly,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">«I want to tell you before we go any farther how much it means to me to have you come up here.</span> 
    <span id="f000157">I think it was –</span> 
    <span id="f000158">mighty sweet of you.</span> 
    <span id="f000159">I know what a gay time you’ve been having.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000160">Lois gasped.</span> 
    <span id="f000161">She was not prepared for this.</span> 
    <span id="f000162">At first when she had conceived the plan of taking the hot journey down to Baltimore staying the night with a friend and then coming out to see her brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">she had felt rather consciously virtuous,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">hoped he wouldn’t be priggish or resentful about her not having come before –</span> 
    <span id="f000165">but walking here with him under the trees seemed such a little thing,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">and surprisingly a happy thing.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000167">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">Kieth,» she said quickly,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">«you know I couldn’t have waited a day longer.</span> 
    <span id="f000170">I saw you when I was five,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">but of course I didn’t remember,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">and how could I have gone on without practically ever having seen my only brother?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000173">«It was mighty sweet of you,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">Lois,» he repeated.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000175">Lois blushed –</span> 
    <span id="f000176">he DID have personality.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000177">«I want you to tell me all about yourself,» he said after a pause.</span> 
    <span id="f000178">«Of course I have a general idea what you and mother did in Europe those fourteen years,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">and then we were all so worried,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">when you had pneumonia and couldn’t come down with mother –</span> 
    <span id="f000182">let’s see that was two years ago –</span> 
    <span id="f000183">and then,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">well,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">I’ve seen your name in the papers,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">but it’s all been so unsatisfactory.</span> 
    <span id="f000187">I haven’t known you,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">Lois.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000189">She found herself analyzing his personality as she analyzed the personality of every man she met.</span> 
    <span id="f000190">She wondered if the effect of –</span> 
    <span id="f000191">of intimacy that he gave was bred by his constant repetition of her name.</span> 
    <span id="f000192">He said it as if he loved the word,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">as if it had an inherent meaning to him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000194">«Then you were at school,» he continued.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000195">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">at Farmington.</span> 
    <span id="f000197">Mother wanted me to go to a convent –</span> 
    <span id="f000198">but I didn’t want to.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000199">She cast a side glance at him to see if he would resent this.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000200">But he only nodded slowly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000201">«Had enough convents abroad,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">eh?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000203">«Yes –</span> 
    <span id="f000204">and Kieth,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">convents are different there anyway.</span> 
    <span id="f000206">Here even in the nicest ones there are so many COMMON girls.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000207">He nodded again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000208">«Yes,» he agreed,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">«I suppose there are,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">and I know how you feel about it.</span> 
    <span id="f000211">It grated on me here,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">at first,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">though I wouldn’t say that to any one but you;</span> 
    <span id="f000215">we’re rather sensitive,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">you and I,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">to things like this.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000218">«You mean the men here?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000219">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">some of them of course were fine,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">the sort of men I’d always been thrown with,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">but there were others;</span> 
    <span id="f000223">a man named Regan,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">for instance –</span> 
    <span id="f000225">I hated the fellow,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">and now he’s about the best friend I have.</span> 
    <span id="f000227">A wonderful character,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">Lois;</span> 
    <span id="f000229">you’ll meet him later.</span> 
    <span id="f000230">Sort of man you’d like to have with you in a fight.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000231">Lois was thinking that Kieth was the sort of man she’d like to have with HER in a fight.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000232">«How did you –</span> 
    <span id="f000233">how did you first happen to do it?» she asked,</span> 
    <span id="f000234">rather shyly,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">«to come here,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">I mean.</span> 
    <span id="f000237">Of course mother told me the story about the Pullman car.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000238">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">that—» He looked rather annoyed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000240">«Tell me that.</span> 
    <span id="f000241">I’d like to hear you tell it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000242">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">it’s nothing except what you probably know.</span> 
    <span id="f000244">It was evening and I’d been riding all day and thinking about –</span> 
    <span id="f000245">about a hundred things,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">and then suddenly I had a sense that some one was sitting across from me,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">felt that he’d been there for some time,</span> 
    <span id="f000249">and had a vague idea that he was another traveller.</span> 
    <span id="f000250">All at once he leaned over toward me and I heard a voice say:</span> 
    <span id="f000251">’I want you to be a priest,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">that’s what I want.’ Well I jumped up and cried out,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">’Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000254">my God,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">not that!’ –</span> 
    <span id="f000256">made an idiot of myself before about twenty people;</span> 
    <span id="f000257">you see there wasn’t any one sitting there at all.</span> 
    <span id="f000258">A week after that I went to the Jesuit College in Philadelphia and crawled up the last flight of stairs to the rector’s office on my hands and knees.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000259">There was another silence and Lois saw that her brother’s eyes wore a far-away look,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">that he was staring unseeingly out over the sunny fields.</span> 
    <span id="f000261">She was stirred by the modulations of his voice and the sudden silence that seemed to flow about him when he finished speaking.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000262">She noticed now that his eyes were of the same fibre as hers,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">with the green left out,</span> 
    <span id="f000264">and that his mouth was much gentler,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">really,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">than in the picture –</span> 
    <span id="f000267">or was it that the face had grown up to it lately?</span> 
    <span id="f000268">He was getting a little bald just on top of his head.</span> 
    <span id="f000269">She wondered if that was from wearing a hat so much.</span> 
    <span id="f000270">It seemed awful for a man to grow bald and no one to care about it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000271">«Were you –</span> 
    <span id="f000272">pious when you were young,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">Kieth?» she asked.</span> 
    <span id="f000274">«You know what I mean.</span> 
    <span id="f000275">Were you religious?</span> 
    <span id="f000276">If you don’t mind these personal questions.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000277">«Yes,» he said with his eyes still far away –</span> 
    <span id="f000278">and she felt that his intense abstraction was as much a part of his personality as his attention.</span> 
    <span id="f000279">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000280">I suppose I was,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">when I was –</span> 
    <span id="f000282">sober.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000283">Lois thrilled slightly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000284">«Did you drink?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000285">He nodded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000286">«I was on the way to making a bad hash of things.» He smiled and,</span> 
    <span id="f000287">turning his gray eyes on her,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">changed the subject.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000289">«Child,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">tell me about mother.</span> 
    <span id="f000291">I know it’s been awfully hard for you there,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">lately.</span> 
    <span id="f000293">I know you’ve had to sacrifice a lot and put up with a great deal and I want you to know how fine of you I think it is.</span> 
    <span id="f000294">I feel,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">that you’re sort of taking the place of both of us there.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000297">Lois thought quickly how little she had sacrificed;</span> 
    <span id="f000298">how lately she had constantly avoided her nervous,</span> 
    <span id="f000299">half-invalid mother.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000300">«Youth shouldn’t be sacrificed to age,</span> 
    <span id="f000301">Kieth,» she said steadily.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000302">«I know,» he sighed,</span> 
    <span id="f000303">«and you oughtn’t to have the weight on your shoulders,</span> 
    <span id="f000304">child.</span> 
    <span id="f000305">I wish I were there to help you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000306">She saw how quickly he had turned her remark and instantly she knew what this quality was that he gave off.</span> 
    <span id="f000307">He was SWEET.</span> 
    <span id="f000308">Her thoughts went of on a side-track and then she broke the silence with an odd remark.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000309">«Sweetness is hard,» she said suddenly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000310">«What?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000311">«Nothing,» she denied in confusion.</span> 
    <span id="f000312">«I didn’t mean to speak aloud.</span> 
    <span id="f000313">I was thinking of something –</span> 
    <span id="f000314">of a conversation with a man named Freddy Kebble.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000315">«Maury Kebble’s brother?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000316">«Yes,» she said rather surprised to think of him having known Maury Kebble.</span> 
    <span id="f000317">Still there was nothing strange about it.</span> 
    <span id="f000318">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000319">he and I were talking about sweetness a few weeks ago.</span> 
    <span id="f000320">Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000321">I don’t know –</span> 
    <span id="f000322">I said that a man named Howard –</span> 
    <span id="f000323">that a man I knew was sweet,</span> 
    <span id="f000324">and he didn’t agree with me,</span> 
    <span id="f000325">and we began talking about what sweetness in a man was:</span> 
    <span id="f000326">He kept telling me I meant a sort of soppy softness,</span> 
    <span id="f000327">but I knew I didn’t –</span> 
    <span id="f000328">yet I didn’t know exactly how to put it.</span> 
    <span id="f000329">I see now.</span> 
    <span id="f000330">I meant just the opposite.</span> 
    <span id="f000331">I suppose real sweetness is a sort of hardness –</span> 
    <span id="f000332">and strength.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000333">Kieth nodded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000334">«I see what you mean.</span> 
    <span id="f000335">I’ve known old priests who had it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000336">«I’m talking about young men,» she said rather defiantly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000337">They had reached the now deserted baseball diamond and,</span> 
    <span id="f000338">pointing her to a wooden bench,</span> 
    <span id="f000339">he sprawled full length on the grass.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000340">«Are these YOUNG men happy here,</span> 
    <span id="f000341">Kieth?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000342">«Don’t they look happy,</span> 
    <span id="f000343">Lois?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000344">«I suppose so,</span> 
    <span id="f000345">but those YOUNG ones,</span> 
    <span id="f000346">those two we just passed –</span> 
    <span id="f000347">have they –</span> 
    <span id="f000348">are they—?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000349">«Are they signed up?» he laughed.</span> 
    <span id="f000350">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000351">but they will be next month.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000352">«Permanently?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000353">«Yes –</span> 
    <span id="f000354">unless they break down mentally or physically.</span> 
    <span id="f000355">Of course in a discipline like ours a lot drop out.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000356">«But those BOYS.</span> 
    <span id="f000357">Are they giving up fine chances outside –</span> 
    <span id="f000358">like you did?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000359">He nodded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000360">«Some of them.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000361">«But Kieth,</span> 
    <span id="f000362">they don’t know what they’re doing.</span> 
    <span id="f000363">They haven’t had any experience of what they’re missing.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000364">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000365">I suppose not.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000366">«It doesn’t seem fair.</span> 
    <span id="f000367">Life has just sort of scared them at first.</span> 
    <span id="f000368">Do they all come in so YOUNG?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000369">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000370">some of them have knocked around,</span> 
    <span id="f000371">led pretty wild lives –</span> 
    <span id="f000372">Regan,</span> 
    <span id="f000373">for instance.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000374">«I should think that sort would be better,» she said meditatively,</span> 
    <span id="f000375">«men that had SEEN life.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000376">«No,» said Kieth earnestly,</span> 
    <span id="f000377">«I’m not sure that knocking about gives a man the sort of experience he can communicate to others.</span> 
    <span id="f000378">Some of the broadest men I’ve known have been absolutely rigid about themselves.</span> 
    <span id="f000379">And reformed libertines are a notoriously intolerant class.</span> 
    <span id="f000380">Don’t you thank so,</span> 
    <span id="f000381">Lois?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000382">She nodded,</span> 
    <span id="f000383">still meditative,</span> 
    <span id="f000384">and he continued:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000385">«It seems to me that when one weak reason goes to another,</span> 
    <span id="f000386">it isn’t help they want;</span> 
    <span id="f000387">it’s a sort of companionship in guilt,</span> 
    <span id="f000388">Lois.</span> 
    <span id="f000389">After you were born,</span> 
    <span id="f000390">when mother began to get nervous she used to go and weep with a certain Mrs.</span> 
    <span id="f000391">Comstock.</span> 
    <span id="f000392">Lord,</span> 
    <span id="f000393">it used to make me shiver.</span> 
    <span id="f000394">She said it comforted her,</span> 
    <span id="f000395">poor old mother.</span> 
    <span id="f000396">No,</span> 
    <span id="f000397">I don’t think that to help others you’ve got to show yourself at all.</span> 
    <span id="f000398">Real help comes from a stronger person whom you respect.</span> 
    <span id="f000399">And their sympathy is all the bigger because it’s impersonal.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000400">«But people want human sympathy,» objected Lois.</span> 
    <span id="f000401">«They want to feel the other person’s been tempted.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000402">«Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000403">in their hearts they want to feel that the other person’s been weak.</span> 
    <span id="f000404">That’s what they mean by human.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000405">«Here in this old monkery,</span> 
    <span id="f000406">Lois,» he continued with a smile,</span> 
    <span id="f000407">«they try to get all that self-pity and pride in our own wills out of us right at the first.</span> 
    <span id="f000408">They put us to scrubbing floors –</span> 
    <span id="f000409">and other things.</span> 
    <span id="f000410">It’s like that idea of saving your life by losing it.</span> 
    <span id="f000411">You see we sort of feel that the less human a man is,</span> 
    <span id="f000412">in your sense of human,</span> 
    <span id="f000413">the better servant he can be to humanity.</span> 
    <span id="f000414">We carry it out to the end,</span> 
    <span id="f000415">too.</span> 
    <span id="f000416">When one of us dies his family can’t even have him then.</span> 
    <span id="f000417">He’s buried here under plain wooden cross with a thousand others.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000418">His tone changed suddenly and he looked at her with a great brightness in his gray eyes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000419">«But way back in a man’s heart there are some things he can’t get rid of –</span> 
    <span id="f000420">an one of them is that I’m awfully in love with my little sister.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000421">With a sudden impulse she knelt beside him in the grass and,</span> 
    <span id="f000422">Leaning over,</span> 
    <span id="f000423">kissed his forehead.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000424">«You’re hard,</span> 
    <span id="f000425">Kieth,» she said,</span> 
    <span id="f000426">«and I love you for it –</span> 
    <span id="f000427">and you’re sweet.»</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>