<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter III</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Back in the reception-room Lois met a half-dozen more of Kieth’s particular friends;</span> 
    <span id="f000003">there was a young man named Jarvis,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">rather pale and delicate-looking,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">who,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">she knew,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">must be a grandson of old Mrs.</span> 
    <span id="f000008">Jarvis at home,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and she mentally compared this ascetic with a brace of his riotous uncles.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">And there was Regan with a scarred face and piercing intent eyes that followed her about the room and often rested on Kieth with something very like worship.</span> 
    <span id="f000011">She knew then what Kieth had meant about «a good man to have with you in a fight.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000012">He’s the missionary type –</span> 
    <span id="f000013">she thought vaguely –</span> 
    <span id="f000014">China or something.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000015">«I want Kieth’s sister to show us what the shimmy is,» demanded one young man with a broad grin.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">Lois laughed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000017">«I’m afraid the Father Rector would send me shimmying out the gate.</span> 
    <span id="f000018">Besides,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">I’m not an expert.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000020">«I’m sure it wouldn’t be best for Jimmy’s soul anyway,» said Kieth solemnly.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">«He’s inclined to brood about things like shimmys.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">They were just starting to do the –</span> 
    <span id="f000023">maxixe,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">wasn’t it,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">Jimmy?</span> 
    <span id="f000026">– when he became a monk,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">and it haunted him his whole first year.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">You’d see him when he was peeling potatoes,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">putting his arm around the bucket and making irreligious motions with his feet.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">There was a general laugh in which Lois joined.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000031">«An old lady who comes here to Mass sent Kieth this ice-cream,» whispered Jarvis under cover of the laugh,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">«because she’d heard you were coming.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">It’s pretty good,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">isn’t it?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000035">There were tears trembling in Lois’ eyes.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>