<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter IV</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Then half an hour later over in the chapel things suddenly went all wrong.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">It was several years since Lois had been at Benediction and at first she was thrilled by the gleaming monstrance with its central spot of white,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">the air rich and heavy with incense,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">and the sun shining through the stained-glass window of</span> 
    <span id="f000006">St.&#160;Francis Xavier overhead and falling in warm red tracery on the cassock of the man in front of her,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">but at the first notes of the «O SALUTARIS HOSTIA» a heavy weight seemed to descend upon her soul.</span> 
    <span id="f000008">Kieth was on her right and young Jarvis on her left,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and she stole uneasy glance at both of them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">What’s the matter with me?</span> 
    <span id="f000011">she thought impatiently.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000012">She looked again.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">Was there a certain coldness in both their profiles,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">that she had not noticed before –</span> 
    <span id="f000015">a pallor about the mouth and a curious set expression in their eyes?</span> 
    <span id="f000016">She shivered slightly:</span> 
    <span id="f000017">they were like dead men.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000018">She felt her soul recede suddenly from Kieth’s.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">This was her brother –</span> 
    <span id="f000020">this,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">this unnatural person.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">She caught herself in the act of a little laugh.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000023">«What is the matter with me?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">She passed her hand over her eyes and the weight increased.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">The incense sickened her and a stray,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">ragged note from one of the tenors in the choir grated on her ear like the shriek of a slate-pencil.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">She fidgeted,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">and raising her hand to her hair touched her forehead,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">found moisture on it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">«It’s hot in here,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">hot as the deuce.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">Again she repressed a faint laugh and,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">then in an instant the weight on her heart suddenly diffused into cold fear.</span> 
    <span id="f000034">… It was that candle on the altar.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">It was all wrong –</span> 
    <span id="f000036">wrong.</span> 
    <span id="f000037">Why didn’t somebody see it?</span> 
    <span id="f000038">There was something IN it.</span> 
    <span id="f000039">There was something coming out of it,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">taking form and shape above it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">She tried to fight down her rising panic,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">told herself it was the wick.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">If the wick wasn’t straight,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">candles did something –</span> 
    <span id="f000045">but they didn’t do this!</span> 
    <span id="f000046">With incalculable rapidity a force was gathering within her,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">a tremendous,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">assimilative force,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">drawing from every sense,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">every corner of her brain,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">and as it surged up inside her she felt an enormous terrified repulsion.</span> 
    <span id="f000052">She drew her arms in close to her side away from Kieth and Jarvis.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">Something in that candle … she was leaning forward –</span> 
    <span id="f000054">in another moment she felt she would go forward toward it –</span> 
    <span id="f000055">didn’t any one see it?</span> 
    <span id="f000056">… anyone?</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">«Ugh!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000058">She felt a space beside her and something told her that Jarvis had gasped and sat down very suddenly … then she was kneeling and as the flaming monstrance slowly left the altar in the hands of the priest,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">she heard a great rushing noise in her ears –</span> 
    <span id="f000060">the crash of the bells was like hammer-blows … and then in a moment that seemed eternal a great torrent rolled over her heart –</span> 
    <span id="f000061">there was a shouting there and a lashing as of waves …</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000062">… She was calling,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">felt herself calling for Kieth,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">her lips mouthing the words that would not come:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000065">«Kieth!</span> 
    <span id="f000066">Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">my God!</span> 
    <span id="f000068">KIETH!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">Suddenly she became aware of a new presence,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">something external,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">in front of her,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">consummated and expressed in warm red tracery.</span> 
    <span id="f000073">Then she knew.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">It was the window of</span> 
    <span id="f000075">St.&#160;Francis Xavier.</span> 
    <span id="f000076">Her mind gripped at it,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">clung to it finally,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">and she felt herself calling again endlessly,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">impotently –</span> 
    <span id="f000080">Kieth –</span> 
    <span id="f000081">Kieth!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000082">Then out of a great stillness came a voice:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000083">«BLESSED BE GOD.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000084">With a gradual rumble sounded the response rolling heavily through the chapel:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000085">«Blessed be God.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000086">The words sang instantly in her heart;</span> 
    <span id="f000087">the incense lay mystically and sweetly peaceful upon the air,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">and THE CANDLE ON THE ALTAR WENT OUT.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000089">«Blessed be His Holy Name.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000090">«Blessed be His Holy Name.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000091">Everything blurred into a swinging mist.</span> 
    <span id="f000092">With a sound half-gasp,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">half-cry she rocked on her feet and reeled backward into Kieth’s suddenly outstretched arms.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>