<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter VI</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Half an hour later she walked leaning on Kieth’s arm down the long central path toward the gate.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000003">«It’s been such a short afternoon,» he sighed,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">«and I’m so sorry you were sick,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">Lois.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000006">«Kieth,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">I’m feeling fine now,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">really;</span> 
    <span id="f000009">I wish you wouldn’t worry.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">«Poor old child.</span> 
    <span id="f000011">I didn’t realize that Benediction’d be a long service for you after your hot trip out here and all.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000012">She laughed cheerfully.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">«I guess the truth is I’m not much used to Benediction.</span> 
    <span id="f000014">Mass is the limit of my religious exertions.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000015">She paused and then continued quickly:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">«I don’t want to shock you,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Kieth,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">but I can’t tell you how –</span> 
    <span id="f000019">how INCONVENIENT being a Catholic is.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">It really doesn’t seem to apply any more.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">As far as morals go,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">some of the wildest boys I know are Catholics.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">And the brightest boys –</span> 
    <span id="f000024">I mean the ones who think and read a lot,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">don’t seem to believe in much of anything any more.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">«Tell me about it.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">The bus won’t be here for another half-hour.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000028">They sat down on a bench by the path.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000029">«For instance,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">Gerald Carter,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">he’s published a novel.</span> 
    <span id="f000032">He absolutely roars when people mention immortality.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">And then Howa –</span> 
    <span id="f000034">well,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">another man I’ve known well,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">lately,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">who was Phi Beta Kappa at Harvard says that no intelligent person can believe in Supernatural Christianity.</span> 
    <span id="f000038">He says Christ was a great socialist,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">though.</span> 
    <span id="f000040">Am I shocking you?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">She broke off suddenly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000042">Kieth smiled.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">«You can’t shock a monk.</span> 
    <span id="f000044">He’s a professional shock-absorber.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000045">«Well,» she continued,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">«that’s about all.</span> 
    <span id="f000047">It seems so –</span> 
    <span id="f000048">so NARROW.</span> 
    <span id="f000049">Church schools,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">for instance.</span> 
    <span id="f000051">There’s more freedom about things that Catholic people can’t see –</span> 
    <span id="f000052">like birth control.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">Kieth winced,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">almost imperceptibly,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">but Lois saw it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000056">«Oh,» she said quickly,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">«everybody talks about everything now.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000058">«It’s probably better that way.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">much better.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">that’s all,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">Kieth.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">I just wanted to tell you why I’m a little –</span> 
    <span id="f000066">luke-warm,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">at present.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000068">«I’m not shocked,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">Lois.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">I understand better than you think.</span> 
    <span id="f000071">We all go through those times.</span> 
    <span id="f000072">But I know it’ll come out all right,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">child.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">There’s that gift of faith that we have,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">you and I,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">that’ll carry us past the bad spots.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000077">He rose as he spoke and they started again down the path.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000078">«I want you to pray for me sometimes,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">Lois.</span> 
    <span id="f000080">I think your prayers would be about what I need.</span> 
    <span id="f000081">Because we’ve come very close in these few hours,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">I think.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000083">Her eyes were suddenly shining.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000084">«Oh we have,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">we have!» she cried.</span> 
    <span id="f000086">«I feel closer to you now than to any one in the world.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000087">He stopped suddenly and indicated the side of the path.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">«We might –</span> 
    <span id="f000089">just a minute—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000090">It was a pietà,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">a life-size statue of the Blessed Virgin set within a semicircle of rocks.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000092">Feeling a little self-conscious she dropped on her knees beside him and made an unsuccessful attempt at prayer.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000093">She was only half through when he rose.</span> 
    <span id="f000094">He took her arm again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000095">«I wanted to thank Her for letting as have this day together,» he said simply.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000096">Lois felt a sudden lump in her throat and she wanted to say something that would tell him how much it had meant to her,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">too.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">But she found no words.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000099">«I’ll always remember this,» he continued,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">his voice trembling a little—«this summer day with you.</span> 
    <span id="f000101">It’s been just what I expected.</span> 
    <span id="f000102">You’re just what I expected,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">Lois.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000104">«I’m awfully glad,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">Keith.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000106">«You see,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">when you were little they kept sending me snap-shots of you,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">first as a baby and then as a child in socks playing on the beach with a pail and shovel,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">and then suddenly as a wistful little girl with wondering,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">pure eyes –</span> 
    <span id="f000111">and I used to build dreams about you.</span> 
    <span id="f000112">A man has to have something living to cling to.</span> 
    <span id="f000113">I think,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">it was your little white soul I tried to keep near me –</span> 
    <span id="f000116">even when life was at its loudest and every intellectual idea of God seemed the sheerest mockery,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">and desire and love and a million things came up to me and said:</span> 
    <span id="f000118">’Look here at me!</span> 
    <span id="f000119">See,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">I’m Life.</span> 
    <span id="f000121">You’re turning your back on it!’ All the way through that shadow,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000123">I could always see your baby soul flitting on ahead of me,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">very frail and clear and wonderful.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000125">Lois was crying softly.</span> 
    <span id="f000126">They had reached the gate and she rested her elbow on it and dabbed furiously at her eyes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000127">«And then later,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">child,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">when you were sick I knelt all one night and asked God to spare you for me –</span> 
    <span id="f000130">for I knew then that I wanted more;</span> 
    <span id="f000131">He had taught me to want more.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">I wanted to know you moved and breathed in the same world with me.</span> 
    <span id="f000133">I saw you growing up,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">that white innocence of yours changing to a flame and burning to give light to other weaker souls.</span> 
    <span id="f000135">And then I wanted some day to take your children on my knee and hear them call the crabbed old monk Uncle Kieth.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000136">He seemed to be laughing now as he talked.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000137">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">I was asking God for more then.</span> 
    <span id="f000141">I wanted the letters you’d write me and the place I’d have at your table.</span> 
    <span id="f000142">I wanted an awful lot,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">dear.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000145">«You’ve got me,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">Kieth,» she sobbed «you know it,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">say you know it.</span> 
    <span id="f000148">Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">I’m acting like a baby but I didn’t think you’d be this way,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">and I –</span> 
    <span id="f000151">oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">Kieth –</span> 
    <span id="f000153">Kieth—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000154">He took her hand and patted it softly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000155">«Here’s the bus.</span> 
    <span id="f000156">You’ll come again won’t you?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000157">She put her hands on his cheeks,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">add drawing his head down,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">pressed her tear-wet face against his.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000160">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">Kieth,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">some day I’ll tell you something.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000164">He helped her in,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">saw her take down her handkerchief and smile bravely at him,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">as the driver kicked his whip and the bus rolled off.</span> 
    <span id="f000167">Then a thick cloud of dust rose around it and she was gone.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000168">For a few minutes he stood there on the road his hand on the gate-post,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">his lips half parted in a smile.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000170">«Lois,» he said aloud in a sort of wonder,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">«Lois,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">Lois.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000173">Later,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">some probationers passing noticed him kneeling before the pietà,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">and coming back after a time found him still there.</span> 
    <span id="f000176">And he was there until twilight came down and the courteous trees grew garrulous overhead and the crickets took up their burden of song in the dusky grass.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>