<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Carolyn Frances</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Shoes and Stockings, A Collection of Short Stories</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Louisa M. Alcott</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Nelly’s Hospital</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">Nelly sat beside her mother picking lint;</span>
   <span id="f000009">but while her fingers flew,</span>
   <span id="f000010">her eyes often looked wistfully out into the meadow,</span>
   <span id="f000011">golden with buttercups,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and bright with sunshine.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Presently she said,</span>
   <span id="f000014">rather bashfully,</span>
   <span id="f000015">but very earnestly,</span>
   <span id="f000016">“Mamma,</span>
   <span id="f000017">I want to tell you a little plan I’ve made,</span>
   <span id="f000018">if you’ll please not laugh.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">“I think I can safely promise that,</span>
   <span id="f000020">my dear,” said her mother,</span>
   <span id="f000021">putting down her work that she might listen quite respectfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">Nelly looked pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and went on confidingly,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">“Since brother Will came home with his lame foot,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and I’ve helped you tend him,</span>
   <span id="f000026">I’ve heard a great deal about hospitals,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and liked it very much.</span>
   <span id="f000028">To-day I said I wanted to go and be a nurse,</span>
   <span id="f000029">like Aunt Mercy;</span>
   <span id="f000030">but Will laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and told me I’d better begin by nursing sick birds and butterflies and pussies before I tried to take care of men.</span>
   <span id="f000032">I did not like to be made fun of,</span>
   <span id="f000033">but I’ve been thinking that it would be very pleasant to have a little hospital all my own,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and be a nurse in it,</span>
   <span id="f000035">because,</span>
   <span id="f000036">if I took pains,</span>
   <span id="f000037">so many pretty creatures might be made well,</span>
   <span id="f000038">perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Could I,</span>
   <span id="f000040">mamma?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">Her mother wanted to smile at the idea,</span>
   <span id="f000042">but did not,</span>
   <span id="f000043">for Nelly looked up with her heart and eyes so full of tender compassion,</span>
   <span id="f000044">both for the unknown men for whom her little hands had done their best,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and for the smaller sufferers nearer home,</span>
   <span id="f000046">that she stroked the shining head,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and answered readily:</span>
   <span id="f000048">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000049">Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000050">it will be a proper charity for such a young Samaritan,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and you may learn much if you are in earnest.</span>
   <span id="f000052">You must study how to feed and nurse your little patients,</span>
   <span id="f000053">else your pity will do no good,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and your hospital become a prison.</span>
   <span id="f000055">I will help you,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and Tony shall be your surgeon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">“O mamma,</span>
   <span id="f000058">how good you always are to me!</span>
   <span id="f000059">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000060">I am in truly earnest;</span>
   <span id="f000061">I will learn,</span>
   <span id="f000062">I will be kind,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and may I go now and begin?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“You may,</span>
   <span id="f000065">but tell me first where will you have your hospital?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“In my room,</span>
   <span id="f000067">mamma;</span>
   <span id="f000068">it is so snug and sunny,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and I never should forget it there,” said Nelly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“You must not forget it anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000071">I think that plan will not do.</span>
   <span id="f000072">How would you like to find caterpillars walking in your bed,</span>
   <span id="f000073">to hear sick pussies mewing in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000074">to have beetles clinging to your clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000075">or see mice,</span>
   <span id="f000076">bugs,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and birds tumbling downstairs whenever the door was open?” said her mother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">Nelly laughed at that thought a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000079">then clapped her hands,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and cried:</span>
   <span id="f000081">“Let us have the old summer-house!</span>
   <span id="f000082">My doves only use the upper part,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and it would be so like Frank in the storybook.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Please say yes again,</span>
   <span id="f000085">mamma.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">Her mother did say yes,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and,</span>
   <span id="f000088">snatching up her hat,</span>
   <span id="f000089">Nelly ran to find Tony,</span>
   <span id="f000090">the gardener’s son,</span>
   <span id="f000091">a pleasant lad of twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000092">who was Nelly’s favorite playmate.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Tony pronounced the plan a “jolly” one,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and,</span>
   <span id="f000095">leaving his work,</span>
   <span id="f000096">followed his young mistress to the summer-house,</span>
   <span id="f000097">for she could not wait one minute.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“What must we do first?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000099">as they stood looking in at the dusty room,</span>
   <span id="f000100">full of garden tools,</span>
   <span id="f000101">bags of seeds,</span>
   <span id="f000102">old flower-pots,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and watering-cans.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“Clear out the rubbish,</span>
   <span id="f000105">miss,” answered Tony.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Here it goes,</span>
   <span id="f000107">then,” and Nelly began bundling everything out in such haste that she broke two flower-pots,</span>
   <span id="f000108">scattered all the squash-seeds,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and brought a pile of rakes and hoes clattering down about her ears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Just wait a bit,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and let me take the lead,</span>
   <span id="f000112">miss.</span>
   <span id="f000113">You hand me things,</span>
   <span id="f000114">I’ll pile ’em in the barrow and wheel ’em off to the barn;</span>
   <span id="f000115">then it will save time,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and be finished up tidy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">Nelly did as he advised,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and very soon nothing but dust remained.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“What next?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000120">not knowing in the least.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“I’ll sweep up while you see if Polly can come and scrub the room out.</span>
   <span id="f000122">It ought to be done before you stay here,</span>
   <span id="f000123">let alone the patients.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“So it had,” said Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000125">looking very wise all of a sudden.</span>
   <span id="f000126">“Will says the wards – that means the rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000127">Tony – are scrubbed every day or two,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and kept very clean,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and well venti-something – I can’t say it;</span>
   <span id="f000130">but it means having a plenty of air come in.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I can clean windows while Polly mops,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and then we shall soon be done.” Away she ran,</span>
   <span id="f000133">feeling very busy and important.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Polly came,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and very soon the room looked like another place.</span>
   <span id="f000136">The four latticed windows were set wide open,</span>
   <span id="f000137">so the sunshine came dancing through the vines that grew outside,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and curious roses peeped in to see what frolic was afoot.</span>
   <span id="f000139">The walls shone white again,</span>
   <span id="f000140">for not a spider dared to stay;</span>
   <span id="f000141">the wide seat which encircled the room was dustless now,</span>
   <span id="f000142">– the floor as nice as willing hands could make it;</span>
   <span id="f000143">and the south wind blew away all musty odors with its fragrant breath.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“How fine it looks!” cried Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000145">dancing on the doorstep,</span>
   <span id="f000146">lest a foot-print should mar the still damp floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“I’d almost like to fall sick for the sake of staying here,” said Tony,</span>
   <span id="f000148">admiringly.</span>
   <span id="f000149">"Now,</span>
   <span id="f000150">what sort of beds are you going to have,</span>
   <span id="f000151">miss?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“I suppose it won’t do to put butterflies and toads and worms into beds like the real soldiers where Will was?” answered Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000153">looking anxious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">Tony could hardly help shouting at the idea;</span>
   <span id="f000155">but,</span>
   <span id="f000156">rather than trouble his little mistress,</span>
   <span id="f000157">he said very soberly:</span>
   <span id="f000158">“I’m afraid they wouldn’t lay easy,</span>
   <span id="f000159">not being used to it.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Tucking up a butterfly would about kill him;</span>
   <span id="f000161">the worms would be apt to get lost among the bed-clothes;</span>
   <span id="f000162">and the toads would tumble out the first thing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“I shall have to ask mamma about it.</span>
   <span id="f000164">What will you do while I’m gone?” said Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000165">unwilling that a moment should be lost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">I’ll make frames for nettings to the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000167">else the doves will come in and eat up the sick people.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“I think they will know that it is a hospital,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and be too kind to hurt or frighten their neighbors,” began Nelly;</span>
   <span id="f000170">but as she spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000171">a plump white dove walked in,</span>
   <span id="f000172">looked about with its red-ringed eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and quietly pecked up a tiny bug that had just ventured out from the crack where it had taken refuge when the deluge came.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000175">we must have the nettings.</span>
   <span id="f000176">I’ll ask mamma for some lace,” said Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000177">when she saw that;</span>
   <span id="f000178">and,</span>
   <span id="f000179">taking her pet dove on her shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000180">told it about her hospital as she went toward the house;</span>
   <span id="f000181">for,</span>
   <span id="f000182">loving all little creatures as she did,</span>
   <span id="f000183">it grieved her to have any harm befall even the least or plainest of them.</span>
   <span id="f000184">She had a sweet child-fancy that her playmates understood her language as she did theirs,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and that birds,</span>
   <span id="f000186">flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000187">animals,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and insects felt for her the same affection which she felt for them.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Love always makes friends,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and nothing seemed to fear the gentle child;</span>
   <span id="f000191">but welcomed her like a little sun who shone alike on all,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and never suffered an eclipse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">She was gone some time,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and when she came back her mind was full of new plans,</span>
   <span id="f000195">one hand full of rushes,</span>
   <span id="f000196">the other of books,</span>
   <span id="f000197">while over her head floated the lace,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and a bright green ribbon hung across her arm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“Mamma says that the best beds will be little baskets,</span>
   <span id="f000200">boxes,</span>
   <span id="f000201">cages,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and any sort of thing that suits the patients;</span>
   <span id="f000203">for each will need different care and food and medicine.</span>
   <span id="f000204">I have not baskets enough,</span>
   <span id="f000205">so,</span>
   <span id="f000206">as I cannot have pretty white beds,</span>
   <span id="f000207">I am going to braid pretty green nests for my patients,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and,</span>
   <span id="f000209">while I do it,</span>
   <span id="f000210">mamma thought you’d read to me the pages she has marked,</span>
   <span id="f000211">so that we may begin right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000213">miss;</span>
   <span id="f000214">I like that.</span>
   <span id="f000215">But what is the ribbon for?” asked Tony.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“O,</span>
   <span id="f000217">that’s for you.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Will says that,</span>
   <span id="f000219">if you are to be an army surgeon,</span>
   <span id="f000220">you must have a green band on your arm;</span>
   <span id="f000221">so I got this to tie on when we play hospital.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">Tony let her decorate the sleeve of his gray jacket,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and when the nettings were done,</span>
   <span id="f000224">the welcome books were opened and enjoyed.</span>
   <span id="f000225">It was a happy time,</span>
   <span id="f000226">sitting in the sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000227">with leaves pleasantly astir all about them,</span>
   <span id="f000228">doves cooing overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and flowers sweetly gossiping together through the summer afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Nelly wove her smooth,</span>
   <span id="f000231">green rushes.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Tony pored over his pages,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and both found something better than fairy legends in the family histories of insects,</span>
   <span id="f000234">birds,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and beasts.</span>
   <span id="f000236">All manner of wonders appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and were explained to them,</span>
   <span id="f000238">till Nelly felt as if a new world had been given her,</span>
   <span id="f000239">so full of beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000240">interest,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and pleasure that she never could be tired of studying it.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Many of these things were not strange to Tony,</span>
   <span id="f000243">because,</span>
   <span id="f000244">born among plants,</span>
   <span id="f000245">he had grown up with them as if they were brothers and sisters,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and the sturdy,</span>
   <span id="f000247">brown-faced boy had learned many lessons which no poet or philosopher could have taught him,</span>
   <span id="f000248">unless he had become as child-like a s himself,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and studied from the same great book.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">When the baskets were done,</span>
   <span id="f000251">the marked pages all read,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and the sun began to draw his rosy curtains round him before smiling “Good night,” Nelly ranged the green beds round the room,</span>
   <span id="f000253">Tony put in the screens,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and the hospital was ready.</span>
   <span id="f000255">The little nurse was so excited that she could hardly eat her supper,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and directly afterwards ran up to tell Will how well she had succeeded with the first part of her enterprise.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Now brother Will was a brave young officer,</span>
   <span id="f000258">who had fought stoutly and done his duty like a man.</span>
   <span id="f000259">But when lying weak and wounded at home,</span>
   <span id="f000260">the cheerful courage which had led him safely through many dangers seemed to have deserted him,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and he was often gloomy,</span>
   <span id="f000262">sad,</span>
   <span id="f000263">or fretful,</span>
   <span id="f000264">because he longed to be at his post again,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and time passed very slowly.</span>
   <span id="f000266">This troubled his mother,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and made Nelly wonder why he found lying in a pleasant room so much harder than fighting battles or making weary marches.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Anything that interested and amused him was very welcome,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and when Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000270">climbing on the arm of his sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000271">told her plans,</span>
   <span id="f000272">mishaps,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and successes,</span>
   <span id="f000274">he laughed out more heartily than he had done for many a day,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and his thin face began to twinkle with fun as it used to do so long ago.</span>
   <span id="f000276">That pleased Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and she chatted like any affectionate little magpie,</span>
   <span id="f000278">till Will was really interested;</span>
   <span id="f000279">for when one is ill,</span>
   <span id="f000280">small things amuse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“Do you expect your patients to come to you,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Nelly?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000284">I shall go and look for them.</span>
   <span id="f000285">I often see poor things suffering in the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and the wood,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and always feel as if they ought to be taken care of,</span>
   <span id="f000288">as people are.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“You won’t like to carry insane bugs,</span>
   <span id="f000290">lame toads,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and convulsive kittens in your hands,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and they would not stay on a stretcher if you had one.</span>
   <span id="f000293">You should have an ambulance and be a branch of the Sanitary Commission,” said Will.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">Nelly had often heard the words,</span>
   <span id="f000295">but did not quite understand what they meant.</span>
   <span id="f000296">So Will told her of that great never-failing charity,</span>
   <span id="f000297">to which thousands owe their lives;</span>
   <span id="f000298">and the child listened with lips apart,</span>
   <span id="f000299">eyes often full,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and so much love and admiration in her heart that she could find no words in which to tell it.</span>
   <span id="f000301">When her brother paused,</span>
   <span id="f000302">she said earnestly:</span>
   <span id="f000303">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000304">I will be a Sanitary.</span>
   <span id="f000305">This little cart of mine shall be my amb’lance,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and I’ll never let my water-barrels go empty,</span>
   <span id="f000307">never drive too fast,</span>
   <span id="f000308">or be rough with my poor passengers,</span>
   <span id="f000309">like some of the men you tell about.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Does this look like an ambulance,</span>
   <span id="f000311">Will?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“Not a bit,</span>
   <span id="f000313">but it shall,</span>
   <span id="f000314">if you and mamma like to help me.</span>
   <span id="f000315">I want four long bits of cane,</span>
   <span id="f000316">a square of white cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000317">some pieces of thin wood,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and the gum-pot,” said Will,</span>
   <span id="f000319">sitting up to examine the little cart,</span>
   <span id="f000320">feeling like a boy again as he took out his knife and began to whittle.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Upstairs and downstairs ran Nelly till all necessary materials were collected,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and almost breathlessly she watched her brother arch the canes over the cart,</span>
   <span id="f000323">cover them with the cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and fit an upper shelf of small compartments,</span>
   <span id="f000325">each lined with cotton-wool to serve as beds for wounded insects,</span>
   <span id="f000326">lest they should hurt one another or jostle out.</span>
   <span id="f000327">The lower part was left free for any larger creatures which Nelly might find.</span>
   <span id="f000328">Among her toys she had a tiny cask which only needed a peg to be water-tight;</span>
   <span id="f000329">this was filled and fitted in before,</span>
   <span id="f000330">because,</span>
   <span id="f000331">as the small sufferers needed no seats,</span>
   <span id="f000332">there was no place for it behind,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and,</span>
   <span id="f000334">as Nelly was both horse and driver,</span>
   <span id="f000335">it was more convenient in front.</span>
   <span id="f000336">On each side of it stood a box of stores.</span>
   <span id="f000337">In one were minute rollers,</span>
   <span id="f000338">as bandages are called,</span>
   <span id="f000339">a few bottles not yet filled,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and a wee doll’s jar of cold-cream,</span>
   <span id="f000341">because Nelly could not feel that her outfit was complete without a medicine-chest.</span>
   <span id="f000342">The other box was full of crumbs,</span>
   <span id="f000343">bits of sugar,</span>
   <span id="f000344">bird-seed,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and grains of wheat and corn,</span>
   <span id="f000346">lest any famished stranger should die for want of food before she got it home.</span>
   <span id="f000347">Then mamma painted “U.S.</span>
   <span id="f000348">San.</span>
   <span id="f000349">Com.” in bright letters on the cover,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and Nelly received her charitable plaything with a long sigh of satisfaction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“Nine o’clock already.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Bless me,</span>
   <span id="f000353">what a short evening this has been,” exclaimed Will,</span>
   <span id="f000354">as Nelly came to give him her good-night kiss.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“And such a happy one,” she answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“Thank you very,</span>
   <span id="f000357">very much,</span>
   <span id="f000358">dear Will.</span>
   <span id="f000359">I only wish my little amb’lance was big enough for you to go in,</span>
   <span id="f000360">– I’d so like to give you the first ride.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000361">“Nothing I should like better,</span>
   <span id="f000362">if it were possible,</span>
   <span id="f000363">though I’ve a prejudice against ambulances in general.</span>
   <span id="f000364">But as I cannot ride,</span>
   <span id="f000365">I’ll try and hop out to your hospital to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and see how you get on,” – which was a great deal for Captain Will to say,</span>
   <span id="f000367">because he had been too listless to leave his sofa for several days.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">That promise sent Nelly happily away to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000369">only stopping to pop her head out of the window to see if it was likely to be a fair day to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and to tell Tony about the new plan as he passed below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“Where shall you go to look for your first load of sick folks,</span>
   <span id="f000372">miss?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“All round the garden first,</span>
   <span id="f000374">then through the grove,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and home across the brook.</span>
   <span id="f000376">Do you think I can find any patients so?” said Nelly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“I know you will.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Good night,</span>
   <span id="f000379">miss,” and Tony walked away with a merry look on his face,</span>
   <span id="f000380">that Nelly would not have understood if she had seen it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">Up rose the sun bright and early,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and up rose Nurse Nelly almost as early and as bright.</span>
   <span id="f000383">Breakfast was taken in a great hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and before the dew was off the grass this branch of the S.</span>
   <span id="f000385">C.</span>
   <span id="f000386">was all astir.</span>
   <span id="f000387">Papa,</span>
   <span id="f000388">mamma,</span>
   <span id="f000389">big brother and baby sister,</span>
   <span id="f000390">men and maids,</span>
   <span id="f000391">all looked out to see the funny little ambulance depart,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and nowhere in all the summer fields was there a happier child than Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000393">as she went smiling down the garden path,</span>
   <span id="f000394">where tall flowers kissed her as she passed and every blithe bird seemed singing a “Good speed!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“How I wonder what I shall find first,” she thought,</span>
   <span id="f000396">looking sharply on all sides as she went.</span>
   <span id="f000397">Crickets chirped,</span>
   <span id="f000398">grasshoppers leaped,</span>
   <span id="f000399">ants worked busily at their subterranean houses,</span>
   <span id="f000400">spiders spun shining webs from twig to twig,</span>
   <span id="f000401">bees were coming for their bags of gold,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and butterflies had just begun their holiday.</span>
   <span id="f000403">A large white one alighted on the top of the ambulance,</span>
   <span id="f000404">walked over the inscription as if spelling it letter by letter,</span>
   <span id="f000405">then floated away from flower to flower,</span>
   <span id="f000406">like one carrying the good news far and wide.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“Now every one will know about the hospital and be glad to see me coming,” thought Nelly.</span>
   <span id="f000408">And indeed it seemed so,</span>
   <span id="f000409">for just then a black-bird,</span>
   <span id="f000410">sitting on a garden wall,</span>
   <span id="f000411">burst out with a song full of musical joy,</span>
   <span id="f000412">Nelly’s kitten came running after to stare at the wagon and rub her soft side against it,</span>
   <span id="f000413">a bright-eyed toad looked out from his cool bower among the lily-leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and at that minute Nelly found her first patient.</span>
   <span id="f000415">In one of the dewy cobwebs hanging from a shrub near by sat a fat black and yellow spider,</span>
   <span id="f000416">watching a fly whose delicate wings were just caught in the net.</span>
   <span id="f000417">The poor fly buzzed pitifully,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and struggled so hard that the whole web shook:</span>
   <span id="f000419">but the more he struggled,</span>
   <span id="f000420">the more he entangled himself,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and the fierce spider was preparing to descend that it might weave a shroud about its prey,</span>
   <span id="f000422">when a little finger broke the threads and lifted the fly safely into the palm of a hand,</span>
   <span id="f000423">where he lay faintly humming his thanks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">Nelly had heard much about contrabands,</span>
   <span id="f000425">knew who they were,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and was very much interested in them;</span>
   <span id="f000427">so,</span>
   <span id="f000428">when she freed the poor black fly she played he was her contraband,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and felt glad that her first patient was one that needed help so much.</span>
   <span id="f000430">Carefully brushing away as much of the web as she could,</span>
   <span id="f000431">she left small Pompey,</span>
   <span id="f000432">as she named him,</span>
   <span id="f000433">to free his own legs,</span>
   <span id="f000434">lest her clumsy fingers should hurt him;</span>
   <span id="f000435">then she laid him in one of the soft beds with a grain or two of sugar if he needed refreshment,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and bade him rest and recover from his fright,</span>
   <span id="f000437">remembering that he was at liberty to fly away whenever he liked,</span>
   <span id="f000438">because she had no wish to male a slave of him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">Feeling very happy over this new friend,</span>
   <span id="f000440">Nelly went on singing softly as she walked,</span>
   <span id="f000441">and presently she found a pretty caterpillar dressed in brown fur,</span>
   <span id="f000442">although the day was warm.</span>
   <span id="f000443">He lay so still she thought him dead,</span>
   <span id="f000444">till he rolled himself into a ball as she touched him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“I think you are either faint from the heat of this thick coat of yours,</span>
   <span id="f000446">or that you are going to make a cocoon of yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000447">Mr.&#160;Fuzz,” said Nelly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">“Now I want to see you turn into a butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000449">so I shall take you,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and if get lively again I will let you go.</span>
   <span id="f000451">I shall play that you have given out on a march,</span>
   <span id="f000452">as the soldiers sometimes do,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and been left behind for the Sanitary people to see to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">In went sulky Mr.&#160;Fuzz,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and on trundled the ambulance till a golden green rose-beetle was discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000456">lying on his back kicking as if in a fit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">“Dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000458">what shall I do for him?” thought Nelly.</span>
   <span id="f000459">“He acts as baby did when she was so ill,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and mamma put her in a warm bath.</span>
   <span id="f000461">I haven’t got my little tub here,</span>
   <span id="f000462">or any hot water,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and I’m afraid the beetle would not like it if I had.</span>
   <span id="f000464">Perhaps he has pain in his stomach;</span>
   <span id="f000465">I’ll turn him over,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and pat his back,</span>
   <span id="f000467">as nurse does baby’s when she cries for pain like that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">She set the beetle on his legs,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and did her best to comfort him;</span>
   <span id="f000470">but he was evidently in great distress,</span>
   <span id="f000471">for he could not walk,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and instead of lifting his emerald overcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000473">and spreading the wings that lay underneath,</span>
   <span id="f000474">be turned over again,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and kicked more violently than before.</span>
   <span id="f000476">Not knowing what to do,</span>
   <span id="f000477">Nelly put him into one of her soft nests for Tony to cure if possible.</span>
   <span id="f000478">She found no more patients in the garden except a dead bee,</span>
   <span id="f000479">which she wrapped in a leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and took home to bury.</span>
   <span id="f000481">When she came to the grove,</span>
   <span id="f000482">it was so green and cool she longed to sit and listen to the whisper of the pines,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and watch the larch-tassels wave in the wind.</span>
   <span id="f000484">But,</span>
   <span id="f000485">recollecting her charitable errand,</span>
   <span id="f000486">she went rustling along the pleasant path till she came to another patient,</span>
   <span id="f000487">over which she stood considering several minutes before she could decide whether it was best to take it to her hospital,</span>
   <span id="f000488">because it was a little gray snake,</span>
   <span id="f000489">with bruised tail.</span>
   <span id="f000490">She knew it would not hurt her,</span>
   <span id="f000491">yet she was afraid of it;</span>
   <span id="f000492">she thought it pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000493">yet could not like it:</span>
   <span id="f000494">she pitied its pain,</span>
   <span id="f000495">yet shrunk from helping it,</span>
   <span id="f000496">for it had a fiery eye,</span>
   <span id="f000497">and a keep quivering tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000498">that looked as if longing to bite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“He is a rebel,</span>
   <span id="f000500">I wonder if I ought to be good to him,” thought Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000501">watching the reptile writhe with pain.</span>
   <span id="f000502">“Will said there were sick rebels in his hospital,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and one was very kind to him.</span>
   <span id="f000504">It says,</span>
   <span id="f000505">too,</span>
   <span id="f000506">in my little book,</span>
   <span id="f000507">’Love your enemies.’ I think snakes are mine,</span>
   <span id="f000508">but I guess I’ll try and love him because God made him.</span>
   <span id="f000509">Some boy will kill him if I leave him here,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and then perhaps his mother will be very sad about it.</span>
   <span id="f000511">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000512">poor worm,</span>
   <span id="f000513">I wish to help you,</span>
   <span id="f000514">so be patient,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and don’t frighten me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">Then Nelly laid her little handkerchief on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and with a stick gently lifted the wounded snake upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000518">and,</span>
   <span id="f000519">folding it together,</span>
   <span id="f000520">laid it in the ambulance.</span>
   <span id="f000521">She was thoughtful after that,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and so busy puzzling her young head about the duty of loving those who hate us,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and being kind to those who are disagreeable or unkind,</span>
   <span id="f000524">that she went through the rest of the wood quite forgetful of her work.</span>
   <span id="f000525">A soft “Queek,</span>
   <span id="f000526">queek!” made her look up and listen.</span>
   <span id="f000527">The sound came from the long meadow-grass,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and,</span>
   <span id="f000529">bending it carefully back,</span>
   <span id="f000530">she found a half-fledged bird,</span>
   <span id="f000531">with one wing trailing on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and its eyes dim with pain or hunger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“You darling thing,</span>
   <span id="f000534">did you fall out of your nest and hurt your wing?” cried Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000535">looking up into the single tree that stood near by.</span>
   <span id="f000536">No nest was to be seen,</span>
   <span id="f000537">no parent birds hovered overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and little Robin could only tell its troubles in that mournful “Queek,</span>
   <span id="f000539">queek,</span>
   <span id="f000540">queek!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">Nelly ran to get both her chests,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and,</span>
   <span id="f000543">sitting down beside the bird,</span>
   <span id="f000544">tried to feed it.</span>
   <span id="f000545">To her joy it ate crumb after crumb,</span>
   <span id="f000546">as if it were half starved,</span>
   <span id="f000547">and soon fluttered nearer a confiding fearlessness that made her very proud.</span>
   <span id="f000548">Soon baby Robin seemed quite comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000549">his eye brightened,</span>
   <span id="f000550">he “queeked” no more,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and but for the drooping wing would have been himself again.</span>
   <span id="f000552">With one of her bandages Nelly bound both wings closely to his sides for fear he should hurt himself by trying to fly;</span>
   <span id="f000553">and though he seemed amazed at her proceedings,</span>
   <span id="f000554">he behaved very well,</span>
   <span id="f000555">only staring at her,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and ruffling up his few feathers in a funny way that made her laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000557">Then she had to discover some way of accommodating her two larger patients so that neither should hurt nor alarm the other.</span>
   <span id="f000558">A bright thought came to her after much pondering.</span>
   <span id="f000559">Carefully lifting the handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000560">she pinned the two ends to the roof of the cart,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and there swung little Forked-tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000562">while Rob lay easily below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">By this time,</span>
   <span id="f000564">Nelly began to wonder how it happened that she found so many more injured things than ever before.</span>
   <span id="f000565">But it never entered her innocent head that Tony had searched the wood and meadow before she was up,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and laid most of these creatures ready to her hands,</span>
   <span id="f000567">that she might not be disappointed.</span>
   <span id="f000568">She had not yet lost her faith in fairies,</span>
   <span id="f000569">so she fancied they too belonged to her small sisterhood,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and presently it did really seem impossible to doubt that the good folk had been at work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000571">Coming to the bridge that crossed the brook,</span>
   <span id="f000572">she stopped a moment to watch the water ripple over the bright pebbles,</span>
   <span id="f000573">the ferns bend down to drink,</span>
   <span id="f000574">and the funny tadpoles frolic in quieter nooks,</span>
   <span id="f000575">where the sun shone,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and the dragon-flies swung among the rushes.</span>
   <span id="f000577">When Nelly turned to go on,</span>
   <span id="f000578">her blue eyes opened wide,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and the handle of the ambulance dropped with a noise that caused a stout frog to skip into the water heels over head.</span>
   <span id="f000580">Directly in the middle of the bridge was a pretty green tent,</span>
   <span id="f000581">made of two tall burdock leaves.</span>
   <span id="f000582">The stems were stuck into cracks between the boards,</span>
   <span id="f000583">the tips were pinned together with a thorn,</span>
   <span id="f000584">and one great buttercup nodded in the doorway like a sleepy sentinel.</span>
   <span id="f000585">Nelly stared and smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000586">listened,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and looked about on every side.</span>
   <span id="f000588">Nothing was seen but the quiet meadow and the shady grove,</span>
   <span id="f000589">nothing was heard but the babble of the brook and the cheery music of the bobolinks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“Yes,” said Nelly softly to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000591">“that is a fairy tent,</span>
   <span id="f000592">and in it I may find a baby elf sick with whooping-cough or scarlet-fever.</span>
   <span id="f000593">How splendid it would be!</span>
   <span id="f000594">only I could never nurse such a dainty thing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">Stooping eagerly,</span>
   <span id="f000596">she peeped over the buttercup’s drowsy head,</span>
   <span id="f000597">and saw what seemed a tiny cock of hay.</span>
   <span id="f000598">She had no time to feel disappointed,</span>
   <span id="f000599">for the haycock began to stir,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and,</span>
   <span id="f000601">looking nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000602">she beheld two silvery gray mites,</span>
   <span id="f000603">who wagged wee tails,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and stretched themselves as if they had just waked up.</span>
   <span id="f000605">Nelly knew that they were young field-mice,</span>
   <span id="f000606">and rejoiced over them,</span>
   <span id="f000607">feeling rather relieved that no fairy had appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000608">though she still believed them to have had a hand in the matter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">“I shall call the mice my Babes in the Wood,</span>
   <span id="f000610">because they are lost and covered up with leaves,” said Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000611">as she laid them in her snuggest bed,</span>
   <span id="f000612">where they nestled close together,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and fell fast asleep again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">Being very anxious to get home,</span>
   <span id="f000615">that she might tell her adventures,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and show how great was the need of a sanitary commission in that region,</span>
   <span id="f000617">Nelly marched proudly up the avenue,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and,</span>
   <span id="f000619">having displayed her load,</span>
   <span id="f000620">hurried to the hospital,</span>
   <span id="f000621">where another applicant was waiting for her.</span>
   <span id="f000622">On the step of the door lay a large turtle,</span>
   <span id="f000623">with one claw gone,</span>
   <span id="f000624">and on his back was pasted a bit of paper,</span>
   <span id="f000625">with his name,</span>
   <span id="f000626">– “Commodore Waddle,</span>
   <span id="f000627">U.S.N.” Nelly knew this was a joke of Will’s,</span>
   <span id="f000628">but welcomed the ancient mariner,</span>
   <span id="f000629">and called Tony to help her get him in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">All that morning they were very busy settling the new-comers,</span>
   <span id="f000631">for both people and books had to be consulted before they could decide what diet and treatment was best for each.</span>
   <span id="f000632">The winged contraband had taken Nelly at her word,</span>
   <span id="f000633">and flown away on the journey home.</span>
   <span id="f000634">Little Rob was put in a large cage,</span>
   <span id="f000635">where he could use his legs,</span>
   <span id="f000636">yet not injure his lame wing.</span>
   <span id="f000637">Forked-tongue lay under a wire cover,</span>
   <span id="f000638">on sprigs of fennel,</span>
   <span id="f000639">for the gardener said that snakes were fond of it.</span>
   <span id="f000640">The Babes in the Wood were put to bed in one of the rush baskets,</span>
   <span id="f000641">under a cotton-wool coverlet.</span>
   <span id="f000642">Greenback,</span>
   <span id="f000643">the beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000644">found ease for his unknown aches in the warm heart of a rose,</span>
   <span id="f000645">where he sunned himself all day.</span>
   <span id="f000646">The Commodore was made happy in a tub of water,</span>
   <span id="f000647">grass,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and stones,</span>
   <span id="f000649">and Mr.&#160;Fuzz was put in a well-ventilated glass box to decide whether he would be a cocoon or not.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">Tony had not been idle while his mistress was away,</span>
   <span id="f000651">and he showed her the hospital garden he had made close by,</span>
   <span id="f000652">in which were cabbage,</span>
   <span id="f000653">nettle,</span>
   <span id="f000654">and mignonette plants for the butterflies,</span>
   <span id="f000655">flowering herbs for the bees,</span>
   <span id="f000656">chick-weed and hemp for the birds,</span>
   <span id="f000657">catnip for the pussies,</span>
   <span id="f000658">and plenty of room left for whatever other patients might need.</span>
   <span id="f000659">In the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000660">while Nelly did her task at lint-picking,</span>
   <span id="f000661">talking busily to Will as she worked,</span>
   <span id="f000662">and interesting him in her affairs,</span>
   <span id="f000663">Tony cleared a pretty spot in the grove for the burying-ground,</span>
   <span id="f000664">and made ready some small bits of slate on which to write the names of those who died.</span>
   <span id="f000665">He did not have it ready an hour too soon,</span>
   <span id="f000666">for at sunset two little graves were needed,</span>
   <span id="f000667">and Nurse Nelly shed tender tears for her first losses as she laid the motherless mice in one smooth hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000668">and the gray-coated rebel in the other.</span>
   <span id="f000669">She had learned to care for him already,</span>
   <span id="f000670">and when she found him dead,</span>
   <span id="f000671">was very glad she had been kind to him,</span>
   <span id="f000672">hoping that he knew it,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and died happier in her hospital than all alone in the shadowy wood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">The rest of Nelly’s patients prospered,</span>
   <span id="f000675">and of the many added afterward few died,</span>
   <span id="f000676">because of Tony’s skilful treatment and her own faithful care.</span>
   <span id="f000677">Every morning when the day proved fair the little ambulance went out upon its charitable errand;</span>
   <span id="f000678">every afternoon Nelly worked for the human sufferers whom she loved;</span>
   <span id="f000679">and every evening brother Will read aloud to her from useful books,</span>
   <span id="f000680">showed her wonders with his microscope,</span>
   <span id="f000681">or prescribed remedies for the patients,</span>
   <span id="f000682">whom he soon knew by name and took much interest in.</span>
   <span id="f000683">It was Nelly’s holiday;</span>
   <span id="f000684">but,</span>
   <span id="f000685">though she studied no lessons,</span>
   <span id="f000686">she learned much,</span>
   <span id="f000687">and unconsciously made her pretty play both an example and a rebuke for others.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">At first it seemed a childish pastime,</span>
   <span id="f000689">and people laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000690">But there was something in the familiar words “sanitary,” “hospital” and “ambulance” that made them pleasant sounds to many ears.</span>
   <span id="f000691">As reports of Nelly’s work went through the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000692">other children came to see and copy her design.</span>
   <span id="f000693">Rough lads looked ashamed when in her wards they found harmless creatures hurt by them,</span>
   <span id="f000694">and going out they said among themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000695">“We won’t stone birds,</span>
   <span id="f000696">chase butterflies,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and drown the girls’ little cats any more,</span>
   <span id="f000698">though we won’t tell them so.” And most of the lads kept their word so well that people said there never had been so many birds before as all that summer haunted wood and field.</span>
   <span id="f000699">Tender-hearted playmates brought their pets to be cured;</span>
   <span id="f000700">even busy farmers bad a friendly word for the small charity,</span>
   <span id="f000701">which reminded them so sweetly of the great one which should never be forgotten;</span>
   <span id="f000702">lonely mothers sometimes looked out with wet eyes as the little ambulance went by,</span>
   <span id="f000703">recalling thoughts or absent sons who might be journeying painfully to some far-off hospital,</span>
   <span id="f000704">where brave women waited to tend them with hands as willing,</span>
   <span id="f000705">hearts as tender,</span>
   <span id="f000706">as those the gentle child gave to her self-appointed task.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">At home the charm worked also.</span>
   <span id="f000708">No more idle days for Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000709">or fretful ones for Will,</span>
   <span id="f000710">because the little sister would not neglect the helpless creatures so dependent upon her,</span>
   <span id="f000711">and the big brother was ashamed to complain after watching the patience of these lesser sufferers,</span>
   <span id="f000712">and merrily said he would try to bear his own wound as quietly and bravely as the “Commodore” bore his.</span>
   <span id="f000713">Nelly never knew how much good she had done Captain Will till he went away again in the early autumn.</span>
   <span id="f000714">Then he thanked her for it,</span>
   <span id="f000715">and though she cried for joy and sorrow she never forgot it,</span>
   <span id="f000716">because he left something behind him which always pleasantly reminded her of the double success her little hospital had won.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">When Will was gone and she had prayed softly in her heart that God would keep him safe and bring him home again,</span>
   <span id="f000718">she dried her tears and went away to find comfort in the place where he had spent so many happy hours with her.</span>
   <span id="f000719">She had not been there before that day,</span>
   <span id="f000720">and when she reached the door she stood quite still and wanted very much to cry again,</span>
   <span id="f000721">far something beautiful had happened.</span>
   <span id="f000722">She had often asked Will for a motto for her hospital,</span>
   <span id="f000723">and he had promised to find her one.</span>
   <span id="f000724">She thought he had forgotten it;</span>
   <span id="f000725">but even in the hurry of that busy day he had found time to do more than keep his word,</span>
   <span id="f000726">while Nelly sat indoors,</span>
   <span id="f000727">lovingly brightening the tarnished buttons on the blue coat that had seen so many battles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">Above the roof,</span>
   <span id="f000729">where the doves cooed in the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000730">now rustled a white flag with the golden “S.C.” shining on it as the wind tossed it to and fro.</span>
   <span id="f000731">Below,</span>
   <span id="f000732">on the smooth panel of the door,</span>
   <span id="f000733">a skilful pencil had drawn two arching ferns,</span>
   <span id="f000734">in whose soft shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000735">poised upon a mushroom,</span>
   <span id="f000736">stood a little figure of Nurse Nelly,</span>
   <span id="f000737">and underneath it another of Dr.&#160;Tony bottling medicine,</span>
   <span id="f000738">with spectacles upon his nose.</span>
   <span id="f000739">Both hands of the miniature Nelly were outstretched,</span>
   <span id="f000740">as if beckoning to a train of insects,</span>
   <span id="f000741">birds and beasts,</span>
   <span id="f000742">which was so long that it not only circled round the lower rim of this fine sketch,</span>
   <span id="f000743">but dwindled in the distance to mere dots and lines.</span>
   <span id="f000744">Such merry conceits as one found there!</span>
   <span id="f000745">A mouse bringing the tail it had lost in some cruel trap,</span>
   <span id="f000746">a dor-bug with a shade over its eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000747">an invalid butterfly carried in a tiny litter by long-legged spiders,</span>
   <span id="f000748">a fat frog with gouty feet hopping upon crutches,</span>
   <span id="f000749">Jenny Wren sobbing in a nice handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000750">as she brought dear dead Cock Robin to be restored to life.</span>
   <span id="f000751">Rabbits,</span>
   <span id="f000752">lambs,</span>
   <span id="f000753">cats,</span>
   <span id="f000754">calves,</span>
   <span id="f000755">and turtles,</span>
   <span id="f000756">all came trooping up to be healed by the benevolent little maid who welcomed them so heartily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">Nelly laughed at these comical mites till the tears ran down her cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000758">and thought she never could be tired of looking at them.</span>
   <span id="f000759">But presently she saw four lines clearly printed underneath her picture,</span>
   <span id="f000760">and her childish face grew sweetly serious as she read the words of a great poet,</span>
   <span id="f000761">which Will had made both compliment and motto:</span>
   <span id="f000762">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000763">“He prayeth best who loveth best<br /></span>
   <span id="f000764">All things,</span>
   <span id="f000765">both great and small;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000766">For the dear God who loveth us,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000767">He made and loveth all.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

