<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Julie VW</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Bliss</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Katherine Mansfield</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Although Bertha Young was thirty she still had moments like this when she wanted to run instead of walk,</span>
   <span id="f000008">to take dancing steps on and off the pavement,</span>
   <span id="f000009">to bowl a hoop,</span>
   <span id="f000010">to throw something up in the air and catch it again,</span>
   <span id="f000011">or to stand still and laugh at – nothing – at nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000012">simply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">What can you do if you are thirty and,</span>
   <span id="f000014">turning the corner of your own street,</span>
   <span id="f000015">you are overcome,</span>
   <span id="f000016">suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000017">by a feeling of bliss – absolute bliss!</span>
   <span id="f000018">– as though you’d suddenly swallowed a bright piece of that late afternoon sun and it burned in your bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000019">sending out a little shower of sparks into every particle,</span>
   <span id="f000020">into every finger and toe?…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000022">is there no way you can express it without being “drunk and disorderly”?</span>
   <span id="f000023">How idiotic civilization is!</span>
   <span id="f000024">Why be given a body if you have to keep it shut up in a case like a rare,</span>
   <span id="f000025">rare fiddle?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000027">that about the fiddle is not quite what I mean,” she thought,</span>
   <span id="f000028">running up the steps and feeling in her bag for the key – she’d forgotten it,</span>
   <span id="f000029">as usual – and rattling the letter-box.</span>
   <span id="f000030">“It’s not what I mean,</span>
   <span id="f000031">because – Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000032">Mary” – she went into the hall.</span>
   <span id="f000033">“Is nurse back?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000035">M’m.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“And has the fruit come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000038">M’m.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Everything’s come.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“Bring the fruit up to the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000041">will you?</span>
   <span id="f000042">I’ll arrange it before I go upstairs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">It was dusky in the dining-room and quite chilly.</span>
   <span id="f000044">But all the same Bertha threw off her coat;</span>
   <span id="f000045">she could not bear the tight clasp of it another moment,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and the cold air fell on her arms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">But in her bosom there was still that bright glowing place – that shower of little sparks coming from it.</span>
   <span id="f000048">It was almost unbearable.</span>
   <span id="f000049">She hardly dared to breathe for fear of fanning it higher,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and yet she breathed deeply,</span>
   <span id="f000051">deeply.</span>
   <span id="f000052">She hardly dared to look into the cold mirror – but she did look,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and it gave her back a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000054">radiant,</span>
   <span id="f000055">with smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000056">trembling lips,</span>
   <span id="f000057">with big,</span>
   <span id="f000058">dark eyes and an air of listening,</span>
   <span id="f000059">waiting for something…</span>
   <span id="f000060">divine to happen…</span>
   <span id="f000061">that she knew must happen…</span>
   <span id="f000062">infallibly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">Mary brought in the fruit on a tray and with it a glass bowl,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and a blue dish,</span>
   <span id="f000065">very lovely,</span>
   <span id="f000066">with a strange sheen on it as though it had been dipped in milk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“Shall I turn on the light,</span>
   <span id="f000068">M’m?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000070">thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000071">I can see quite well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">There were tangerines and apples stained with strawberry pink.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Some yellow pears,</span>
   <span id="f000074">smooth as silk,</span>
   <span id="f000075">some white grapes covered with a silver bloom and a big cluster of purple ones.</span>
   <span id="f000076">These last she had bought to tone in with the new dining-room carpet.</span>
   <span id="f000077">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000078">that did sound rather far-fetched and absurd,</span>
   <span id="f000079">but it was really why she had bought them.</span>
   <span id="f000080">She had thought in the shop:</span>
   <span id="f000081">“I must have some purple ones to bring the carpet up to the table.” And it had seemed quite sense at the time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">When she had finished with them and had made two pyramids of these bright round shapes,</span>
   <span id="f000083">she stood away from the table to get the effect – and it really was most curious.</span>
   <span id="f000084">For the dark table seemed to melt into the dusky light and the glass dish and the blue bowl to float in the air.</span>
   <span id="f000085">This,</span>
   <span id="f000086">of course in her present mood,</span>
   <span id="f000087">was so incredibly beautiful…</span>
   <span id="f000088">She began to laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000090">no.</span>
   <span id="f000091">I’m getting hysterical.” And she seized her bag and coat and ran upstairs to the nursery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">Nurse sat at a low table giving Little B her supper after her bath.</span>
   <span id="f000093">The baby had on a white flannel gown and a blue woollen jacket,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and her dark,</span>
   <span id="f000095">fine hair was brushed up into a funny little peak.</span>
   <span id="f000096">She looked up when she saw her mother and began to jump.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000098">my lovey,</span>
   <span id="f000099">eat it up like a good girl,” said Nurse,</span>
   <span id="f000100">setting her lips in a way that Bertha knew,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and that meant she had come into the nursery at another wrong moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“Has she been good,</span>
   <span id="f000103">Nanny?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“She’s been a little sweet all the afternoon,” whispered Nanny.</span>
   <span id="f000105">“We went to the park and I sat down on a chair and took her out of the pram and a big dog came along and put its head on my knee and she clutched its ear,</span>
   <span id="f000106">tugged it.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000108">you should have seen her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">Bertha wanted to ask if it wasn’t rather dangerous to let her clutch at a strange dog’s ear.</span>
   <span id="f000110">But she did not dare to.</span>
   <span id="f000111">She stood watching them,</span>
   <span id="f000112">her hands by her side,</span>
   <span id="f000113">like the poor little girl in front of the rich little girl with the doll.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">The baby looked up at her again,</span>
   <span id="f000115">stared,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and then smiled so charmingly that Bertha couldn’t help crying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000118">Nanny,</span>
   <span id="f000119">do let me finish giving her her supper while you put the bath things away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000121">M’m,</span>
   <span id="f000122">she oughtn’t to be changed hands while she’s eating,” said Nanny,</span>
   <span id="f000123">still whispering.</span>
   <span id="f000124">“It unsettles her;</span>
   <span id="f000125">it’s very likely to upset her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">How absurd it was.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Why have a baby if it has to be kept – not in a case like a rare,</span>
   <span id="f000128">rare fiddle – but in another woman’s arms?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000130">I must!” said she.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">Very offended,</span>
   <span id="f000132">Nanny handed her over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000134">don’t excite her after her supper.</span>
   <span id="f000135">You know you do,</span>
   <span id="f000136">M’m.</span>
   <span id="f000137">And I have such a time with her after!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">Thank heaven!</span>
   <span id="f000139">Nanny went out of the room with the bath towels.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“Now I’ve got you to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000141">my little precious,” said Bertha,</span>
   <span id="f000142">as the baby leaned against her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">She ate delightfully,</span>
   <span id="f000144">holding up her lips for spoon and then waving her hands.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Sometimes she wouldn’t let the spoon go;</span>
   <span id="f000146">and sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000147">just as Bertha had filled it,</span>
   <span id="f000148">she waved it away to the four winds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">When the soup was finished Bertha turned round to the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“You’re nice – you’re very nice!” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000151">kissing her warm baby.</span>
   <span id="f000152">“I’m fond of you.</span>
   <span id="f000153">I like you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">And,</span>
   <span id="f000155">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000156">she loved Little B so much – her neck as she bent forward,</span>
   <span id="f000157">her exquisite toes as they shone transparent in the firelight – that all her feeling of bliss came back again,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and again she didn’t know how to express it – what to do with it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“You’re wanted on the telephone,” said Nanny,</span>
   <span id="f000160">coming back in triumph and seizing <em>her</em> Little B.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">Down she flew.</span>
   <span id="f000162">It was Harry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000164">is that you,</span>
   <span id="f000165">Ber?</span>
   <span id="f000166">Look here.</span>
   <span id="f000167">I’ll be late.</span>
   <span id="f000168">I’ll take a taxi and come along as quickly as I can,</span>
   <span id="f000169">but get dinner put back ten minutes – will you?</span>
   <span id="f000170">All right?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000172">perfectly.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000174">Harry!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“Yes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">What had she to say?</span>
   <span id="f000177">She’d nothing to say.</span>
   <span id="f000178">She only wanted to get in touch with him for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000179">She couldn’t absurdly cry:</span>
   <span id="f000180">“Hasn’t it been a divine day!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“What is it?” rapped out the little voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000183"><em>Entendu</em>,” said Bertha,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and hung up the receiver,</span>
   <span id="f000185">thinking how more than idiotic civilization was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">They had people coming to dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000187">The Norman Knights – a very sound couple – he was about to start a theatre,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and she was awfully keen on interior decoration,</span>
   <span id="f000189">a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000190">Eddie Warren,</span>
   <span id="f000191">who had just published a little book of poems and whom everybody was asking to dine,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and a “find” of Bertha’s called Pearl Fulton.</span>
   <span id="f000193">What Miss Fulton did,</span>
   <span id="f000194">Bertha didn’t know.</span>
   <span id="f000195">They had met at the club and Bertha had fallen in love with her,</span>
   <span id="f000196">as she always did fall in love with beautiful women who had something strange about them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">The provoking thing was that,</span>
   <span id="f000198">though they had been about together and met a number of times and really talked,</span>
   <span id="f000199">Bertha couldn’t yet make her out.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Up to a certain point Miss Fulton was rarely,</span>
   <span id="f000201">wonderfully frank,</span>
   <span id="f000202">but the certain point was there,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and beyond that she would not go.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">Was there anything beyond it?</span>
   <span id="f000205">Harry said “No.” Voted her dullish,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and “cold like all blond women,</span>
   <span id="f000207">with a touch,</span>
   <span id="f000208">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000209">of anæmia of the brain.” But Bertha wouldn’t agree with him;</span>
   <span id="f000210">not yet,</span>
   <span id="f000211">at any rate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000213">the way she has of sitting with her head a little on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000215">has something behind it,</span>
   <span id="f000216">Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and I must find out what that something is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“Most likely it’s a good stomach,” answered Harry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">He made a point of catching Bertha’s heels with replies of that kind…</span>
   <span id="f000220">“liver frozen,</span>
   <span id="f000221">my dear girl,” or “pure flatulence,” or “kidney disease,”…</span>
   <span id="f000222">and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000223">For some strange reason Bertha liked this,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and almost admired it in him very much.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">She went into the drawing-room and lighted the fire;</span>
   <span id="f000226">then,</span>
   <span id="f000227">picking up the cushions,</span>
   <span id="f000228">one by one,</span>
   <span id="f000229">that Mary had disposed so carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000230">she threw them back on to the chairs and the couches.</span>
   <span id="f000231">That made all the difference;</span>
   <span id="f000232">the room came alive at once.</span>
   <span id="f000233">As she was about to throw the last one she surprised herself by suddenly hugging it to her,</span>
   <span id="f000234">passionately,</span>
   <span id="f000235">passionately.</span>
   <span id="f000236">But it did not put out the fire in her bosom.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000238">on the contrary!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">The windows of the drawing-room opened on to a balcony overlooking the garden.</span>
   <span id="f000240">At the far end,</span>
   <span id="f000241">against the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000242">there was a tall,</span>
   <span id="f000243">slender pear tree in fullest,</span>
   <span id="f000244">richest bloom;</span>
   <span id="f000245">it stood perfect,</span>
   <span id="f000246">as though becalmed against the jade-green sky.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Bertha couldn’t help feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000248">even from this distance,</span>
   <span id="f000249">that it had not a single bud or a faded petal.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Down below,</span>
   <span id="f000251">in the garden beds,</span>
   <span id="f000252">the red and yellow tulips,</span>
   <span id="f000253">heavy with flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000254">seemed to lean upon the dusk.</span>
   <span id="f000255">A grey cat,</span>
   <span id="f000256">dragging its belly,</span>
   <span id="f000257">crept across the lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and a black one,</span>
   <span id="f000259">its shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000260">trailed after.</span>
   <span id="f000261">The sight of them,</span>
   <span id="f000262">so intent and so quick,</span>
   <span id="f000263">gave Bertha a curious shiver.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“What creepy things cats are!” she stammered,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and she turned away from the window and began walking up and down…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">How strong the jonquils smelled in the warm room.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Too strong?</span>
   <span id="f000268">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000269">no.</span>
   <span id="f000270">And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000271">as though overcome,</span>
   <span id="f000272">she flung down on a couch and pressed her hands to her eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“I’m too happy – too happy!” she murmured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">And she seemed to see on her eyelids the lovely pear tree with its wide open blossoms as a symbol of her own life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">Really – really – she had everything.</span>
   <span id="f000276">She was young.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Harry and she were as much in love as ever,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and they got on together splendidly and were really good pals.</span>
   <span id="f000279">She had an adorable baby.</span>
   <span id="f000280">They didn’t have to worry about money.</span>
   <span id="f000281">They had this absolutely satisfactory house and garden.</span>
   <span id="f000282">And friends – modern,</span>
   <span id="f000283">thrilling friends,</span>
   <span id="f000284">writers and painters and poets or people keen on social questions – just the kind of friends they wanted.</span>
   <span id="f000285">And then there were books,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and there was music,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and she had found a wonderful little dressmaker,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and they were going abroad in the summer,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and their new cook made the most superb omelettes…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“I’m absurd.</span>
   <span id="f000291">Absurd!” She sat up;</span>
   <span id="f000292">but she felt quite dizzy,</span>
   <span id="f000293">quite drunk.</span>
   <span id="f000294">It must have been the spring.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000296">it was the spring.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Now she was so tired she could not drag herself upstairs to dress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">A white dress,</span>
   <span id="f000299">a string of jade beads,</span>
   <span id="f000300">green shoes and stockings.</span>
   <span id="f000301">It wasn’t intentional.</span>
   <span id="f000302">She had thought of this scheme hours before she stood at the drawing-room window.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">Her petals rustled softly into the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and she kissed Mrs.&#160;Norman Knight,</span>
   <span id="f000305">who was taking off the most amusing orange coat with a procession of black monkeys round the hem and up the fronts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“…</span>
   <span id="f000307">Why!</span>
   <span id="f000308">Why!</span>
   <span id="f000309">Why is the middle-class so stodgy – so utterly without a sense of humour!</span>
   <span id="f000310">My dear,</span>
   <span id="f000311">it’s only by a fluke that I am here at all – Norman being the protective fluke.</span>
   <span id="f000312">For my darling monkeys so upset the train that it rose to a man and simply ate me with its eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Didn’t laugh – wasn’t amused – that I should have loved.</span>
   <span id="f000314">No,</span>
   <span id="f000315">just stared – and bored me through and through.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“But the cream of it was,” said Norman,</span>
   <span id="f000317">pressing a large tortoiseshell-rimmed monocle into his eye,</span>
   <span id="f000318">“you don’t mind me telling this,</span>
   <span id="f000319">Face,</span>
   <span id="f000320">do you?”</span>
   <span id="f000321">(In their home and among their friends they called each other Face and Mug.)</span>
   <span id="f000322">“The cream of it was when she,</span>
   <span id="f000323">being full fed,</span>
   <span id="f000324">turned to the woman beside her and said:</span>
   <span id="f000325">’Haven’t you ever seen a monkey before?’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000327">yes!” Mrs.&#160;Norman Knight joined in the laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000328">“Wasn’t that too absolutely creamy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">And a funnier thing still was that now her coat was off she did look like a very intelligent monkey – who had even made that yellow silk dress out of scraped banana skins.</span>
   <span id="f000330">And her amber ear-rings;</span>
   <span id="f000331">they were like little dangling nuts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“This is a sad,</span>
   <span id="f000333">sad fall!” said Mug,</span>
   <span id="f000334">pausing in front of Little B’s perambulator.</span>
   <span id="f000335">“When the perambulator comes into the hall – ” and he waved the rest of the quotation away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">The bell rang.</span>
   <span id="f000337">It was lean,</span>
   <span id="f000338">pale Eddie Warren</span>
   <span id="f000339">(as usual)</span>
   <span id="f000340">in a state of acute distress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">“It <em>is</em> the right house,</span>
   <span id="f000342"><em>isn’t</em> it?” he pleaded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000344">I think so – I hope so,” said Bertha brightly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“I have had such a <em>dreadful</em> experience with a taxi-man;</span>
   <span id="f000346">he was <em>most</em> sinister.</span>
   <span id="f000347">I couldn’t get him to <em>stop.</em> The <em>more</em> I knocked and called the <em>faster</em> he went.</span>
   <span id="f000348">And <em>in</em> the moonlight this <em>bizarre</em> figure with the <em>flattened</em> head <em>crouching</em> over the <em>lit-tle</em> wheel…</span>
   <span id="f000349">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">He shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000351">taking off an immense white silk scarf.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Bertha noticed that his socks were white,</span>
   <span id="f000353">too – most charming.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">“But how dreadful!” she cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000356">it really was,” said Eddie,</span>
   <span id="f000357">following her into the drawing-room.</span>
   <span id="f000358">“I saw myself <em>driving</em> through Eternity in a <em>timeless</em> taxi.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">He knew the Norman Knights.</span>
   <span id="f000360">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000361">he was going to write a play for N.</span>
   <span id="f000362">K.</span>
   <span id="f000363">when the theatre scheme came off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000365">Warren,</span>
   <span id="f000366">how’s the play?” said Norman Knight,</span>
   <span id="f000367">dropping his monocle and giving his eye a moment in which to rise to the surface before it was screwed down again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">And Mrs.&#160;Norman Knight:</span>
   <span id="f000369">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000370">Mr.&#160;Warren,</span>
   <span id="f000371">what happy socks?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">“I <em>am</em> so glad you like them,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000373">staring at his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000374">“They seem to have got so <em>much</em> whiter since the moon rose.” And he turned his lean sorrowful young face to Bertha.</span>
   <span id="f000375">“There <em>is</em> a moon,</span>
   <span id="f000376">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">She wanted to cry:</span>
   <span id="f000378">“I am sure there is – often – often!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">He really was a most attractive person.</span>
   <span id="f000380">But so was Face,</span>
   <span id="f000381">crouched before the fire in her banana skins,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and so was Mug,</span>
   <span id="f000383">smoking a cigarette and saying as he flicked the ash:</span>
   <span id="f000384">“Why doth the bridegroom tarry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">“There he is,</span>
   <span id="f000386">now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">Bang went the front door open and shut.</span>
   <span id="f000388">Harry shouted:</span>
   <span id="f000389">“Hullo,</span>
   <span id="f000390">you people.</span>
   <span id="f000391">Down in five minutes.” And they heard him swarm up the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000392">Bertha couldn’t help smiling;</span>
   <span id="f000393">she knew how he loved doing things at high pressure.</span>
   <span id="f000394">What,</span>
   <span id="f000395">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000396">did an extra five minutes matter?</span>
   <span id="f000397">But he would pretend to himself that they mattered beyond measure.</span>
   <span id="f000398">And then he would make a great point of coming into the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000399">extravagantly cool and collected.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">Harry had such a zest for life.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000402">how she appreciated it in him.</span>
   <span id="f000403">And his passion for fighting – for seeking in everything that came up against him another test of his power and of his courage – that,</span>
   <span id="f000404">too,</span>
   <span id="f000405">she understood.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Even when it made him just occasionally,</span>
   <span id="f000407">to other people,</span>
   <span id="f000408">who didn’t know him well,</span>
   <span id="f000409">a little ridiculous perhaps…</span>
   <span id="f000410">For there were moments when he rushed into battle where no battle was…</span>
   <span id="f000411">She talked and laughed and positively forgot until he had come in</span>
   <span id="f000412">(just as she had imagined)</span>
   <span id="f000413">that Pearl Fulton had not turned up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“I wonder if Miss Fulton has forgotten?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“I expect so,” said Harry.</span>
   <span id="f000416">“Is she on the ’phone?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000418">There’s a taxi,</span>
   <span id="f000419">now.” And Bertha smiled with that little air of proprietorship that she always assumed while her women finds were new and mysterious.</span>
   <span id="f000420">“She lives in taxis.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">“She’ll run to fat if she does,” said Harry coolly,</span>
   <span id="f000422">ringing the bell for dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000423">“Frightful danger for blond women.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“Harry – don’t,” warned Bertha,</span>
   <span id="f000425">laughing up at him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">Came another tiny moment,</span>
   <span id="f000427">while they waited,</span>
   <span id="f000428">laughing and talking,</span>
   <span id="f000429">just a trifle too much at their ease,</span>
   <span id="f000430">a trifle too unaware.</span>
   <span id="f000431">And then Miss Fulton,</span>
   <span id="f000432">all in silver,</span>
   <span id="f000433">with a silver fillet binding her pale blond hair,</span>
   <span id="f000434">came in smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000435">her head a little on one side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">“Am I late?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000438">not at all,” said Bertha.</span>
   <span id="f000439">“Come along.” And she took her arm and they moved into the dining-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">What was there in the touch of that cool arm that could fan – fan – start blazing – blazing – the fire of bliss that Bertha did not know what to do with?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">Miss Fulton did not look at her;</span>
   <span id="f000442">but then she seldom did look at people directly.</span>
   <span id="f000443">Her heavy eyelids lay upon her eyes and the strange half smile came and went upon her lips as though she lived by listening rather than seeing.</span>
   <span id="f000444">But Bertha knew,</span>
   <span id="f000445">suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000446">as if the longest,</span>
   <span id="f000447">most intimate look had passed between them – as if they had said to each other:</span>
   <span id="f000448">“You,</span>
   <span id="f000449">too?” – that Pearl Fulton stirring the beautiful red soup in the grey plate was feeling just what she was feeling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">And the others?</span>
   <span id="f000451">Face and Mug,</span>
   <span id="f000452">Eddie and Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000453">their spoons rising and falling – dabbing their lips with their napkins,</span>
   <span id="f000454">crumbling bread,</span>
   <span id="f000455">fiddling with the forks and glasses and talking.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“I met her at the Alpha show – the weirdest little person.</span>
   <span id="f000457">She’d not only cut off her hair,</span>
   <span id="f000458">but she seemed to have taken a dreadfully good snip off her legs and arms and her neck and her poor little nose as well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“Isn’t she very <em>liée</em> with Michael Oat?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">“The man who wrote <em>Love in False Teeth?</em>”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“He wants to write a play for me.</span>
   <span id="f000462">One act.</span>
   <span id="f000463">One man.</span>
   <span id="f000464">Decides to commit suicide.</span>
   <span id="f000465">Gives all the reasons why he should and why he shouldn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000466">And just as he has made up his mind either to do it or not to do it – curtain.</span>
   <span id="f000467">Not half a bad idea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“What’s he going to call it – ’Stomach Trouble’?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“I <em>think</em> I’ve come across the same <em>idea</em> in a lit-tle French review,</span>
   <span id="f000470"><em>quite</em> unknown in England.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">No,</span>
   <span id="f000472">they didn’t share it.</span>
   <span id="f000473">They were dears – dears – and she loved having them there,</span>
   <span id="f000474">at her table,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and giving them delicious food and wine.</span>
   <span id="f000476">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000477">she longed to tell them how delightful they were,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and what a decorative group they made,</span>
   <span id="f000479">how they seemed to set one another off and how they reminded her of a play by Tchekof!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">Harry was enjoying his dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000481">It was part of his – well,</span>
   <span id="f000482">not his nature,</span>
   <span id="f000483">exactly,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and certainly not his pose – his – something or other – to talk about food and to glory in his “shameless passion for the white flesh of the lobster” and “the green of pistachio ices – green and cold like the eyelids of Egyptian dancers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">When he looked up at her and said:</span>
   <span id="f000486">“Bertha,</span>
   <span id="f000487">this is a very admirable <em>soufflée!</em>” she almost could have wept with child-like pleasure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000489">why did she feel so tender towards the whole world to-night?</span>
   <span id="f000490">Everything was good – was right.</span>
   <span id="f000491">All that happened seemed to fill again her brimming cup of bliss.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">And still,</span>
   <span id="f000493">in the back of her mind,</span>
   <span id="f000494">there was the pear tree.</span>
   <span id="f000495">It would be silver now,</span>
   <span id="f000496">in the light of poor dear Eddie’s moon,</span>
   <span id="f000497">silver as Miss Fulton,</span>
   <span id="f000498">who sat there turning a tangerine in her slender fingers that were so pale a light seemed to come from them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">What she simply couldn’t make out – what was miraculous – was how she should have guessed Miss Fulton’s mood so exactly and so instantly.</span>
   <span id="f000500">For she never doubted for a moment that she was right,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and yet what had she to go on?</span>
   <span id="f000502">Less than nothing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">“I believe this does happen very,</span>
   <span id="f000504">very rarely between women.</span>
   <span id="f000505">Never between men,” thought Bertha.</span>
   <span id="f000506">“But while I am making the coffee in the drawing-room perhaps she will ’give a sign.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">What she meant by that she did not know,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and what would happen after that she could not imagine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">While she thought like this she saw herself talking and laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000510">She had to talk because of her desire to laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“I must laugh or die.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">But when she noticed Face’s funny little habit of tucking something down the front of her bodice – as if she kept a tiny,</span>
   <span id="f000513">secret hoard of nuts there,</span>
   <span id="f000514">too – Bertha had to dig her nails into her hands – so as not to laugh too much.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">It was over at last.</span>
   <span id="f000516">And:</span>
   <span id="f000517">“Come and see my new coffee machine,” said Bertha.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">“We only have a new coffee machine once a fortnight,” said Harry.</span>
   <span id="f000519">Face took her arm this time;</span>
   <span id="f000520">Miss Fulton bent her head and followed after.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">The fire had died down in the drawing-room to a red,</span>
   <span id="f000522">flickering “nest of baby phoenixes,” said Face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“Don’t turn up the light for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000524">It is so lovely.” And down she crouched by the fire again.</span>
   <span id="f000525">She was always cold…</span>
   <span id="f000526">“without her little red flannel jacket,</span>
   <span id="f000527">of course,” thought Bertha.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">At that moment Miss Fulton “gave the sign.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">“Have you a garden?” said the cool,</span>
   <span id="f000530">sleepy voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">This was so exquisite on her part that all Bertha could do was to obey.</span>
   <span id="f000532">She crossed the room,</span>
   <span id="f000533">pulled the curtains apart,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and opened those long windows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“There!” she breathed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">And the two women stood side by side looking at the slender,</span>
   <span id="f000537">flowering tree.</span>
   <span id="f000538">Although it was so still it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000539">like the flame of a candle,</span>
   <span id="f000540">to stretch up,</span>
   <span id="f000541">to point,</span>
   <span id="f000542">to quiver in the bright air,</span>
   <span id="f000543">to grow taller and taller as they gazed – almost to touch the rim of the round,</span>
   <span id="f000544">silver moon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">How long did they stand there?</span>
   <span id="f000546">Both,</span>
   <span id="f000547">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000548">caught in that circle of unearthly light,</span>
   <span id="f000549">understanding each other perfectly,</span>
   <span id="f000550">creatures of another world,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and wondering what they were to do in this one with all this blissful treasure that burned in their bosoms and dropped,</span>
   <span id="f000552">in silver flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000553">from their hair and hands?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">For ever – for a moment?</span>
   <span id="f000555">And did Miss Fulton murmur:</span>
   <span id="f000556">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000557">Just <em>that.</em>” Or did Bertha dream it?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">Then the light was snapped on and Face made the coffee and Harry said:</span>
   <span id="f000559">“My dear Mrs.&#160;Knight,</span>
   <span id="f000560">don’t ask me about my baby.</span>
   <span id="f000561">I never see her.</span>
   <span id="f000562">I shan’t feel the slightest interest in her until she has a lover,” and Mug took his eye out of the conservatory for a moment and then put it under glass again and Eddie Warren drank his coffee and set down the cup with a face of anguish as though he had drunk and seen the spider.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">“What I want to do is to give the young men a show.</span>
   <span id="f000564">I believe London is simply teeming with first-chop,</span>
   <span id="f000565">unwritten plays.</span>
   <span id="f000566">What I want to say to ’em is:</span>
   <span id="f000567">’Here’s the theatre.</span>
   <span id="f000568">Fire ahead.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000569">“You know,</span>
   <span id="f000570">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000571">I am going to decorate a room for the Jacob Nathans.</span>
   <span id="f000572">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000573">I am so tempted to do a fried-fish scheme,</span>
   <span id="f000574">with the backs of the chairs shaped like frying pans and lovely chip potatoes embroidered all over the curtains.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">“The trouble with our young writing men is that they are still too romantic.</span>
   <span id="f000576">You can’t put out to sea without being seasick and wanting a basin.</span>
   <span id="f000577">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000578">why won’t they have the courage of those basins?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">“A <em>dreadful</em> poem about a <em>girl</em> who was <em>violated</em> by a beggar without a nose in a lit-tle wood…</span>
   <span id="f000580">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">Miss Fulton sank into the lowest,</span>
   <span id="f000582">deepest chair and Harry handed round the cigarettes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">From the way he stood in front of her shaking the silver box and saying abruptly:</span>
   <span id="f000584">“Egyptian?</span>
   <span id="f000585">Turkish?</span>
   <span id="f000586">Virginian?</span>
   <span id="f000587">They’re all mixed up,” Bertha realized that she not only bored him;</span>
   <span id="f000588">he really disliked her.</span>
   <span id="f000589">And she decided from the way Miss Fulton said:</span>
   <span id="f000590">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000591">thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000592">I won’t smoke,” that she felt it,</span>
   <span id="f000593">too,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and was hurt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000596">Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000597">don’t dislike her.</span>
   <span id="f000598">You are quite wrong about her.</span>
   <span id="f000599">She’s wonderful,</span>
   <span id="f000600">wonderful.</span>
   <span id="f000601">And,</span>
   <span id="f000602">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000603">how can you feel so differently about someone who means so much to me.</span>
   <span id="f000604">I shall try to tell you when we are in bed to-night what has been happening.</span>
   <span id="f000605">What she and I have shared.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">At those last words something strange and almost terrifying darted into Bertha’s mind.</span>
   <span id="f000607">And this something blind and smiling whispered to her:</span>
   <span id="f000608">“Soon these people will go.</span>
   <span id="f000609">The house will be quiet – quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000610">The lights will be out.</span>
   <span id="f000611">And you and he will be alone together in the dark room – the warm bed…</span>
   <span id="f000612">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">She jumped up from her chair and ran over to the piano.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">“What a pity someone does not play!” she cried.</span>
   <span id="f000615">“What a pity somebody does not play.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">For the first time in her life Bertha Young desired her husband.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000618">she’d loved him – she’d been in love with him,</span>
   <span id="f000619">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000620">in every other way,</span>
   <span id="f000621">but just not in that way.</span>
   <span id="f000622">And,</span>
   <span id="f000623">equally,</span>
   <span id="f000624">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000625">she’d understood that he was different.</span>
   <span id="f000626">They’d discussed it so often.</span>
   <span id="f000627">It had worried her dreadfully at first to find that she was so cold,</span>
   <span id="f000628">but after a time it had not seemed to matter.</span>
   <span id="f000629">They were so frank with each other – such good pals.</span>
   <span id="f000630">That was the best of being modern.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">But now – ardently!</span>
   <span id="f000632">ardently!</span>
   <span id="f000633">The word ached in her ardent body!</span>
   <span id="f000634">Was this what that feeling of bliss had been leading up to?</span>
   <span id="f000635">But then then –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">“My dear,” said Mrs.&#160;Norman Knight,</span>
   <span id="f000637">“you know our shame.</span>
   <span id="f000638">We are the victims of time and train.</span>
   <span id="f000639">We live in Hampstead.</span>
   <span id="f000640">It’s been so nice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">“I’ll come with you into the hall,” said Bertha.</span>
   <span id="f000642">“I loved having you.</span>
   <span id="f000643">But you must not miss the last train.</span>
   <span id="f000644">That’s so awful,</span>
   <span id="f000645">isn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“Have a whisky,</span>
   <span id="f000647">Knight,</span>
   <span id="f000648">before you go?” called Harry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000650">thanks,</span>
   <span id="f000651">old chap.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">Bertha squeezed his hand for that as she shook it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">“Good night,</span>
   <span id="f000654">good-bye,” she cried from the top step,</span>
   <span id="f000655">feeling that this self of hers was taking leave of them for ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">When she got back into the drawing-room the others were on the move.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000657">“…</span>
   <span id="f000658">Then you can come part of the way in my taxi.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">“I shall be <em>so</em> thankful <em>not</em> to have to face <em>another</em> drive <em>alone</em> after my <em>dreadful</em> experience.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000660">“You can get a taxi at the rank just at the end of the street.</span>
   <span id="f000661">You won’t have to walk more than a few yards.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">“That’s a comfort.</span>
   <span id="f000663">I’ll go and put on my coat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">Miss Fulton moved towards the hall and Bertha was following when Harry almost pushed past.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">“Let me help you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">Bertha knew that he was repenting his rudeness – she let him go.</span>
   <span id="f000667">What a boy he was in some ways – so impulsive – so – simple.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">And Eddie and she were left by the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">“I <em>wonder</em> if you have seen Bilks’ <em>new</em> poem called <em>Table d’Hôte</em>,” said Eddie softly.</span>
   <span id="f000670">“It’s <em>so</em> wonderful.</span>
   <span id="f000671">In the last Anthology.</span>
   <span id="f000672">Have you got a copy?</span>
   <span id="f000673">I’d <em>so</em> like to <em>show</em> it to you.</span>
   <span id="f000674">It begins with an <em>incredibly</em> beautiful line:</span>
   <span id="f000675">’Why Must it Always be Tomato Soup?’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">“Yes,” said Bertha.</span>
   <span id="f000677">And she moved noiselessly to a table opposite the drawing-room door and Eddie glided noiselessly after her.</span>
   <span id="f000678">She picked up the little book and gave it to him;</span>
   <span id="f000679">they had not made a sound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000680">While he looked it up she turned her head towards the hall.</span>
   <span id="f000681">And she saw…</span>
   <span id="f000682">Harry with Miss Fulton’s coat in his arms and Miss Fulton with her back turned to him and her head bent.</span>
   <span id="f000683">He tossed the coat away,</span>
   <span id="f000684">put his hands on her shoulders and turned her violently to him.</span>
   <span id="f000685">His lips said:</span>
   <span id="f000686">“I adore you,” and Miss Fulton laid her moonbeam fingers on his cheeks and smiled her sleepy smile.</span>
   <span id="f000687">Harry’s nostrils quivered;</span>
   <span id="f000688">his lips curled back in a hideous grin while he whispered:</span>
   <span id="f000689">“To-morrow,” and with her eyelids Miss Fulton said:</span>
   <span id="f000690">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">“Here it is,” said Eddie.</span>
   <span id="f000692">“’Why Must it Always be Tomato Soup?’ It’s so <em>deeply</em> true,</span>
   <span id="f000693">don’t you feel?</span>
   <span id="f000694">Tomato soup is so <em>dreadfully</em> eternal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000695">“If you prefer,” said Harry’s voice,</span>
   <span id="f000696">very loud,</span>
   <span id="f000697">from the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000698">“I can phone you a cab to come to the door.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000699">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000700">no.</span>
   <span id="f000701">It’s not necessary,” said Miss Fulton,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and she came up to Bertha and gave her the slender fingers to hold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">“Good-bye.</span>
   <span id="f000704">Thank you so much.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000705">“Good-bye,” said Bertha.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000706">Miss Fulton held her hand a moment longer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">“Your lovely pear tree!” she murmured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000708">And then she was gone,</span>
   <span id="f000709">with Eddie following,</span>
   <span id="f000710">like the black cat following the grey cat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“I’ll shut up shop,” said Harry,</span>
   <span id="f000712">extravagantly cool and collected.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“Your lovely pear tree – pear tree – pear tree!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000714">Bertha simply ran over to the long windows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000716">what is going to happen now?” she cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">But the pear tree was as lovely as ever and as full of flower and as still.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

