<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />Justin Brett</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000004">The Lumber-Room</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000005">by<br />Saki</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000006">The children were to be driven,</span>
   <span id="f000007">as a special treat,</span>
   <span id="f000008">to the sands at Jagborough.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Nicholas was not to be of the party;</span>
   <span id="f000010">he was in disgrace.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Only that morning he had refused to eat his wholesome bread-and-milk on the seemingly frivolous ground that there was a frog in it.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Older and wiser and better people had told him that there could not possibly be a frog in his bread-and-milk and that he was not to talk nonsense;</span>
   <span id="f000013">he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000014">nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000015">to talk what seemed the veriest nonsense,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and described with much detail the colouration and markings of the alleged frog.</span>
   <span id="f000017">The dramatic part of the incident was that there really was a frog in Nicholas’ basin of bread-and-milk;</span>
   <span id="f000018">he had put it there himself,</span>
   <span id="f000019">so he felt entitled to know something about it.</span>
   <span id="f000020">The sin of taking a frog from the garden and putting it into a bowl of wholesome bread-and-milk was enlarged on at great length,</span>
   <span id="f000021">but the fact that stood out clearest in the whole affair,</span>
   <span id="f000022">as it presented itself to the mind of Nicholas,</span>
   <span id="f000023">was that the older,</span>
   <span id="f000024">wiser,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and better people had been proved to be profoundly in error in matters about which they had expressed the utmost assurance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“You said there couldn’t possibly be a frog in my bread-and-milk;</span>
   <span id="f000027">there <em>was</em> a frog in my bread-and-milk,” he repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000028">with the insistence of a skilled tactician who does not intend to shift from favourable ground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">So his boy-cousin and girl-cousin and his quite uninteresting younger brother were to be taken to Jagborough sands that afternoon and he was to stay at home.</span>
   <span id="f000030">His cousins’ aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000031">who insisted,</span>
   <span id="f000032">by an unwarranted stretch of imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000033">in styling herself his aunt also,</span>
   <span id="f000034">had hastily invented the Jagborough expedition in order to impress on Nicholas the delights that he had justly forfeited by his disgraceful conduct at the breakfast-table.</span>
   <span id="f000035">It was her habit,</span>
   <span id="f000036">whenever one of the children fell from grace,</span>
   <span id="f000037">to improvise something of a festival nature from which the offender would be rigorously debarred;</span>
   <span id="f000038">if all the children sinned collectively they were suddenly informed of a circus in a neighbouring town,</span>
   <span id="f000039">a circus of unrivalled merit and uncounted elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000040">to which,</span>
   <span id="f000041">but for their depravity,</span>
   <span id="f000042">they would have been taken that very day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">A few decent tears were looked for on the part of Nicholas when the moment for the departure of the expedition arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000044">As a matter of fact,</span>
   <span id="f000045">however,</span>
   <span id="f000046">all the crying was done by his girl-cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000047">who scraped her knee rather painfully against the step of the carriage as she was scrambling in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“How she did howl,” said Nicholas cheerfully,</span>
   <span id="f000049">as the party drove off without any of the elation of high spirits that should have characterised it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“She’ll soon get over that,” said the <em>soi-disant</em> aunt;</span>
   <span id="f000051">“it will be a glorious afternoon for racing about over those beautiful sands.</span>
   <span id="f000052">How they will enjoy themselves!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“Bobby won’t enjoy himself much,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and he won’t race much either,” said Nicholas with a grim chuckle;</span>
   <span id="f000055">“his boots are hurting him.</span>
   <span id="f000056">They’re too tight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">“Why didn’t he tell me they were hurting?” asked the aunt with some asperity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“He told you twice,</span>
   <span id="f000059">but you weren’t listening.</span>
   <span id="f000060">You often don’t listen when we tell you important things.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">“You are not to go into the gooseberry garden,” said the aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000062">changing the subject.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“Why not?” demanded Nicholas.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“Because you are in disgrace,” said the aunt loftily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">Nicholas did not admit the flawlessness of the reasoning;</span>
   <span id="f000066">he felt perfectly capable of being in disgrace and in a gooseberry garden at the same moment.</span>
   <span id="f000067">His face took on an expression of considerable obstinacy.</span>
   <span id="f000068">It was clear to his aunt that he was determined to get into the gooseberry garden,</span>
   <span id="f000069">“only,” as she remarked to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000070">“because I have told him he is not to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">Now the gooseberry garden had two doors by which it might be entered,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and once a small person like Nicholas could slip in there he could effectually disappear from view amid the masking growth of artichokes,</span>
   <span id="f000073">raspberry canes,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and fruit bushes.</span>
   <span id="f000075">The aunt had many other things to do that afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000076">but she spent an hour or two in trivial gardening operations among flower beds and shrubberies,</span>
   <span id="f000077">whence she could keep a watchful eye on the two doors that led to the forbidden paradise.</span>
   <span id="f000078">She was a woman of few ideas,</span>
   <span id="f000079">with immense powers of concentration.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">Nicholas made one or two sorties into the front garden,</span>
   <span id="f000081">wriggling his way with obvious stealth of purpose towards one or other of the doors,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but never able for a moment to evade the aunt’s watchful eye.</span>
   <span id="f000083">As a matter of fact,</span>
   <span id="f000084">he had no intention of trying to get into the gooseberry garden,</span>
   <span id="f000085">but it was extremely convenient for him that his aunt should believe that he had;</span>
   <span id="f000086">it was a belief that would keep her on self-imposed sentry-duty for the greater part of the afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Having thoroughly confirmed and fortified her suspicions Nicholas slipped back into the house and rapidly put into execution a plan of action that had long germinated in his brain.</span>
   <span id="f000088">By standing on a chair in the library one could reach a shelf on which reposed a fat,</span>
   <span id="f000089">important-looking key.</span>
   <span id="f000090">The key was as important as it looked;</span>
   <span id="f000091">it was the instrument which kept the mysteries of the lumber-room secure from unauthorised intrusion,</span>
   <span id="f000092">which opened a way only for aunts and such-like privileged persons.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Nicholas had not had much experience of the art of fitting keys into keyholes and turning locks,</span>
   <span id="f000094">but for some days past he had practised with the key of the schoolroom door;</span>
   <span id="f000095">he did not believe in trusting too much to luck and accident.</span>
   <span id="f000096">The key turned stiffly in the lock,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but it turned.</span>
   <span id="f000098">The door opened,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and Nicholas was in an unknown land,</span>
   <span id="f000100">compared with which the gooseberry garden was a stale delight,</span>
   <span id="f000101">a mere material pleasure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">Often and often Nicholas had pictured to himself what the lumber-room might be like,</span>
   <span id="f000103">that region that was so carefully sealed from youthful eyes and concerning which no questions were ever answered.</span>
   <span id="f000104">It came up to his expectations.</span>
   <span id="f000105">In the first place it was large and dimly lit,</span>
   <span id="f000106">one high window opening on to the forbidden garden being its only source of illumination.</span>
   <span id="f000107">In the second place it was a storehouse of unimagined treasures.</span>
   <span id="f000108">The aunt-by-assertion was one of those people who think that things spoil by use and consign them to dust and damp by way of preserving them.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Such parts of the house as Nicholas knew best were rather bare and cheerless,</span>
   <span id="f000110">but here there were wonderful things for the eye to feast on.</span>
   <span id="f000111">First and foremost there was a piece of framed tapestry that was evidently meant to be a fire-screen.</span>
   <span id="f000112">To Nicholas it was a living,</span>
   <span id="f000113">breathing story;</span>
   <span id="f000114">he sat down on a roll of Indian hangings,</span>
   <span id="f000115">glowing in wonderful colours beneath a layer of dust,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and took in all the details of the tapestry picture.</span>
   <span id="f000117">A man,</span>
   <span id="f000118">dressed in the hunting costume of some remote period,</span>
   <span id="f000119">had just transfixed a stag with an arrow;</span>
   <span id="f000120">it could not have been a difficult shot because the stag was only one or two paces away from him;</span>
   <span id="f000121">in the thickly-growing vegetation that the picture suggested it would not have been difficult to creep up to a feeding stag,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and the two spotted dogs that were springing forward to join in the chase had evidently been trained to keep to heel till the arrow was discharged.</span>
   <span id="f000123">That part of the picture was simple,</span>
   <span id="f000124">if interesting,</span>
   <span id="f000125">but did the huntsman see,</span>
   <span id="f000126">what Nicholas saw,</span>
   <span id="f000127">that four galloping wolves were coming in his direction through the wood?</span>
   <span id="f000128">There might be more than four of them hidden behind the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and in any case would the man and his dogs be able to cope with the four wolves if they made an attack?</span>
   <span id="f000130">The man had only two arrows left in his quiver,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and he might miss with one or both of them;</span>
   <span id="f000132">all one knew about his skill in shooting was that he could hit a large stag at a ridiculously short range.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Nicholas sat for many golden minutes revolving the possibilities of the scene;</span>
   <span id="f000134">he was inclined to think that there were more than four wolves and that the man and his dogs were in a tight corner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">But there were other objects of delight and interest claiming his instant attention:</span>
   <span id="f000136">there were quaint twisted candlesticks in the shape of snakes,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and a teapot fashioned like a china duck,</span>
   <span id="f000138">out of whose open beak the tea was supposed to come.</span>
   <span id="f000139">How dull and shapeless the nursery teapot seemed in comparison!</span>
   <span id="f000140">And there was a carved sandal-wood box packed tight with aromatic cotton-wool,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and between the layers of cotton-wool were little brass figures,</span>
   <span id="f000142">hump-necked bulls,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and peacocks and goblins,</span>
   <span id="f000144">delightful to see and to handle.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Less promising in appearance was a large square book with plain black covers;</span>
   <span id="f000146">Nicholas peeped into it,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and,</span>
   <span id="f000148">behold,</span>
   <span id="f000149">it was full of coloured pictures of birds.</span>
   <span id="f000150">And such birds!</span>
   <span id="f000151">In the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and in the lanes when he went for a walk,</span>
   <span id="f000153">Nicholas came across a few birds,</span>
   <span id="f000154">of which the largest were an occasional magpie or wood-pigeon;</span>
   <span id="f000155">here were herons and bustards,</span>
   <span id="f000156">kites,</span>
   <span id="f000157">toucans,</span>
   <span id="f000158">tiger-bitterns,</span>
   <span id="f000159">brush turkeys,</span>
   <span id="f000160">ibises,</span>
   <span id="f000161">golden pheasants,</span>
   <span id="f000162">a whole portrait gallery of undreamed-of creatures.</span>
   <span id="f000163">And as he was admiring the colouring of the mandarin duck and assigning a life-history to it,</span>
   <span id="f000164">the voice of his aunt in shrill vociferation of his name came from the gooseberry garden without.</span>
   <span id="f000165">She had grown suspicious at his long disappearance,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and had leapt to the conclusion that he had climbed over the wall behind the sheltering screen of the lilac bushes;</span>
   <span id="f000167">she was now engaged in energetic and rather hopeless search for him among the artichokes and raspberry canes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“Nicholas,</span>
   <span id="f000169">Nicholas!” she screamed,</span>
   <span id="f000170">“you are to come out of this at once.</span>
   <span id="f000171">It’s no use trying to hide there;</span>
   <span id="f000172">I can see you all the time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">It was probably the first time for twenty years that anyone had smiled in that lumber-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">Presently the angry repetitions of Nicholas’ name gave way to a shriek,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and a cry for somebody to come quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Nicholas shut the book,</span>
   <span id="f000177">restored it carefully to its place in a corner,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and shook some dust from a neighbouring pile of newspapers over it.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Then he crept from the room,</span>
   <span id="f000180">locked the door,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and replaced the key exactly where he had found it.</span>
   <span id="f000182">His aunt was still calling his name when he sauntered into the front garden.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">“Who’s calling?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“Me,” came the answer from the other side of the wall;</span>
   <span id="f000185">“didn’t you hear me?</span>
   <span id="f000186">I’ve been looking for you in the gooseberry garden,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and I’ve slipped into the rain-water tank.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Luckily there’s no water in it,</span>
   <span id="f000189">but the sides are slippery and I can’t get out.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Fetch the little ladder from under the cherry tree—”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“I was told I wasn’t to go into the gooseberry garden,” said Nicholas promptly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“I told you not to,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and now I tell you that you may,” came the voice from the rain-water tank,</span>
   <span id="f000194">rather impatiently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Your voice doesn’t sound like aunt’s,” objected Nicholas;</span>
   <span id="f000196">“you may be the Evil One tempting me to be disobedient.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Aunt often tells me that the Evil One tempts me and that I always yield.</span>
   <span id="f000198">This time I’m not going to yield.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“Don’t talk nonsense,” said the prisoner in the tank;</span>
   <span id="f000200">“go and fetch the ladder.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Will there be strawberry jam for tea?” asked Nicholas innocently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Certainly there will be,” said the aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000203">privately resolving that Nicholas should have none of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“Now I know that you are the Evil One and not aunt,” shouted Nicholas gleefully;</span>
   <span id="f000205">“when we asked aunt for strawberry jam yesterday she said there wasn’t any.</span>
   <span id="f000206">I know there are four jars of it in the store cupboard,</span>
   <span id="f000207">because I looked,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and of course you know it’s there,</span>
   <span id="f000209">but she doesn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000210">because she said there wasn’t any.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000212">Devil,</span>
   <span id="f000213">you <em>have</em> sold yourself!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">There was an unusual sense of luxury in being able to talk to an aunt as though one was talking to the Evil One,</span>
   <span id="f000215">but Nicholas knew,</span>
   <span id="f000216">with childish discernment,</span>
   <span id="f000217">that such luxuries were not to be over-indulged in.</span>
   <span id="f000218">He walked noisily away,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and it was a kitchenmaid,</span>
   <span id="f000220">in search of parsley,</span>
   <span id="f000221">who eventually rescued the aunt from the rain-water tank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">Tea that evening was partaken of in a fearsome silence.</span>
   <span id="f000223">The tide had been at its highest when the children had arrived at Jagborough Cove,</span>
   <span id="f000224">so there had been no sands to play on—a circumstance that the aunt had overlooked in the haste of organising her punitive expedition.</span>
   <span id="f000225">The tightness of Bobby’s boots had had disastrous effect on his temper the whole of the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and altogether the children could not have been said to have enjoyed themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000227">The aunt maintained the frozen muteness of one who has suffered undignified and unmerited detention in a rain-water tank for thirty-five minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000228">As for Nicholas,</span>
   <span id="f000229">he,</span>
   <span id="f000230">too,</span>
   <span id="f000231">was silent,</span>
   <span id="f000232">in the absorption of one who has much to think about;</span>
   <span id="f000233">it was just possible,</span>
   <span id="f000234">he considered,</span>
   <span id="f000235">that the huntsman would escape with his hounds while the wolves feasted on the stricken stag.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

