<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure IV<br />The Bascombe Valley Mystery</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">We were seated at breakfast one morning,</span>
   <span id="f000009">my wife and I,</span>
   <span id="f000010">when the maid brought in a telegram.</span>
   <span id="f000011">It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">“Have you a couple of days to spare?</span>
   <span id="f000013">Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Shall be glad if you will come with me.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Air and scenery perfect.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Leave Paddington by the 11:15.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“What do you say,</span>
   <span id="f000018">dear?” said my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000019">looking across at me.</span>
   <span id="f000020">“Will you go?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">“I really don’t know what to say.</span>
   <span id="f000022">I have a fairly long list at present.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000024">Anstruther would do your work for you.</span>
   <span id="f000025">You have been looking a little pale lately.</span>
   <span id="f000026">I think that the change would do you good,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and you are always so interested in Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes’ cases.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">“I should be ungrateful if I were not,</span>
   <span id="f000029">seeing what I gained through one of them,” I answered.</span>
   <span id="f000030">“But if I am to go,</span>
   <span id="f000031">I must pack at once,</span>
   <span id="f000032">for I have only half an hour.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had the effect of making me a prompt and ready traveller.</span>
   <span id="f000034">My wants were few and simple,</span>
   <span id="f000035">so that in less than the time stated I was in a cab with my valise,</span>
   <span id="f000036">rattling away to Paddington Station.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Sherlock Holmes was pacing up and down the platform,</span>
   <span id="f000038">his tall,</span>
   <span id="f000039">gaunt figure made even gaunter and taller by his long grey travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“It is really very good of you to come,</span>
   <span id="f000041">Watson,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000042">“It makes a considerable difference to me,</span>
   <span id="f000043">having someone with me on whom I can thoroughly rely.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Local aid is always either worthless or else biassed.</span>
   <span id="f000045">If you will keep the two corner seats I shall get the tickets.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">We had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of papers which Holmes had brought with him.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Among these he rummaged and read,</span>
   <span id="f000048">with intervals of note-taking and of meditation,</span>
   <span id="f000049">until we were past Reading.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“Have you heard anything of the case?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“Not a word.</span>
   <span id="f000053">I have not seen a paper for some days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“The London press has not had very full accounts.</span>
   <span id="f000055">I have just been looking through all the recent papers in order to master the particulars.</span>
   <span id="f000056">It seems,</span>
   <span id="f000057">from what I gather,</span>
   <span id="f000058">to be one of those simple cases which are so extremely difficult.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“That sounds a little paradoxical.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“But it is profoundly true.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Singularity is almost invariably a clue.</span>
   <span id="f000062">The more featureless and commonplace a crime is,</span>
   <span id="f000063">the more difficult it is to bring it home.</span>
   <span id="f000064">In this case,</span>
   <span id="f000065">however,</span>
   <span id="f000066">they have established a very serious case against the son of the murdered man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“It is a murder,</span>
   <span id="f000068">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000070">it is conjectured to be so.</span>
   <span id="f000071">I shall take nothing for granted until I have the opportunity of looking personally into it.</span>
   <span id="f000072">I will explain the state of things to you,</span>
   <span id="f000073">as far as I have been able to understand it,</span>
   <span id="f000074">in a very few words.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">Boscombe Valley is a country district not very far from Ross,</span>
   <span id="f000076">in Herefordshire.</span>
   <span id="f000077">The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr.&#160;John Turner,</span>
   <span id="f000078">who made his money in Australia and returned some years ago to the old country.</span>
   <span id="f000079">One of the farms which he held,</span>
   <span id="f000080">that of Hatherley,</span>
   <span id="f000081">was let to Mr.&#160;Charles McCarthy,</span>
   <span id="f000082">who was also an ex-Australian.</span>
   <span id="f000083">The men had known each other in the colonies,</span>
   <span id="f000084">so that it was not unnatural that when they came to settle down they should do so as near each other as possible.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Turner was apparently the richer man,</span>
   <span id="f000086">so McCarthy became his tenant but still remained,</span>
   <span id="f000087">it seems,</span>
   <span id="f000088">upon terms of perfect equality,</span>
   <span id="f000089">as they were frequently together.</span>
   <span id="f000090">McCarthy had one son,</span>
   <span id="f000091">a lad of eighteen,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and Turner had an only daughter of the same age,</span>
   <span id="f000093">but neither of them had wives living.</span>
   <span id="f000094">They appear to have avoided the society of the neighbouring English families and to have led retired lives,</span>
   <span id="f000095">though both the McCarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the race-meetings of the neighbourhood.</span>
   <span id="f000096">McCarthy kept two servants – a man and a girl.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Turner had a considerable household,</span>
   <span id="f000098">some half-dozen at the least.</span>
   <span id="f000099">That is as much as I have been able to gather about the families.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Now for the facts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">On June 3rd,</span>
   <span id="f000102">that is,</span>
   <span id="f000103">on Monday last,</span>
   <span id="f000104">McCarthy left his house at Hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the Boscombe Pool,</span>
   <span id="f000105">which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of the stream which runs down the Boscombe Valley.</span>
   <span id="f000106">He had been out with his serving-man in the morning at Ross,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and he had told the man that he must hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000108">as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three.</span>
   <span id="f000109">From that appointment he never came back alive.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">From Hatherley Farm-house to the Boscombe Pool is a quarter of a mile,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and two people saw him as he passed over this ground.</span>
   <span id="f000112">One was an old woman,</span>
   <span id="f000113">whose name is not mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and the other was William Crowder,</span>
   <span id="f000115">a game-keeper in the employ of Mr.&#160;Turner.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Both these witnesses depose that Mr.&#160;McCarthy was walking alone.</span>
   <span id="f000117">The game-keeper adds that within a few minutes of his seeing Mr.&#160;McCarthy pass he had seen his son,</span>
   <span id="f000118">Mr.&#160;James McCarthy,</span>
   <span id="f000119">going the same way with a gun under his arm.</span>
   <span id="f000120">To the best of his belief,</span>
   <span id="f000121">the father was actually in sight at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and the son was following him.</span>
   <span id="f000123">He thought no more of the matter until he heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“The two McCarthys were seen after the time when William Crowder,</span>
   <span id="f000125">the game-keeper,</span>
   <span id="f000126">lost sight of them.</span>
   <span id="f000127">The Boscombe Pool is thickly wooded round,</span>
   <span id="f000128">with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge.</span>
   <span id="f000129">A girl of fourteen,</span>
   <span id="f000130">Patience Moran,</span>
   <span id="f000131">who is the daughter of the lodge-keeper of the Boscombe Valley estate,</span>
   <span id="f000132">was in one of the woods picking flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000133">She states that while she was there she saw,</span>
   <span id="f000134">at the border of the wood and close by the lake,</span>
   <span id="f000135">Mr.&#160;McCarthy and his son,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and that they appeared to be having a violent quarrel.</span>
   <span id="f000137">She heard Mr.&#160;McCarthy the elder using very strong language to his son,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and she saw the latter raise up his hand as if to strike his father.</span>
   <span id="f000139">She was so frightened by their violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near Boscombe Pool,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and that she was afraid that they were going to fight.</span>
   <span id="f000141">She had hardly said the words when young Mr.&#160;McCarthy came running up to the lodge to say that he had found his father dead in the wood,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and to ask for the help of the lodge-keeper.</span>
   <span id="f000143">He was much excited,</span>
   <span id="f000144">without either his gun or his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood.</span>
   <span id="f000146">On following him they found the dead body stretched out upon the grass beside the pool.</span>
   <span id="f000147">The head had been beaten in by repeated blows of some heavy and blunt weapon.</span>
   <span id="f000148">The injuries were such as might very well have been inflicted by the butt-end of his son’s gun,</span>
   <span id="f000149">which was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the body.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Under these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and a verdict of ’wilful murder’ having been returned at the inquest on Tuesday,</span>
   <span id="f000152">he was on Wednesday brought before the magistrates at Ross,</span>
   <span id="f000153">who have referred the case to the next Assizes.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Those are the main facts of the case as they came out before the coroner and the police-court.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“I could hardly imagine a more damning case,” I remarked.</span>
   <span id="f000156">“If ever circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing,” answered Holmes thoughtfully.</span>
   <span id="f000158">“It may seem to point very straight to one thing,</span>
   <span id="f000159">but if you shift your own point of view a little,</span>
   <span id="f000160">you may find it pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different.</span>
   <span id="f000161">It must be confessed,</span>
   <span id="f000162">however,</span>
   <span id="f000163">that the case looks exceedingly grave against the young man,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and it is very possible that he is indeed the culprit.</span>
   <span id="f000165">There are several people in the neighbourhood,</span>
   <span id="f000166">however,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and among them Miss Turner,</span>
   <span id="f000168">the daughter of the neighbouring landowner,</span>
   <span id="f000169">who believe in his innocence,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and who have retained Lestrade,</span>
   <span id="f000171">whom you may recollect in connection with the Study in Scarlet,</span>
   <span id="f000172">to work out the case in his interest.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Lestrade,</span>
   <span id="f000174">being rather puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000175">has referred the case to me,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are flying westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their breakfasts at home.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“I am afraid,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000178">“that the facts are so obvious that you will find little credit to be gained out of this case.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000180">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000181">“Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000182">we may chance to hit upon some other obvious facts which may have been by no means obvious to Mr.&#160;Lestrade.</span>
   <span id="f000183">You know me too well to think that I am boasting when I say that I shall either confirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapable of employing,</span>
   <span id="f000184">or even of understanding.</span>
   <span id="f000185">To take the first example to hand,</span>
   <span id="f000186">I very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the right-hand side,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and yet I question whether Mr.&#160;Lestrade would have noted even so self-evident a thing as that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“How on earth – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“My dear fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000190">I know you well.</span>
   <span id="f000191">I know the military neatness which characterises you.</span>
   <span id="f000192">You shave every morning,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and in this season you shave by the sunlight;</span>
   <span id="f000194">but since your shaving is less and less complete as we get farther back on the left side,</span>
   <span id="f000195">until it becomes positively slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw,</span>
   <span id="f000196">it is surely very clear that that side is less illuminated than the other.</span>
   <span id="f000197">I could not imagine a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal light and being satisfied with such a result.</span>
   <span id="f000198">I only quote this as a trivial example of observation and inference.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Therein lies my métier,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and it is just possible that it may be of some service in the investigation which lies before us.</span>
   <span id="f000201">There are one or two minor points which were brought out in the inquest,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and which are worth considering.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">“What are they?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“It appears that his arrest did not take place at once,</span>
   <span id="f000205">but after the return to Hatherley Farm.</span>
   <span id="f000206">On the inspector of constabulary informing him that he was a prisoner,</span>
   <span id="f000207">he remarked that he was not surprised to hear it,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and that it was no more than his deserts.</span>
   <span id="f000209">This observation of his had the natural effect of removing any traces of doubt which might have remained in the minds of the coroner’s jury.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“It was a confession,” I ejaculated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000212">for it was followed by a protestation of innocence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“Coming on the top of such a damning series of events,</span>
   <span id="f000214">it was at least a most suspicious remark.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“On the contrary,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000216">“it is the brightest rift which I can at present see in the clouds.</span>
   <span id="f000217">However innocent he might be,</span>
   <span id="f000218">he could not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances were very black against him.</span>
   <span id="f000219">Had he appeared surprised at his own arrest,</span>
   <span id="f000220">or feigned indignation at it,</span>
   <span id="f000221">I should have looked upon it as highly suspicious,</span>
   <span id="f000222">because such surprise or anger would not be natural under the circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and yet might appear to be the best policy to a scheming man.</span>
   <span id="f000224">His frank acceptance of the situation marks him as either an innocent man,</span>
   <span id="f000225">or else as a man of considerable self-restraint and firmness.</span>
   <span id="f000226">As to his remark about his deserts,</span>
   <span id="f000227">it was also not unnatural if you consider that he stood beside the dead body of his father,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and that there is no doubt that he had that very day so far forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and even,</span>
   <span id="f000230">according to the little girl whose evidence is so important,</span>
   <span id="f000231">to raise his hand as if to strike him.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The self-reproach and contrition which are displayed in his remark appear to me to be the signs of a healthy mind rather than of a guilty one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">I shook my head.</span>
   <span id="f000234">“Many men have been hanged on far slighter evidence,” I remarked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“So they have.</span>
   <span id="f000236">And many men have been wrongfully hanged.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“What is the young man’s own account of the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“It is,</span>
   <span id="f000239">I am afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000240">not very encouraging to his supporters,</span>
   <span id="f000241">though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive.</span>
   <span id="f000242">You will find it here,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and may read it for yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">He picked out from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshire paper,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had occurred.</span>
   <span id="f000246">I settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read it very carefully.</span>
   <span id="f000247">It ran in this way:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“Mr.&#160;James McCarthy,</span>
   <span id="f000249">the only son of the deceased,</span>
   <span id="f000250">was then called and gave evidence as follows:</span>
   <span id="f000251">’I had been away from home for three days at Bristol,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and had only just returned upon the morning of last Monday,</span>
   <span id="f000253">the 3rd.</span>
   <span id="f000254">My father was absent from home at the time of my arrival,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and I was informed by the maid that he had driven over to Ross with John Cobb,</span>
   <span id="f000256">the groom.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Shortly after my return I heard the wheels of his trap in the yard,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and,</span>
   <span id="f000259">looking out of my window,</span>
   <span id="f000260">I saw him get out and walk rapidly out of the yard,</span>
   <span id="f000261">though I was not aware in which direction he was going.</span>
   <span id="f000262">I then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the Boscombe Pool,</span>
   <span id="f000263">with the intention of visiting the rabbit warren which is upon the other side.</span>
   <span id="f000264">On my way I saw William Crowder,</span>
   <span id="f000265">the game-keeper,</span>
   <span id="f000266">as he had stated in his evidence;</span>
   <span id="f000267">but he is mistaken in thinking that I was following my father.</span>
   <span id="f000268">I had no idea that he was in front of me.</span>
   <span id="f000269">When about a hundred yards from the pool I heard a cry of ”Cooee!" which was a usual signal between my father and myself.</span>
   <span id="f000270">I then hurried forward,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and found him standing by the pool.</span>
   <span id="f000272">He appeared to be much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was doing there.</span>
   <span id="f000273">A conversation ensued which led to high words and almost to blows,</span>
   <span id="f000274">for my father was a man of a very violent temper.</span>
   <span id="f000275">Seeing that his passion was becoming ungovernable,</span>
   <span id="f000276">I left him and returned towards Hatherley Farm.</span>
   <span id="f000277">I had not gone more than 150 yards,</span>
   <span id="f000278">however,</span>
   <span id="f000279">when I heard a hideous outcry behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000280">which caused me to run back again.</span>
   <span id="f000281">I found my father expiring upon the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000282">with his head terribly injured.</span>
   <span id="f000283">I dropped my gun and held him in my arms,</span>
   <span id="f000284">but he almost instantly expired.</span>
   <span id="f000285">I knelt beside him for some minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and then made my way to Mr.&#160;Turner’s lodge-keeper,</span>
   <span id="f000287">his house being the nearest,</span>
   <span id="f000288">to ask for assistance.</span>
   <span id="f000289">I saw no one near my father when I returned,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and I have no idea how he came by his injuries.</span>
   <span id="f000291">He was not a popular man,</span>
   <span id="f000292">being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners,</span>
   <span id="f000293">but he had,</span>
   <span id="f000294">as far as I know,</span>
   <span id="f000295">no active enemies.</span>
   <span id="f000296">I know nothing further of the matter.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">The Coroner:</span>
   <span id="f000298">Did your father make any statement to you before he died?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">Witness:</span>
   <span id="f000300">He mumbled a few words,</span>
   <span id="f000301">but I could only catch some allusion to a rat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">The Coroner:</span>
   <span id="f000303">What did you understand by that?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">Witness:</span>
   <span id="f000305">It conveyed no meaning to me.</span>
   <span id="f000306">I thought that he was delirious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">The Coroner:</span>
   <span id="f000308">What was the point upon which you and your father had this final quarrel?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">Witness:</span>
   <span id="f000310">I should prefer not to answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">The Coroner:</span>
   <span id="f000312">I am afraid that I must press it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">Witness:</span>
   <span id="f000314">It is really impossible for me to tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000315">I can assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">The Coroner:</span>
   <span id="f000317">That is for the court to decide.</span>
   <span id="f000318">I need not point out to you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your case considerably in any future proceedings which may arise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">Witness:</span>
   <span id="f000320">I must still refuse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">The Coroner:</span>
   <span id="f000322">I understand that the cry of ’Cooee’ was a common signal between you and your father?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">Witness:</span>
   <span id="f000324">It was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">The Coroner:</span>
   <span id="f000326">How was it,</span>
   <span id="f000327">then,</span>
   <span id="f000328">that he uttered it before he saw you,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">Witness</span>
   <span id="f000331">(with considerable confusion):</span>
   <span id="f000332">I do not know.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">A Juryman:</span>
   <span id="f000334">Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">Witness:</span>
   <span id="f000336">Nothing definite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">The Coroner:</span>
   <span id="f000338">What do you mean?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">Witness:</span>
   <span id="f000340">I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the open,</span>
   <span id="f000341">that I could think of nothing except of my father.</span>
   <span id="f000342">Yet I have a vague impression that as I ran forward something lay upon the ground to the left of me.</span>
   <span id="f000343">It seemed to me to be something grey in colour,</span>
   <span id="f000344">a coat of some sort,</span>
   <span id="f000345">or a plaid perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000346">When I rose from my father I looked round for it,</span>
   <span id="f000347">but it was gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">’Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000350">it was gone.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">’You cannot say what it was?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000353">I had a feeling something was there.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">’How far from the body?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">’A dozen yards or so.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">’And how far from the edge of the wood?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">’About the same.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">’Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of it?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000360">but with my back towards it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000361">“This concluded the examination of the witness.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">“I see,” said I as I glanced down the column,</span>
   <span id="f000363">“that the coroner in his concluding remarks was rather severe upon young McCarthy.</span>
   <span id="f000364">He calls attention,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and with reason,</span>
   <span id="f000366">to the discrepancy about his father having signalled to him before seeing him,</span>
   <span id="f000367">also to his refusal to give details of his conversation with his father,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and his singular account of his father’s dying words.</span>
   <span id="f000369">They are all,</span>
   <span id="f000370">as he remarks,</span>
   <span id="f000371">very much against the son.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the cushioned seat.</span>
   <span id="f000373">“Both you and the coroner have been at some pains,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000374">“to single out the very strongest points in the young man’s favour.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Don’t you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little?</span>
   <span id="f000376">Too little,</span>
   <span id="f000377">if he could not invent a cause of quarrel which would give him the sympathy of the jury;</span>
   <span id="f000378">too much,</span>
   <span id="f000379">if he evolved from his own inner consciousness anything so outré as a dying reference to a rat,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and the incident of the vanishing cloth.</span>
   <span id="f000381">No,</span>
   <span id="f000382">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000383">I shall approach this case from the point of view that what this young man says is true,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and we shall see whither that hypothesis will lead us.</span>
   <span id="f000385">And now here is my pocket Petrarch,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and not another word shall I say of this case until we are on the scene of action.</span>
   <span id="f000387">We lunch at Swindon,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and I see that we shall be there in twenty minutes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">It was nearly four o’clock when we at last,</span>
   <span id="f000390">after passing through the beautiful Stroud Valley,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and over the broad gleaming Severn,</span>
   <span id="f000392">found ourselves at the pretty little country-town of Ross.</span>
   <span id="f000393">A lean,</span>
   <span id="f000394">ferret-like man,</span>
   <span id="f000395">furtive and sly-looking,</span>
   <span id="f000396">was waiting for us upon the platform.</span>
   <span id="f000397">In spite of the light brown dustcoat and leather-leggings which he wore in deference to his rustic surroundings,</span>
   <span id="f000398">I had no difficulty in recognising Lestrade,</span>
   <span id="f000399">of Scotland Yard.</span>
   <span id="f000400">With him we drove to the Hereford Arms where a room had already been engaged for us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“I have ordered a carriage,” said Lestrade as we sat over a cup of tea.</span>
   <span id="f000402">“I knew your energetic nature,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and that you would not be happy until you had been on the scene of the crime.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“It was very nice and complimentary of you,” Holmes answered.</span>
   <span id="f000405">“It is entirely a question of barometric pressure.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">Lestrade looked startled.</span>
   <span id="f000407">“I do not quite follow,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“How is the glass?</span>
   <span id="f000409">Twenty-nine,</span>
   <span id="f000410">I see.</span>
   <span id="f000411">No wind,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and not a cloud in the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000413">I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination.</span>
   <span id="f000415">I do not think that it is probable that I shall use the carriage to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">Lestrade laughed indulgently.</span>
   <span id="f000417">“You have,</span>
   <span id="f000418">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000419">already formed your conclusions from the newspapers,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000420">“The case is as plain as a pikestaff,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes.</span>
   <span id="f000422">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000423">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000424">one can’t refuse a lady,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and such a very positive one,</span>
   <span id="f000426">too.</span>
   <span id="f000427">She has heard of you,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and would have your opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000429">though I repeatedly told her that there was nothing which you could do which I had not already done.</span>
   <span id="f000430">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000431">bless my soul!</span>
   <span id="f000432">here is her carriage at the door.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the most lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Her violet eyes shining,</span>
   <span id="f000435">her lips parted,</span>
   <span id="f000436">a pink flush upon her cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000437">all thought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000439">Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes!” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000440">glancing from one to the other of us,</span>
   <span id="f000441">and finally,</span>
   <span id="f000442">with a woman’s quick intuition,</span>
   <span id="f000443">fastening upon my companion,</span>
   <span id="f000444">“I am so glad that you have come.</span>
   <span id="f000445">I have driven down to tell you so.</span>
   <span id="f000446">I know that James didn’t do it.</span>
   <span id="f000447">I know it,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and I want you to start upon your work knowing it,</span>
   <span id="f000449">too.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Never let yourself doubt upon that point.</span>
   <span id="f000451">We have known each other since we were little children,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and I know his faults as no one else does;</span>
   <span id="f000453">but he is too tender-hearted to hurt a fly.</span>
   <span id="f000454">Such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">“I hope we may clear him,</span>
   <span id="f000456">Miss Turner,” said Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000457">“You may rely upon my doing all that I can.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">“But you have read the evidence.</span>
   <span id="f000459">You have formed some conclusion?</span>
   <span id="f000460">Do you not see some loophole,</span>
   <span id="f000461">some flaw?</span>
   <span id="f000462">Do you not yourself think that he is innocent?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">“I think that it is very probable.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">“There,</span>
   <span id="f000465">now!” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000466">throwing back her head and looking defiantly at Lestrade.</span>
   <span id="f000467">“You hear!</span>
   <span id="f000468">He gives me hopes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">Lestrade shrugged his shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000470">“I am afraid that my colleague has been a little quick in forming his conclusions,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">“But he is right.</span>
   <span id="f000472">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000473">I know that he is right.</span>
   <span id="f000474">James never did it.</span>
   <span id="f000475">And about his quarrel with his father,</span>
   <span id="f000476">I am sure that the reason why he would not speak about it to the coroner was because I was concerned in it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">“In what way?” asked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">“It is no time for me to hide anything.</span>
   <span id="f000479">James and his father had many disagreements about me.</span>
   <span id="f000480">Mr.&#160;McCarthy was very anxious that there should be a marriage between us.</span>
   <span id="f000481">James and I have always loved each other as brother and sister;</span>
   <span id="f000482">but of course he is young and has seen very little of life yet,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and – and – well,</span>
   <span id="f000484">he naturally did not wish to do anything like that yet.</span>
   <span id="f000485">So there were quarrels,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and this,</span>
   <span id="f000487">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f000488">was one of them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">“And your father?” asked Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000490">“Was he in favour of such a union?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000492">he was averse to it also.</span>
   <span id="f000493">No one but Mr.&#160;McCarthy was in favour of it.” A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as Holmes shot one of his keen,</span>
   <span id="f000494">questioning glances at her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“Thank you for this information,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000496">“May I see your father if I call to-morrow?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">“I am afraid the doctor won’t allow it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000498">“The doctor?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000500">have you not heard?</span>
   <span id="f000501">Poor father has never been strong for years back,</span>
   <span id="f000502">but this has broken him down completely.</span>
   <span id="f000503">He has taken to his bed,</span>
   <span id="f000504">and Dr.&#160;Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is shattered.</span>
   <span id="f000505">Mr.&#160;McCarthy was the only man alive who had known dad in the old days in Victoria.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000507">In Victoria!</span>
   <span id="f000508">That is important.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000510">at the mines.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“Quite so;</span>
   <span id="f000512">at the gold-mines,</span>
   <span id="f000513">where,</span>
   <span id="f000514">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000515">Mr.&#160;Turner made his money.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000517">certainly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">“Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000519">Miss Turner.</span>
   <span id="f000520">You have been of material assistance to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">“You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000522">No doubt you will go to the prison to see James.</span>
   <span id="f000523">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000524">if you do,</span>
   <span id="f000525">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000526">do tell him that I know him to be innocent.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">“I will,</span>
   <span id="f000528">Miss Turner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">“I must go home now,</span>
   <span id="f000530">for dad is very ill,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and he misses me so if I leave him.</span>
   <span id="f000532">Good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and God help you in your undertaking.” She hurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and we heard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“I am ashamed of you,</span>
   <span id="f000536">Holmes,” said Lestrade with dignity after a few minutes’ silence.</span>
   <span id="f000537">“Why should you raise up hopes which you are bound to disappoint?</span>
   <span id="f000538">I am not over-tender of heart,</span>
   <span id="f000539">but I call it cruel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000541">“Have you an order to see him in prison?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000543">but only for you and me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">“Then I shall reconsider my resolution about going out.</span>
   <span id="f000545">We have still time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“Ample.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">“Then let us do so.</span>
   <span id="f000548">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000549">I fear that you will find it very slow,</span>
   <span id="f000550">but I shall only be away a couple of hours.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">I walked down to the station with them,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and then wandered through the streets of the little town,</span>
   <span id="f000553">finally returning to the hotel,</span>
   <span id="f000554">where I lay upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel.</span>
   <span id="f000555">The puny plot of the story was so thin,</span>
   <span id="f000556">however,</span>
   <span id="f000557">when compared to the deep mystery through which we were groping,</span>
   <span id="f000558">and I found my attention wander so continually from the action to the fact,</span>
   <span id="f000559">that I at last flung it across the room and gave myself up entirely to a consideration of the events of the day.</span>
   <span id="f000560">Supposing that this unhappy young man’s story were absolutely true,</span>
   <span id="f000561">then what hellish thing,</span>
   <span id="f000562">what absolutely unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when he parted from his father,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and the moment when,</span>
   <span id="f000564">drawn back by his screams,</span>
   <span id="f000565">he rushed into the glade?</span>
   <span id="f000566">It was something terrible and deadly.</span>
   <span id="f000567">What could it be?</span>
   <span id="f000568">Might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts?</span>
   <span id="f000569">I rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper,</span>
   <span id="f000570">which contained a verbatim account of the inquest.</span>
   <span id="f000571">In the surgeon’s deposition it was stated that the posterior third of the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon.</span>
   <span id="f000572">I marked the spot upon my own head.</span>
   <span id="f000573">Clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind.</span>
   <span id="f000574">That was to some extent in favour of the accused,</span>
   <span id="f000575">as when seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father.</span>
   <span id="f000576">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000577">it did not go for very much,</span>
   <span id="f000578">for the older man might have turned his back before the blow fell.</span>
   <span id="f000579">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000580">it might be worth while to call Holmes’ attention to it.</span>
   <span id="f000581">Then there was the peculiar dying reference to a rat.</span>
   <span id="f000582">What could that mean?</span>
   <span id="f000583">It could not be delirium.</span>
   <span id="f000584">A man dying from a sudden blow does not commonly become delirious.</span>
   <span id="f000585">No,</span>
   <span id="f000586">it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how he met his fate.</span>
   <span id="f000587">But what could it indicate?</span>
   <span id="f000588">I cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation.</span>
   <span id="f000589">And then the incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy.</span>
   <span id="f000590">If that were true the murderer must have dropped some part of his dress,</span>
   <span id="f000591">presumably his overcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000592">in his flight,</span>
   <span id="f000593">and must have had the hardihood to return and to carry it away at the instant when the son was kneeling with his back turned not a dozen paces off.</span>
   <span id="f000594">What a tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was!</span>
   <span id="f000595">I did not wonder at Lestrade’s opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and yet I had so much faith in Sherlock Holmes’ insight that I could not lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen his conviction of young McCarthy’s innocence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned.</span>
   <span id="f000598">He came back alone,</span>
   <span id="f000599">for Lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">“The glass still keeps very high,” he remarked as he sat down.</span>
   <span id="f000601">“It is of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go over the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000602">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000603">a man should be at his very best and keenest for such nice work as that,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and I did not wish to do it when fagged by a long journey.</span>
   <span id="f000605">I have seen young McCarthy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">“And what did you learn from him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000607">“Nothing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000608">“Could he throw no light?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">“None at all.</span>
   <span id="f000610">I was inclined to think at one time that he knew who had done it and was screening him or her,</span>
   <span id="f000611">but I am convinced now that he is as puzzled as everyone else.</span>
   <span id="f000612">He is not a very quick-witted youth,</span>
   <span id="f000613">though comely to look at and,</span>
   <span id="f000614">I should think,</span>
   <span id="f000615">sound at heart.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">“I cannot admire his taste,” I remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000617">“if it is indeed a fact that he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as this Miss Turner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000619">thereby hangs a rather painful tale.</span>
   <span id="f000620">This fellow is madly,</span>
   <span id="f000621">insanely,</span>
   <span id="f000622">in love with her,</span>
   <span id="f000623">but some two years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000624">when he was only a lad,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and before he really knew her,</span>
   <span id="f000626">for she had been away five years at a boarding-school,</span>
   <span id="f000627">what does the idiot do but get into the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office?</span>
   <span id="f000628">No one knows a word of the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000629">but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do,</span>
   <span id="f000630">but what he knows to be absolutely impossible.</span>
   <span id="f000631">It was sheer frenzy of this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his father,</span>
   <span id="f000632">at their last interview,</span>
   <span id="f000633">was goading him on to propose to Miss Turner.</span>
   <span id="f000634">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000635">he had no means of supporting himself,</span>
   <span id="f000636">and his father,</span>
   <span id="f000637">who was by all accounts a very hard man,</span>
   <span id="f000638">would have thrown him over utterly had he known the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000639">It was with his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three days in Bristol,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and his father did not know where he was.</span>
   <span id="f000641">Mark that point.</span>
   <span id="f000642">It is of importance.</span>
   <span id="f000643">Good has come out of evil,</span>
   <span id="f000644">however,</span>
   <span id="f000645">for the barmaid,</span>
   <span id="f000646">finding from the papers that he is in serious trouble and likely to be hanged,</span>
   <span id="f000647">has thrown him over utterly and has written to him to say that she has a husband already in the Bermuda Dockyard,</span>
   <span id="f000648">so that there is really no tie between them.</span>
   <span id="f000649">I think that that bit of news has consoled young McCarthy for all that he has suffered.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">“But if he is innocent,</span>
   <span id="f000651">who has done it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000653">who?</span>
   <span id="f000654">I would call your attention very particularly to two points.</span>
   <span id="f000655">One is that the murdered man had an appointment with someone at the pool,</span>
   <span id="f000656">and that the someone could not have been his son,</span>
   <span id="f000657">for his son was away,</span>
   <span id="f000658">and he did not know when he would return.</span>
   <span id="f000659">The second is that the murdered man was heard to cry ’Cooee!’ before he knew that his son had returned.</span>
   <span id="f000660">Those are the crucial points upon which the case depends.</span>
   <span id="f000661">And now let us talk about George Meredith,</span>
   <span id="f000662">if you please,</span>
   <span id="f000663">and we shall leave all minor matters until to-morrow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">There was no rain,</span>
   <span id="f000665">as Holmes had foretold,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and the morning broke bright and cloudless.</span>
   <span id="f000667">At nine o’clock Lestrade called for us with the carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000668">and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">“There is serious news this morning,” Lestrade observed.</span>
   <span id="f000670">“It is said that Mr.&#160;Turner,</span>
   <span id="f000671">of the Hall,</span>
   <span id="f000672">is so ill that his life is despaired of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“An elderly man,</span>
   <span id="f000674">I presume?” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">“About sixty;</span>
   <span id="f000676">but his constitution has been shattered by his life abroad,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and he has been in failing health for some time.</span>
   <span id="f000678">This business has had a very bad effect upon him.</span>
   <span id="f000679">He was an old friend of McCarthy’s,</span>
   <span id="f000680">and,</span>
   <span id="f000681">I may add,</span>
   <span id="f000682">a great benefactor to him,</span>
   <span id="f000683">for I have learned that he gave him Hatherley Farm rent free.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000684">“Indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000685">That is interesting,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000687">yes!</span>
   <span id="f000688">In a hundred other ways he has helped him.</span>
   <span id="f000689">Everybody about here speaks of his kindness to him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">“Really!</span>
   <span id="f000691">Does it not strike you as a little singular that this McCarthy,</span>
   <span id="f000692">who appears to have had little of his own,</span>
   <span id="f000693">and to have been under such obligations to Turner,</span>
   <span id="f000694">should still talk of marrying his son to Turner’s daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000695">who is,</span>
   <span id="f000696">presumably,</span>
   <span id="f000697">heiress to the estate,</span>
   <span id="f000698">and that in such a very cocksure manner,</span>
   <span id="f000699">as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would follow?</span>
   <span id="f000700">It is the more strange,</span>
   <span id="f000701">since we know that Turner himself was averse to the idea.</span>
   <span id="f000702">The daughter told us as much.</span>
   <span id="f000703">Do you not deduce something from that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000704">“We have got to the deductions and the inferences,” said Lestrade,</span>
   <span id="f000705">winking at me.</span>
   <span id="f000706">“I find it hard enough to tackle facts,</span>
   <span id="f000707">Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000708">without flying away after theories and fancies.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000709">“You are right,” said Holmes demurely;</span>
   <span id="f000710">“you do find it very hard to tackle the facts.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“Anyhow,</span>
   <span id="f000712">I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it difficult to get hold of,” replied Lestrade with some warmth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“And that is – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000714">“That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000716">moonshine is a brighter thing than fog,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000717">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000718">“But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley Farm upon the left.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000719">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000720">that is it.” It was a widespread,</span>
   <span id="f000721">comfortable-looking building,</span>
   <span id="f000722">two-storied,</span>
   <span id="f000723">slate-roofed,</span>
   <span id="f000724">with great yellow blotches of lichen upon the grey walls.</span>
   <span id="f000725">The drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys,</span>
   <span id="f000726">however,</span>
   <span id="f000727">gave it a stricken look,</span>
   <span id="f000728">as though the weight of this horror still lay heavy upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000729">We called at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000730">when the maid,</span>
   <span id="f000731">at Holmes’ request,</span>
   <span id="f000732">showed us the boots which her master wore at the time of his death,</span>
   <span id="f000733">and also a pair of the son’s,</span>
   <span id="f000734">though not the pair which he had then had.</span>
   <span id="f000735">Having measured these very carefully from seven or eight different points,</span>
   <span id="f000736">Holmes desired to be led to the court-yard,</span>
   <span id="f000737">from which we all followed the winding track which led to Boscombe Pool.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000738">Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as this.</span>
   <span id="f000739">Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of Baker Street would have failed to recognise him.</span>
   <span id="f000740">His face flushed and darkened.</span>
   <span id="f000741">His brows were drawn into two hard black lines,</span>
   <span id="f000742">while his eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter.</span>
   <span id="f000743">His face was bent downward,</span>
   <span id="f000744">his shoulders bowed,</span>
   <span id="f000745">his lips compressed,</span>
   <span id="f000746">and the veins stood out like whipcord in his long,</span>
   <span id="f000747">sinewy neck.</span>
   <span id="f000748">His nostrils seemed to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase,</span>
   <span id="f000749">and his mind was so absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that a question or remark fell unheeded upon his ears,</span>
   <span id="f000750">or,</span>
   <span id="f000751">at the most,</span>
   <span id="f000752">only provoked a quick,</span>
   <span id="f000753">impatient snarl in reply.</span>
   <span id="f000754">Swiftly and silently he made his way along the track which ran through the meadows,</span>
   <span id="f000755">and so by way of the woods to the Boscombe Pool.</span>
   <span id="f000756">It was damp,</span>
   <span id="f000757">marshy ground,</span>
   <span id="f000758">as is all that district,</span>
   <span id="f000759">and there were marks of many feet,</span>
   <span id="f000760">both upon the path and amid the short grass which bounded it on either side.</span>
   <span id="f000761">Sometimes Holmes would hurry on,</span>
   <span id="f000762">sometimes stop dead,</span>
   <span id="f000763">and once he made quite a little detour into the meadow.</span>
   <span id="f000764">Lestrade and I walked behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000765">the detective indifferent and contemptuous,</span>
   <span id="f000766">while I watched my friend with the interest which sprang from the conviction that every one of his actions was directed towards a definite end.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">The Boscombe Pool,</span>
   <span id="f000768">which is a little reed-girt sheet of water some fifty yards across,</span>
   <span id="f000769">is situated at the boundary between the Hatherley Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr.&#160;Turner.</span>
   <span id="f000770">Above the woods which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red,</span>
   <span id="f000771">jutting pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner’s dwelling.</span>
   <span id="f000772">On the Hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick,</span>
   <span id="f000773">and there was a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces across between the edge of the trees and the reeds which lined the lake.</span>
   <span id="f000774">Lestrade showed us the exact spot at which the body had been found,</span>
   <span id="f000775">and,</span>
   <span id="f000776">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000777">so moist was the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000778">that I could plainly see the traces which had been left by the fall of the stricken man.</span>
   <span id="f000779">To Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000780">as I could see by his eager face and peering eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000781">very many other things were to be read upon the trampled grass.</span>
   <span id="f000782">He ran round,</span>
   <span id="f000783">like a dog who is picking up a scent,</span>
   <span id="f000784">and then turned upon my companion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">“What did you go into the pool for?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000786">“I fished about with a rake.</span>
   <span id="f000787">I thought there might be some weapon or other trace.</span>
   <span id="f000788">But how on earth – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000789">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000790">tut,</span>
   <span id="f000791">tut!</span>
   <span id="f000792">I have no time!</span>
   <span id="f000793">That left foot of yours with its inward twist is all over the place.</span>
   <span id="f000794">A mole could trace it,</span>
   <span id="f000795">and there it vanishes among the reeds.</span>
   <span id="f000796">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000797">how simple it would all have been had I been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over it.</span>
   <span id="f000798">Here is where the party with the lodge-keeper came,</span>
   <span id="f000799">and they have covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body.</span>
   <span id="f000800">But here are three separate tracks of the same feet.” He drew out a lens and lay down upon his waterproof to have a better view,</span>
   <span id="f000801">talking all the time rather to himself than to us.</span>
   <span id="f000802">“These are young McCarthy’s feet.</span>
   <span id="f000803">Twice he was walking,</span>
   <span id="f000804">and once he ran swiftly,</span>
   <span id="f000805">so that the soles are deeply marked and the heels hardly visible.</span>
   <span id="f000806">That bears out his story.</span>
   <span id="f000807">He ran when he saw his father on the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000808">Then here are the father’s feet as he paced up and down.</span>
   <span id="f000809">What is this,</span>
   <span id="f000810">then?</span>
   <span id="f000811">It is the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening.</span>
   <span id="f000812">And this?</span>
   <span id="f000813">Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000814">ha!</span>
   <span id="f000815">What have we here?</span>
   <span id="f000816">Tiptoes!</span>
   <span id="f000817">tiptoes!</span>
   <span id="f000818">Square,</span>
   <span id="f000819">too,</span>
   <span id="f000820">quite unusual boots!</span>
   <span id="f000821">They come,</span>
   <span id="f000822">they go,</span>
   <span id="f000823">they come again – of course that was for the cloak.</span>
   <span id="f000824">Now where did they come from?” He ran up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000825">sometimes losing,</span>
   <span id="f000826">sometimes finding the track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech,</span>
   <span id="f000827">the largest tree in the neighbourhood.</span>
   <span id="f000828">Holmes traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon his face with a little cry of satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000829">For a long time he remained there,</span>
   <span id="f000830">turning over the leaves and dried sticks,</span>
   <span id="f000831">gathering up what seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and examining with his lens not only the ground but even the bark of the tree as far as he could reach.</span>
   <span id="f000832">A jagged stone was lying among the moss,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and this also he carefully examined and retained.</span>
   <span id="f000834">Then he followed a pathway through the wood until he came to the highroad,</span>
   <span id="f000835">where all traces were lost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">“It has been a case of considerable interest,” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000837">returning to his natural manner.</span>
   <span id="f000838">“I fancy that this grey house on the right must be the lodge.</span>
   <span id="f000839">I think that I will go in and have a word with Moran,</span>
   <span id="f000840">and perhaps write a little note.</span>
   <span id="f000841">Having done that,</span>
   <span id="f000842">we may drive back to our luncheon.</span>
   <span id="f000843">You may walk to the cab,</span>
   <span id="f000844">and I shall be with you presently.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000845">It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into Ross,</span>
   <span id="f000846">Holmes still carrying with him the stone which he had picked up in the wood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000847">“This may interest you,</span>
   <span id="f000848">Lestrade,” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000849">holding it out.</span>
   <span id="f000850">“The murder was done with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000851">“I see no marks.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">“There are none.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000853">“How do you know,</span>
   <span id="f000854">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">“The grass was growing under it.</span>
   <span id="f000856">It had only lain there a few days.</span>
   <span id="f000857">There was no sign of a place whence it had been taken.</span>
   <span id="f000858">It corresponds with the injuries.</span>
   <span id="f000859">There is no sign of any other weapon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000860">“And the murderer?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000861">“Is a tall man,</span>
   <span id="f000862">left-handed,</span>
   <span id="f000863">limps with the right leg,</span>
   <span id="f000864">wears thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak,</span>
   <span id="f000865">smokes Indian cigars,</span>
   <span id="f000866">uses a cigar-holder,</span>
   <span id="f000867">and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000868">There are several other indications,</span>
   <span id="f000869">but these may be enough to aid us in our search.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000870">Lestrade laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000871">“I am afraid that I am still a sceptic,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000872">“Theories are all very well,</span>
   <span id="f000873">but we have to deal with a hard-headed British jury.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000874">“Nous verrons,” answered Holmes calmly.</span>
   <span id="f000875">“You work your own method,</span>
   <span id="f000876">and I shall work mine.</span>
   <span id="f000877">I shall be busy this afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000878">and shall probably return to London by the evening train.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000879">“And leave your case unfinished?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000880">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000881">finished.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">“But the mystery?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000883">“It is solved.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000884">“Who was the criminal,</span>
   <span id="f000885">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">“The gentleman I describe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000887">“But who is he?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">“Surely it would not be difficult to find out.</span>
   <span id="f000889">This is not such a populous neighbourhood.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">Lestrade shrugged his shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000891">“I am a practical man,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000892">“and I really cannot undertake to go about the country looking for a left-handed gentleman with a game leg.</span>
   <span id="f000893">I should become the laughing-stock of Scotland Yard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000894">“All right,” said Holmes quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000895">“I have given you the chance.</span>
   <span id="f000896">Here are your lodgings.</span>
   <span id="f000897">Good-bye.</span>
   <span id="f000898">I shall drop you a line before I leave.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000899">Having left Lestrade at his rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000900">we drove to our hotel,</span>
   <span id="f000901">where we found lunch upon the table.</span>
   <span id="f000902">Holmes was silent and buried in thought with a pained expression upon his face,</span>
   <span id="f000903">as one who finds himself in a perplexing position.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000904">“Look here,</span>
   <span id="f000905">Watson,” he said when the cloth was cleared “just sit down in this chair and let me preach to you for a little.</span>
   <span id="f000906">I don’t know quite what to do,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and I should value your advice.</span>
   <span id="f000908">Light a cigar and let me expound.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000909">“Pray do so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000910">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000911">now,</span>
   <span id="f000912">in considering this case there are two points about young McCarthy’s narrative which struck us both instantly,</span>
   <span id="f000913">although they impressed me in his favour and you against him.</span>
   <span id="f000914">One was the fact that his father should,</span>
   <span id="f000915">according to his account,</span>
   <span id="f000916">cry ’Cooee!’ before seeing him.</span>
   <span id="f000917">The other was his singular dying reference to a rat.</span>
   <span id="f000918">He mumbled several words,</span>
   <span id="f000919">you understand,</span>
   <span id="f000920">but that was all that caught the son’s ear.</span>
   <span id="f000921">Now from this double point our research must commence,</span>
   <span id="f000922">and we will begin it by presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000923">“What of this ’Cooee!’ then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000924">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000925">obviously it could not have been meant for the son.</span>
   <span id="f000926">The son,</span>
   <span id="f000927">as far as he knew,</span>
   <span id="f000928">was in Bristol.</span>
   <span id="f000929">It was mere chance that he was within earshot.</span>
   <span id="f000930">The ’Cooee!’ was meant to attract the attention of whoever it was that he had the appointment with.</span>
   <span id="f000931">But ’Cooee’ is a distinctly Australian cry,</span>
   <span id="f000932">and one which is used between Australians.</span>
   <span id="f000933">There is a strong presumption that the person whom McCarthy expected to meet him at Boscombe Pool was someone who had been in Australia.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">“What of the rat,</span>
   <span id="f000935">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000936">Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table.</span>
   <span id="f000937">“This is a map of the Colony of Victoria,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000938">“I wired to Bristol for it last night.” He put his hand over part of the map.</span>
   <span id="f000939">“What do you read?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000940">“ARAT,” I read.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">“And now?” He raised his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">“BALLARAT.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000943">“Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000944">That was the word the man uttered,</span>
   <span id="f000945">and of which his son only caught the last two syllables.</span>
   <span id="f000946">He was trying to utter the name of his murderer.</span>
   <span id="f000947">So and so,</span>
   <span id="f000948">of Ballarat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000949">“It is wonderful!” I exclaimed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">“It is obvious.</span>
   <span id="f000951">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000952">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000953">I had narrowed the field down considerably.</span>
   <span id="f000954">The possession of a grey garment was a third point which,</span>
   <span id="f000955">granting the son’s statement to be correct,</span>
   <span id="f000956">was a certainty.</span>
   <span id="f000957">We have come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of an Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000958">“Certainly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">“And one who was at home in the district,</span>
   <span id="f000960">for the pool can only be approached by the farm or by the estate,</span>
   <span id="f000961">where strangers could hardly wander.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000962">“Quite so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000963">“Then comes our expedition of to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000964">By an examination of the ground I gained the trifling details which I gave to that imbecile Lestrade,</span>
   <span id="f000965">as to the personality of the criminal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000966">“But how did you gain them?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000967">“You know my method.</span>
   <span id="f000968">It is founded upon the observation of trifles.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000969">“His height I know that you might roughly judge from the length of his stride.</span>
   <span id="f000970">His boots,</span>
   <span id="f000971">too,</span>
   <span id="f000972">might be told from their traces.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000973">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000974">they were peculiar boots.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000975">“But his lameness?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000976">“The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his left.</span>
   <span id="f000977">He put less weight upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000978">Why?</span>
   <span id="f000979">Because he limped – he was lame.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000980">“But his left-handedness.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“You were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by the surgeon at the inquest.</span>
   <span id="f000982">The blow was struck from immediately behind,</span>
   <span id="f000983">and yet was upon the left side.</span>
   <span id="f000984">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000985">how can that be unless it were by a left-handed man?</span>
   <span id="f000986">He had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son.</span>
   <span id="f000987">He had even smoked there.</span>
   <span id="f000988">I found the ash of a cigar,</span>
   <span id="f000989">which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables me to pronounce as an Indian cigar.</span>
   <span id="f000990">I have,</span>
   <span id="f000991">as you know,</span>
   <span id="f000992">devoted some attention to this,</span>
   <span id="f000993">and written a little monograph on the ashes of 140 different varieties of pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000994">cigar,</span>
   <span id="f000995">and cigarette tobacco.</span>
   <span id="f000996">Having found the ash,</span>
   <span id="f000997">I then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss where he had tossed it.</span>
   <span id="f000998">It was an Indian cigar,</span>
   <span id="f000999">of the variety which are rolled in Rotterdam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001000">“And the cigar-holder?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001001">“I could see that the end had not been in his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f001002">Therefore he used a holder.</span>
   <span id="f001003">The tip had been cut off,</span>
   <span id="f001004">not bitten off,</span>
   <span id="f001005">but the cut was not a clean one,</span>
   <span id="f001006">so I deduced a blunt pen-knife.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001007">“Holmes,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f001008">“you have drawn a net round this man from which he cannot escape,</span>
   <span id="f001009">and you have saved an innocent human life as truly as if you had cut the cord which was hanging him.</span>
   <span id="f001010">I see the direction in which all this points.</span>
   <span id="f001011">The culprit is – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001012">“Mr.&#160;John Turner,” cried the hotel waiter,</span>
   <span id="f001013">opening the door of our sitting-room,</span>
   <span id="f001014">and ushering in a visitor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001015">The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure.</span>
   <span id="f001016">His slow,</span>
   <span id="f001017">limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude,</span>
   <span id="f001018">and yet his hard,</span>
   <span id="f001019">deep-lined,</span>
   <span id="f001020">craggy features,</span>
   <span id="f001021">and his enormous limbs showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body and of character.</span>
   <span id="f001022">His tangled beard,</span>
   <span id="f001023">grizzled hair,</span>
   <span id="f001024">and outstanding,</span>
   <span id="f001025">drooping eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his appearance,</span>
   <span id="f001026">but his face was of an ashen white,</span>
   <span id="f001027">while his lips and the corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue.</span>
   <span id="f001028">It was clear to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic disease.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001029">“Pray sit down on the sofa,” said Holmes gently.</span>
   <span id="f001030">“You had my note?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001031">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001032">the lodge-keeper brought it up.</span>
   <span id="f001033">You said that you wished to see me here to avoid scandal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001034">“I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001035">“And why did you wish to see me?” He looked across at my companion with despair in his weary eyes,</span>
   <span id="f001036">as though his question was already answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001037">“Yes,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001038">answering the look rather than the words.</span>
   <span id="f001039">“It is so.</span>
   <span id="f001040">I know all about McCarthy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001041">The old man sank his face in his hands.</span>
   <span id="f001042">“God help me!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f001043">“But I would not have let the young man come to harm.</span>
   <span id="f001044">I give you my word that I would have spoken out if it went against him at the Assizes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001045">“I am glad to hear you say so,” said Holmes gravely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001046">“I would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl.</span>
   <span id="f001047">It would break her heart – it will break her heart when she hears that I am arrested.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001048">“It may not come to that,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001049">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001050">“I am no official agent.</span>
   <span id="f001051">I understand that it was your daughter who required my presence here,</span>
   <span id="f001052">and I am acting in her interests.</span>
   <span id="f001053">Young McCarthy must be got off,</span>
   <span id="f001054">however.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001055">“I am a dying man,” said old Turner.</span>
   <span id="f001056">“I have had diabetes for years.</span>
   <span id="f001057">My doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a month.</span>
   <span id="f001058">Yet I would rather die under my own roof than in a gaol.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001059">Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a bundle of paper before him.</span>
   <span id="f001060">“Just tell us the truth,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f001061">“I shall jot down the facts.</span>
   <span id="f001062">You will sign it,</span>
   <span id="f001063">and Watson here can witness it.</span>
   <span id="f001064">Then I could produce your confession at the last extremity to save young McCarthy.</span>
   <span id="f001065">I promise you that I shall not use it unless it is absolutely needed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001066">“It’s as well,” said the old man;</span>
   <span id="f001067">"it’s a question whether I shall live to the Assizes,</span>
   <span id="f001068">so it matters little to me,</span>
   <span id="f001069">but I should wish to spare Alice the shock.</span>
   <span id="f001070">And now I will make the thing clear to you;</span>
   <span id="f001071">it has been a long time in the acting,</span>
   <span id="f001072">but will not take me long to tell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001073">You didn’t know this dead man,</span>
   <span id="f001074">McCarthy.</span>
   <span id="f001075">He was a devil incarnate.</span>
   <span id="f001076">I tell you that.</span>
   <span id="f001077">God keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he.</span>
   <span id="f001078">His grip has been upon me these twenty years,</span>
   <span id="f001079">and he has blasted my life.</span>
   <span id="f001080">I’ll tell you first how I came to be in his power.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001081">It was in the early ’60’s at the diggings.</span>
   <span id="f001082">I was a young chap then,</span>
   <span id="f001083">hot-blooded and reckless,</span>
   <span id="f001084">ready to turn my hand at anything;</span>
   <span id="f001085">I got among bad companions,</span>
   <span id="f001086">took to drink,</span>
   <span id="f001087">had no luck with my claim,</span>
   <span id="f001088">took to the bush,</span>
   <span id="f001089">and in a word became what you would call over here a highway robber.</span>
   <span id="f001090">There were six of us,</span>
   <span id="f001091">and we had a wild,</span>
   <span id="f001092">free life of it,</span>
   <span id="f001093">sticking up a station from time to time,</span>
   <span id="f001094">or stopping the wagons on the road to the diggings.</span>
   <span id="f001095">Black Jack of Ballarat was the name I went under,</span>
   <span id="f001096">and our party is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001097">One day a gold convoy came down from Ballarat to Melbourne,</span>
   <span id="f001098">and we lay in wait for it and attacked it.</span>
   <span id="f001099">There were six troopers and six of us,</span>
   <span id="f001100">so it was a close thing,</span>
   <span id="f001101">but we emptied four of their saddles at the first volley.</span>
   <span id="f001102">Three of our boys were killed,</span>
   <span id="f001103">however,</span>
   <span id="f001104">before we got the swag.</span>
   <span id="f001105">I put my pistol to the head of the wagon-driver,</span>
   <span id="f001106">who was this very man McCarthy.</span>
   <span id="f001107">I wish to the Lord that I had shot him then,</span>
   <span id="f001108">but I spared him,</span>
   <span id="f001109">though I saw his wicked little eyes fixed on my face,</span>
   <span id="f001110">as though to remember every feature.</span>
   <span id="f001111">We got away with the gold,</span>
   <span id="f001112">became wealthy men,</span>
   <span id="f001113">and made our way over to England without being suspected.</span>
   <span id="f001114">There I parted from my old pals and determined to settle down to a quiet and respectable life.</span>
   <span id="f001115">I bought this estate,</span>
   <span id="f001116">which chanced to be in the market,</span>
   <span id="f001117">and I set myself to do a little good with my money,</span>
   <span id="f001118">to make up for the way in which I had earned it.</span>
   <span id="f001119">I married,</span>
   <span id="f001120">too,</span>
   <span id="f001121">and though my wife died young she left me my dear little Alice.</span>
   <span id="f001122">Even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done.</span>
   <span id="f001123">In a word,</span>
   <span id="f001124">I turned over a new leaf and did my best to make up for the past.</span>
   <span id="f001125">All was going well when McCarthy laid his grip upon me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001126">I had gone up to town about an investment,</span>
   <span id="f001127">and I met him in Regent Street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his foot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001128">’Here we are,</span>
   <span id="f001129">Jack,’ says he,</span>
   <span id="f001130">touching me on the arm;</span>
   <span id="f001131">’we’ll be as good as a family to you.</span>
   <span id="f001132">There’s two of us,</span>
   <span id="f001133">me and my son,</span>
   <span id="f001134">and you can have the keeping of us.</span>
   <span id="f001135">If you don’t – it’s a fine,</span>
   <span id="f001136">law-abiding country is England,</span>
   <span id="f001137">and there’s always a policeman within hail.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001138">Well,</span>
   <span id="f001139">down they came to the west country,</span>
   <span id="f001140">there was no shaking them off,</span>
   <span id="f001141">and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since.</span>
   <span id="f001142">There was no rest for me,</span>
   <span id="f001143">no peace,</span>
   <span id="f001144">no forgetfulness;</span>
   <span id="f001145">turn where I would,</span>
   <span id="f001146">there was his cunning,</span>
   <span id="f001147">grinning face at my elbow.</span>
   <span id="f001148">It grew worse as Alice grew up,</span>
   <span id="f001149">for he soon saw I was more afraid of her knowing my past than of the police.</span>
   <span id="f001150">Whatever he wanted he must have,</span>
   <span id="f001151">and whatever it was I gave him without question,</span>
   <span id="f001152">land,</span>
   <span id="f001153">money,</span>
   <span id="f001154">houses,</span>
   <span id="f001155">until at last he asked a thing which I could not give.</span>
   <span id="f001156">He asked for Alice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001157">His son,</span>
   <span id="f001158">you see,</span>
   <span id="f001159">had grown up,</span>
   <span id="f001160">and so had my girl,</span>
   <span id="f001161">and as I was known to be in weak health,</span>
   <span id="f001162">it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad should step into the whole property.</span>
   <span id="f001163">But there I was firm.</span>
   <span id="f001164">I would not have his cursed stock mixed with mine;</span>
   <span id="f001165">not that I had any dislike to the lad,</span>
   <span id="f001166">but his blood was in him,</span>
   <span id="f001167">and that was enough.</span>
   <span id="f001168">I stood firm.</span>
   <span id="f001169">McCarthy threatened.</span>
   <span id="f001170">I braved him to do his worst.</span>
   <span id="f001171">We were to meet at the pool midway between our houses to talk it over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001172">“When I went down there I found him talking with his son,</span>
   <span id="f001173">so I smoked a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone.</span>
   <span id="f001174">But as I listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come uppermost.</span>
   <span id="f001175">He was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little regard for what she might think as if she were a slut from off the streets.</span>
   <span id="f001176">It drove me mad to think that I and all that I held most dear should be in the power of such a man as this.</span>
   <span id="f001177">Could I not snap the bond?</span>
   <span id="f001178">I was already a dying and a desperate man.</span>
   <span id="f001179">Though clear of mind and fairly strong of limb,</span>
   <span id="f001180">I knew that my own fate was sealed.</span>
   <span id="f001181">But my memory and my girl!</span>
   <span id="f001182">Both could be saved if I could but silence that foul tongue.</span>
   <span id="f001183">I did it,</span>
   <span id="f001184">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f001185">I would do it again.</span>
   <span id="f001186">Deeply as I have sinned,</span>
   <span id="f001187">I have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it.</span>
   <span id="f001188">But that my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more than I could suffer.</span>
   <span id="f001189">I struck him down with no more compunction than if he had been some foul and venomous beast.</span>
   <span id="f001190">His cry brought back his son;</span>
   <span id="f001191">but I had gained the cover of the wood,</span>
   <span id="f001192">though I was forced to go back to fetch the cloak which I had dropped in my flight.</span>
   <span id="f001193">That is the true story,</span>
   <span id="f001194">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f001195">of all that occurred.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001196">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001197">it is not for me to judge you,” said Holmes as the old man signed the statement which had been drawn out.</span>
   <span id="f001198">“I pray that we may never be exposed to such a temptation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001199">“I pray not,</span>
   <span id="f001200">sir.</span>
   <span id="f001201">And what do you intend to do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001202">“In view of your health,</span>
   <span id="f001203">nothing.</span>
   <span id="f001204">You are yourself aware that you will soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the Assizes.</span>
   <span id="f001205">I will keep your confession,</span>
   <span id="f001206">and if McCarthy is condemned I shall be forced to use it.</span>
   <span id="f001207">If not,</span>
   <span id="f001208">it shall never be seen by mortal eye;</span>
   <span id="f001209">and your secret,</span>
   <span id="f001210">whether you be alive or dead,</span>
   <span id="f001211">shall be safe with us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001212">“Farewell,</span>
   <span id="f001213">then,” said the old man solemnly.</span>
   <span id="f001214">“Your own deathbeds,</span>
   <span id="f001215">when they come,</span>
   <span id="f001216">will be the easier for the thought of the peace which you have given to mine.” Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame,</span>
   <span id="f001217">he stumbled slowly from the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001218">“God help us!” said Holmes after a long silence.</span>
   <span id="f001219">“Why does fate play such tricks with poor,</span>
   <span id="f001220">helpless worms?</span>
   <span id="f001221">I never hear of such a case as this that I do not think of Baxter’s words,</span>
   <span id="f001222">and say,</span>
   <span id="f001223">’There,</span>
   <span id="f001224">but for the grace of God,</span>
   <span id="f001225">goes Sherlock Holmes.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001226">James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of a number of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and submitted to the defending counsel.</span>
   <span id="f001227">Old Turner lived for seven months after our interview,</span>
   <span id="f001228">but he is now dead;</span>
   <span id="f001229">and there is every prospect that the son and daughter may come to live happily together in ignorance of the black cloud which rests upon their past.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

