<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Eric S. Piotrowski</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Pit and the Pendulum</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edgar Allan Poe</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000007">Impia tortorum longos hic turba furores<br /></span>
   <span id="f000008">Sanguinis innocui,</span>
   <span id="f000009">non satiata,</span>
   <span id="f000010">aluit.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000011">Sospite nunc patria,</span>
   <span id="f000012">fracto nunc funeris antro,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000013">Mors ubi dira fuit vita salusque patent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014"><em>Quatrain composed for the gates of a market to be erected<br /></em></span>
   <span id="f000015"><em>upon the site of the Jacobin Club House at Paris</em>.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000016">I was sick – sick unto death with that long agony;</span>
   <span id="f000017">and when they at length unbound me,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and I was permitted to sit,</span>
   <span id="f000019">I felt that my senses were leaving me.</span>
   <span id="f000020">The sentence – the dread sentence of death – was the last of distinct accentuation which reached my ears.</span>
   <span id="f000021">After that,</span>
   <span id="f000022">the sound of the inquisitorial voices seemed merged in one dreamy indeterminate hum.</span>
   <span id="f000023">It conveyed to my soul the idea of revolution – perhaps from its association in fancy with the burr of a mill wheel.</span>
   <span id="f000024">This only for a brief period;</span>
   <span id="f000025">for presently I heard no more.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000027">for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000028">I saw;</span>
   <span id="f000029">but with how terrible an exaggeration!</span>
   <span id="f000030">I saw the lips of the black-robed judges.</span>
   <span id="f000031">They appeared to me white – whiter than the sheet upon which I trace these words – and thin even to grotesqueness;</span>
   <span id="f000032">thin with the intensity of their expression of firmness – of immoveable resolution – of stern contempt of human torture.</span>
   <span id="f000033">I saw that the decrees of what to me was Fate,</span>
   <span id="f000034">were still issuing from those lips.</span>
   <span id="f000035">I saw them writhe with a deadly locution.</span>
   <span id="f000036">I saw them fashion the syllables of my name;</span>
   <span id="f000037">and I shuddered because no sound succeeded.</span>
   <span id="f000038">I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000039">too,</span>
   <span id="f000040">for a few moments of delirious horror,</span>
   <span id="f000041">the soft and nearly imperceptible waving of the sable draperies which enwrapped the walls of the apartment.</span>
   <span id="f000042">And then my vision fell upon the seven tall candles upon the table.</span>
   <span id="f000043">At first they wore the aspect of charity,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and seemed white and slender angels who would save me;</span>
   <span id="f000045">but then,</span>
   <span id="f000046">all at once,</span>
   <span id="f000047">there came a most deadly nausea over my spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and I felt every fibre in my frame thrill as if I had touched the wire of a galvanic battery,</span>
   <span id="f000049">while the angel forms became meaningless spectres,</span>
   <span id="f000050">with heads of flame,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and I saw that from them there would be no help.</span>
   <span id="f000052">And then there stole into my fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000053">like a rich musical note,</span>
   <span id="f000054">the thought of what sweet rest there must be in the grave.</span>
   <span id="f000055">The thought came gently and stealthily,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and it seemed long before it attained full appreciation;</span>
   <span id="f000057">but just as my spirit came at length properly to feel and entertain it,</span>
   <span id="f000058">the figures of the judges vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000059">as if magically,</span>
   <span id="f000060">from before me;</span>
   <span id="f000061">the tall candles sank into nothingness;</span>
   <span id="f000062">their flames went out utterly;</span>
   <span id="f000063">the blackness of darkness supervened;</span>
   <span id="f000064">all sensations appeared swallowed up in a mad rushing descent as of the soul into Hades.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Then silence,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and stillness,</span>
   <span id="f000067">night were the universe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">I had swooned;</span>
   <span id="f000069">but still will not say that all of consciousness was lost.</span>
   <span id="f000070">What of it there remained I will not attempt to define,</span>
   <span id="f000071">or even to describe;</span>
   <span id="f000072">yet all was not lost.</span>
   <span id="f000073">In the deepest slumber – no!</span>
   <span id="f000074">In delirium – no!</span>
   <span id="f000075">In a swoon – no!</span>
   <span id="f000076">In death – no!</span>
   <span id="f000077">even in the grave all is not lost.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Else there is no immortality for man.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Arousing from the most profound of slumbers,</span>
   <span id="f000080">we break the gossamer web of some dream.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Yet in a second afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000082">(so frail may that web have been)</span>
   <span id="f000083">we remember not that we have dreamed.</span>
   <span id="f000084">In the return to life from the swoon there are two stages;</span>
   <span id="f000085">first,</span>
   <span id="f000086">that of the sense of mental or spiritual;</span>
   <span id="f000087">secondly,</span>
   <span id="f000088">that of the sense of physical,</span>
   <span id="f000089">existence.</span>
   <span id="f000090">It seems probable that if,</span>
   <span id="f000091">upon reaching the second stage,</span>
   <span id="f000092">we could recall the impressions of the first,</span>
   <span id="f000093">we should find these impressions eloquent in memories of the gulf beyond.</span>
   <span id="f000094">And that gulf is – what?</span>
   <span id="f000095">How at least shall we distinguish its shadows from those of the tomb?</span>
   <span id="f000096">But if the impressions of what I have termed the first stage,</span>
   <span id="f000097">are not,</span>
   <span id="f000098">at will,</span>
   <span id="f000099">recalled,</span>
   <span id="f000100">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000101">after long interval,</span>
   <span id="f000102">do they not come unbidden,</span>
   <span id="f000103">while we marvel whence they come?</span>
   <span id="f000104">He who has never swooned,</span>
   <span id="f000105">is not he who finds strange palaces and wildly familiar faces in coals that glow;</span>
   <span id="f000106">is not he who beholds floating in mid-air the sad visions that the many may not view;</span>
   <span id="f000107">is not he who ponders over the perfume of some novel flower – is not he whose brain grows bewildered with the meaning of some musical cadence which has never before arrested his attention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">Amid frequent and thoughtful endeavors to remember;</span>
   <span id="f000109">amid earnest struggles to regather some token of the state of seeming nothingness into which my soul had lapsed,</span>
   <span id="f000110">there have been moments when I have dreamed of success;</span>
   <span id="f000111">there have been brief,</span>
   <span id="f000112">very brief periods when I have conjured up remembrances which the lucid reason of a later epoch assures me could have had reference only to that condition of seeming unconsciousness.</span>
   <span id="f000113">These shadows of memory tell,</span>
   <span id="f000114">indistinctly,</span>
   <span id="f000115">of tall figures that lifted and bore me in silence down – down – still down – till a hideous dizziness oppressed me at the mere idea of the interminableness of the descent.</span>
   <span id="f000116">They tell also of a vague horror at my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000117">on account of that heart’s unnatural stillness.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Then comes a sense of sudden motionlessness throughout all things;</span>
   <span id="f000119">as if those who bore me</span>
   <span id="f000120">(a ghastly train!)</span>
   <span id="f000121">had outrun,</span>
   <span id="f000122">in their descent,</span>
   <span id="f000123">the limits of the limitless,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and paused from the wearisomeness of their toil.</span>
   <span id="f000125">After this I call to mind flatness and dampness;</span>
   <span id="f000126">and then all is madness – the madness of a memory which busies itself among forbidden things.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">Very suddenly there came back to my soul motion and sound – the tumultuous motion of the heart,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and,</span>
   <span id="f000129">in my ears,</span>
   <span id="f000130">the sound of its beating.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Then a pause in which all is blank.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Then again sound,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and motion,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and touch – a tingling sensation pervading my frame.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Then the mere consciousness of existence,</span>
   <span id="f000136">without thought – a condition which lasted long.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000138">very suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000139">thought,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and shuddering terror,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and earnest endeavor to comprehend my true state.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Then a strong desire to lapse into insensibility.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Then a rushing revival of soul and a successful effort to move.</span>
   <span id="f000144">And now a full memory of the trial,</span>
   <span id="f000145">of the judges,</span>
   <span id="f000146">of the sable draperies,</span>
   <span id="f000147">of the sentence,</span>
   <span id="f000148">of the sickness,</span>
   <span id="f000149">of the swoon.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Then entire forgetfulness of all that followed;</span>
   <span id="f000151">of all that a later day and much earnestness of endeavor have enabled me vaguely to recall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">So far,</span>
   <span id="f000153">I had not opened my eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000154">I felt that I lay upon my back,</span>
   <span id="f000155">unbound.</span>
   <span id="f000156">I reached out my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and it fell heavily upon something damp and hard.</span>
   <span id="f000158">There I suffered it to remain for many minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000159">while I strove to imagine where and what I could be.</span>
   <span id="f000160">I longed,</span>
   <span id="f000161">yet dared not to employ my vision.</span>
   <span id="f000162">I dreaded the first glance at objects around me.</span>
   <span id="f000163">It was not that I feared to look upon things horrible,</span>
   <span id="f000164">but that I grew aghast lest there should be nothing to see.</span>
   <span id="f000165">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000166">with a wild desperation at heart,</span>
   <span id="f000167">I quickly unclosed my eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000168">My worst thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000169">then,</span>
   <span id="f000170">were confirmed.</span>
   <span id="f000171">The blackness of eternal night encompassed me.</span>
   <span id="f000172">I struggled for breath.</span>
   <span id="f000173">The intensity of the darkness seemed to oppress and stifle me.</span>
   <span id="f000174">The atmosphere was intolerably close.</span>
   <span id="f000175">I still lay quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and made effort to exercise my reason.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I brought to mind the inquisitorial proceedings,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and attempted from that point to deduce my real condition.</span>
   <span id="f000179">The sentence had passed;</span>
   <span id="f000180">and it appeared to me that a very long interval of time had since elapsed.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Yet not for a moment did I suppose myself actually dead.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Such a supposition,</span>
   <span id="f000183">notwithstanding what we read in fiction,</span>
   <span id="f000184">is altogether inconsistent with real existence;</span>
   <span id="f000185">– but where and in what state was I?</span>
   <span id="f000186">The condemned to death,</span>
   <span id="f000187">I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000188">perished usually at the autos-da-fe,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and one of these had been held on the very night of the day of my trial.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Had I been remanded to my dungeon,</span>
   <span id="f000191">to await the next sacrifice,</span>
   <span id="f000192">which would not take place for many months?</span>
   <span id="f000193">This I at once saw could not be.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Victims had been in immediate demand.</span>
   <span id="f000195">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000196">my dungeon,</span>
   <span id="f000197">as well as all the condemned cells at Toledo,</span>
   <span id="f000198">had stone floors,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and light was not altogether excluded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">A fearful idea now suddenly drove the blood in torrents upon my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and for a brief period,</span>
   <span id="f000202">I once more relapsed into insensibility.</span>
   <span id="f000203">Upon recovering,</span>
   <span id="f000204">I at once started to my feet,</span>
   <span id="f000205">trembling convulsively in every fibre.</span>
   <span id="f000206">I thrust my arms wildly above and around me in all directions.</span>
   <span id="f000207">I felt nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000208">yet dreaded to move a step,</span>
   <span id="f000209">lest I should be impeded by the walls of a tomb.</span>
   <span id="f000210">Perspiration burst from every pore,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and stood in cold big beads upon my forehead.</span>
   <span id="f000212">The agony of suspense grew at length intolerable,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and I cautiously moved forward,</span>
   <span id="f000214">with my arms extended,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and my eyes straining from their sockets,</span>
   <span id="f000216">in the hope of catching some faint ray of light.</span>
   <span id="f000217">I proceeded for many paces;</span>
   <span id="f000218">but still all was blackness and vacancy.</span>
   <span id="f000219">I breathed more freely.</span>
   <span id="f000220">It seemed evident that mine was not,</span>
   <span id="f000221">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000222">the most hideous of fates.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000224">as I still continued to step cautiously onward,</span>
   <span id="f000225">there came thronging upon my recollection a thousand vague rumors of the horrors of Toledo.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Of the dungeons there had been strange things narrated – fables I had always deemed them – but yet strange,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and too ghastly to repeat,</span>
   <span id="f000228">save in a whisper.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Was I left to perish of starvation in this subterranean world of darkness;</span>
   <span id="f000230">or what fate,</span>
   <span id="f000231">perhaps even more fearful,</span>
   <span id="f000232">awaited me?</span>
   <span id="f000233">That the result would be death,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and a death of more than customary bitterness,</span>
   <span id="f000235">I knew too well the character of my judges to doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000236">The mode and the hour were all that occupied or distracted me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">My outstretched hands at length encountered some solid obstruction.</span>
   <span id="f000238">It was a wall,</span>
   <span id="f000239">seemingly of stone masonry – very smooth,</span>
   <span id="f000240">slimy,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and cold.</span>
   <span id="f000242">I followed it up;</span>
   <span id="f000243">stepping with all the careful distrust with which certain antique narratives had inspired me.</span>
   <span id="f000244">This process,</span>
   <span id="f000245">however,</span>
   <span id="f000246">afforded me no means of ascertaining the dimensions of my dungeon;</span>
   <span id="f000247">as I might make its circuit,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and return to the point whence I set out,</span>
   <span id="f000249">without being aware of the fact;</span>
   <span id="f000250">so perfectly uniform seemed the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000251">I therefore sought the knife which had been in my pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000252">when led into the inquisitorial chamber;</span>
   <span id="f000253">but it was gone;</span>
   <span id="f000254">my clothes had been exchanged for a wrapper of coarse serge.</span>
   <span id="f000255">I had thought of forcing the blade in some minute crevice of the masonry,</span>
   <span id="f000256">so as to identify my point of departure.</span>
   <span id="f000257">The difficulty,</span>
   <span id="f000258">nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000259">was but trivial;</span>
   <span id="f000260">although,</span>
   <span id="f000261">in the disorder of my fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000262">it seemed at first insuperable.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I tore a part of the hem from the robe and placed the fragment at full length,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and at right angles to the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000265">In groping my way around the prison,</span>
   <span id="f000266">I could not fail to encounter this rag upon completing the circuit.</span>
   <span id="f000267">So,</span>
   <span id="f000268">at least I thought:</span>
   <span id="f000269">but I had not counted upon the extent of the dungeon,</span>
   <span id="f000270">or upon my own weakness.</span>
   <span id="f000271">The ground was moist and slippery.</span>
   <span id="f000272">I staggered onward for some time,</span>
   <span id="f000273">when I stumbled and fell.</span>
   <span id="f000274">My excessive fatigue induced me to remain prostrate;</span>
   <span id="f000275">and sleep soon overtook me as I lay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">Upon awaking,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and stretching forth an arm,</span>
   <span id="f000278">I found beside me a loaf and a pitcher with water.</span>
   <span id="f000279">I was too much exhausted to reflect upon this circumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000280">but ate and drank with avidity.</span>
   <span id="f000281">Shortly afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000282">I resumed my tour around the prison,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and with much toil came at last upon the fragment of the serge.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Up to the period when I fell I had counted fifty-two paces,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and upon resuming my walk,</span>
   <span id="f000286">I had counted forty-eight more;</span>
   <span id="f000287">– when I arrived at the rag.</span>
   <span id="f000288">There were in all,</span>
   <span id="f000289">then,</span>
   <span id="f000290">a hundred paces;</span>
   <span id="f000291">and,</span>
   <span id="f000292">admitting two paces to the yard,</span>
   <span id="f000293">I presumed the dungeon to be fifty yards in circuit.</span>
   <span id="f000294">I had met,</span>
   <span id="f000295">however,</span>
   <span id="f000296">with many angles in the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and thus I could form no guess at the shape of the vault;</span>
   <span id="f000298">for vault I could not help supposing it to be.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">I had little object – certainly no hope – in these researches;</span>
   <span id="f000300">but a vague curiosity prompted me to continue them.</span>
   <span id="f000301">Quitting the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000302">I resolved to cross the area of the enclosure.</span>
   <span id="f000303">At first I proceeded with extreme caution,</span>
   <span id="f000304">for the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000305">although seemingly of solid material,</span>
   <span id="f000306">was treacherous with slime.</span>
   <span id="f000307">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000308">however,</span>
   <span id="f000309">I took courage,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and did not hesitate to step firmly;</span>
   <span id="f000311">endeavoring to cross in as direct a line as possible.</span>
   <span id="f000312">I had advanced some ten or twelve paces in this manner,</span>
   <span id="f000313">when the remnant of the torn hem of my robe became entangled between my legs.</span>
   <span id="f000314">I stepped on it,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and fell violently on my face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">In the confusion attending my fall,</span>
   <span id="f000317">I did not immediately apprehend a somewhat startling circumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000318">which yet,</span>
   <span id="f000319">in a few seconds afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and while I still lay prostrate,</span>
   <span id="f000321">arrested my attention.</span>
   <span id="f000322">It was this – my chin rested upon the floor of the prison,</span>
   <span id="f000323">but my lips and the upper portion of my head,</span>
   <span id="f000324">although seemingly at a less elevation than the chin,</span>
   <span id="f000325">touched nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000326">At the same time my forehead seemed bathed in a clammy vapor,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and the peculiar smell of decayed fungus arose to my nostrils.</span>
   <span id="f000328">I put forward my arm,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and shuddered to find that I had fallen at the very brink of a circular pit,</span>
   <span id="f000330">whose extent,</span>
   <span id="f000331">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000332">I had no means of ascertaining at the moment.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Groping about the masonry just below the margin,</span>
   <span id="f000334">I succeeded in dislodging a small fragment,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and let it fall into the abyss.</span>
   <span id="f000336">For many seconds I hearkened to its reverberations as it dashed against the sides of the chasm in its descent;</span>
   <span id="f000337">at length there was a sullen plunge into water,</span>
   <span id="f000338">succeeded by loud echoes.</span>
   <span id="f000339">At the same moment there came a sound resembling the quick opening,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and as rapid closing of a door overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000341">while a faint gleam of light flashed suddenly through the gloom,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and as suddenly faded away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">I saw clearly the doom which had been prepared for me,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and congratulated myself upon the timely accident by which I had escaped.</span>
   <span id="f000345">Another step before my fall,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and the world had seen me no more.</span>
   <span id="f000347">And the death just avoided,</span>
   <span id="f000348">was of that very character which I had regarded as fabulous and frivolous in the tales respecting the Inquisition.</span>
   <span id="f000349">To the victims of its tyranny,</span>
   <span id="f000350">there was the choice of death with its direst physical agonies,</span>
   <span id="f000351">or death with its most hideous moral horrors.</span>
   <span id="f000352">I had been reserved for the latter.</span>
   <span id="f000353">By long suffering my nerves had been unstrung,</span>
   <span id="f000354">until I trembled at the sound of my own voice,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and had become in every respect a fitting subject for the species of torture which awaited me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">Shaking in every limb,</span>
   <span id="f000357">I groped my way back to the wall;</span>
   <span id="f000358">resolving there to perish rather than risk the terrors of the wells,</span>
   <span id="f000359">of which my imagination now pictured many in various positions about the dungeon.</span>
   <span id="f000360">In other conditions of mind I might have had courage to end my misery at once by a plunge into one of these abysses;</span>
   <span id="f000361">but now I was the veriest of cowards.</span>
   <span id="f000362">Neither could I forget what I had read of these pits – that the sudden extinction of life formed no part of their most horrible plan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">Agitation of spirit kept me awake for many long hours;</span>
   <span id="f000364">but at length I again slumbered.</span>
   <span id="f000365">Upon arousing,</span>
   <span id="f000366">I found by my side,</span>
   <span id="f000367">as before,</span>
   <span id="f000368">a loaf and a pitcher of water.</span>
   <span id="f000369">A burning thirst consumed me,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and I emptied the vessel at a draught.</span>
   <span id="f000371">It must have been drugged;</span>
   <span id="f000372">for scarcely had I drunk,</span>
   <span id="f000373">before I became irresistibly drowsy.</span>
   <span id="f000374">A deep sleep fell upon me – a sleep like that of death.</span>
   <span id="f000375">How long it lasted of course,</span>
   <span id="f000376">I know not;</span>
   <span id="f000377">but when,</span>
   <span id="f000378">once again,</span>
   <span id="f000379">I unclosed my eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000380">the objects around me were visible.</span>
   <span id="f000381">By a wild sulphurous lustre,</span>
   <span id="f000382">the origin of which I could not at first determine,</span>
   <span id="f000383">I was enabled to see the extent and aspect of the prison.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">In its size I had been greatly mistaken.</span>
   <span id="f000385">The whole circuit of its walls did not exceed twenty-five yards.</span>
   <span id="f000386">For some minutes this fact occasioned me a world of vain trouble;</span>
   <span id="f000387">vain indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000388">for what could be of less importance,</span>
   <span id="f000389">under the terrible circumstances which environed me,</span>
   <span id="f000390">then the mere dimensions of my dungeon?</span>
   <span id="f000391">But my soul took a wild interest in trifles,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and I busied myself in endeavors to account for the error I had committed in my measurement.</span>
   <span id="f000393">The truth at length flashed upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000394">In my first attempt at exploration I had counted fifty-two paces,</span>
   <span id="f000395">up to the period when I fell;</span>
   <span id="f000396">I must then have been within a pace or two of the fragment of serge;</span>
   <span id="f000397">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000398">I had nearly performed the circuit of the vault.</span>
   <span id="f000399">I then slept,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and upon awaking,</span>
   <span id="f000401">I must have returned upon my steps – thus supposing the circuit nearly double what it actually was.</span>
   <span id="f000402">My confusion of mind prevented me from observing that I began my tour with the wall to the left,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and ended it with the wall to the right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">I had been deceived,</span>
   <span id="f000405">too,</span>
   <span id="f000406">in respect to the shape of the enclosure.</span>
   <span id="f000407">In feeling my way I had found many angles,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and thus deduced an idea of great irregularity;</span>
   <span id="f000409">so potent is the effect of total darkness upon one arousing from lethargy or sleep!</span>
   <span id="f000410">The angles were simply those of a few slight depressions,</span>
   <span id="f000411">or niches,</span>
   <span id="f000412">at odd intervals.</span>
   <span id="f000413">The general shape of the prison was square.</span>
   <span id="f000414">What I had taken for masonry seemed now to be iron,</span>
   <span id="f000415">or some other metal,</span>
   <span id="f000416">in huge plates,</span>
   <span id="f000417">whose sutures or joints occasioned the depression.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The entire surface of this metallic enclosure was rudely daubed in all the hideous and repulsive devices to which the charnel superstition of the monks has given rise.</span>
   <span id="f000419">The figures of fiends in aspects of menace,</span>
   <span id="f000420">with skeleton forms,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and other more really fearful images,</span>
   <span id="f000422">overspread and disfigured the walls.</span>
   <span id="f000423">I observed that the outlines of these monstrosities were sufficiently distinct,</span>
   <span id="f000424">but that the colors seemed faded and blurred,</span>
   <span id="f000425">as if from the effects of a damp atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000426">I now noticed the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000427">too,</span>
   <span id="f000428">which was of stone.</span>
   <span id="f000429">In the centre yawned the circular pit from whose jaws I had escaped;</span>
   <span id="f000430">but it was the only one in the dungeon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">All this I saw indistinctly and by much effort:</span>
   <span id="f000432">for my personal condition had been greatly changed during slumber.</span>
   <span id="f000433">I now lay upon my back,</span>
   <span id="f000434">and at full length,</span>
   <span id="f000435">on a species of low framework of wood.</span>
   <span id="f000436">To this I was securely bound by a long strap resembling a surcingle.</span>
   <span id="f000437">It passed in many convolutions about my limbs and body,</span>
   <span id="f000438">leaving at liberty only my head,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and my left arm to such extent that I could,</span>
   <span id="f000440">by dint of much exertion,</span>
   <span id="f000441">supply myself with food from an earthen dish which lay by my side on the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000442">I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000443">to my horror,</span>
   <span id="f000444">that the pitcher had been removed.</span>
   <span id="f000445">I say to my horror;</span>
   <span id="f000446">for I was consumed with intolerable thirst.</span>
   <span id="f000447">This thirst it appeared to be the design of my persecutors to stimulate:</span>
   <span id="f000448">for the food in the dish was meat pungently seasoned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">Looking upward,</span>
   <span id="f000450">I surveyed the ceiling of my prison.</span>
   <span id="f000451">It was some thirty or forty feet overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and constructed much as the side walls.</span>
   <span id="f000453">In one of its panels a very singular figure riveted my whole attention.</span>
   <span id="f000454">It was the painted figure of Time as he is commonly represented,</span>
   <span id="f000455">save that,</span>
   <span id="f000456">in lieu of a scythe,</span>
   <span id="f000457">he held what,</span>
   <span id="f000458">at a casual glance,</span>
   <span id="f000459">I supposed to be the pictured image of a huge pendulum such as we see on antique clocks.</span>
   <span id="f000460">There was something,</span>
   <span id="f000461">however,</span>
   <span id="f000462">in the appearance of this machine which caused me to regard it more attentively.</span>
   <span id="f000463">While I gazed directly upward at it</span>
   <span id="f000464">(for its position was immediately over my own)</span>
   <span id="f000465">I fancied that I saw it in motion.</span>
   <span id="f000466">In an instant afterward the fancy was confirmed.</span>
   <span id="f000467">Its sweep was brief,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and of course slow.</span>
   <span id="f000469">I watched it for some minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000470">somewhat in fear,</span>
   <span id="f000471">but more in wonder.</span>
   <span id="f000472">Wearied at length with observing its dull movement,</span>
   <span id="f000473">I turned my eyes upon the other objects in the cell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">A slight noise attracted my notice,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and,</span>
   <span id="f000476">looking to the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000477">I saw several enormous rats traversing it.</span>
   <span id="f000478">They had issued from the well,</span>
   <span id="f000479">which lay just within view to my right.</span>
   <span id="f000480">Even then,</span>
   <span id="f000481">while I gazed,</span>
   <span id="f000482">they came up in troops,</span>
   <span id="f000483">hurriedly,</span>
   <span id="f000484">with ravenous eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000485">allured by the scent of the meat.</span>
   <span id="f000486">From this it required much effort and attention to scare them away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">It might have been half an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000488">perhaps even an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000489">(for I could take but imperfect note of time)</span>
   <span id="f000490">before I again cast my eyes upward.</span>
   <span id="f000491">What I then saw confounded and amazed me.</span>
   <span id="f000492">The sweep of the pendulum had increased in extent by nearly a yard.</span>
   <span id="f000493">As a natural consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000494">its velocity was also much greater.</span>
   <span id="f000495">But what mainly disturbed me was the idea that had perceptibly descended.</span>
   <span id="f000496">I now observed – with what horror it is needless to say – that its nether extremity was formed of a crescent of glittering steel,</span>
   <span id="f000497">about a foot in length from horn to horn;</span>
   <span id="f000498">the horns upward,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and the under edge evidently as keen as that of a razor.</span>
   <span id="f000500">Like a razor also,</span>
   <span id="f000501">it seemed massy and heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000502">tapering from the edge into a solid and broad structure above.</span>
   <span id="f000503">It was appended to a weighty rod of brass,</span>
   <span id="f000504">and the whole hissed as it swung through the air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">I could no longer doubt the doom prepared for me by monkish ingenuity in torture.</span>
   <span id="f000506">My cognizance of the pit had become known to the inquisitorial agents – the pit whose horrors had been destined for so bold a recusant as myself – the pit,</span>
   <span id="f000507">typical of hell,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and regarded by rumor as the Ultima Thule of all their punishments.</span>
   <span id="f000509">The plunge into this pit I had avoided by the merest of accidents,</span>
   <span id="f000510">I knew that surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000511">or entrapment into torment,</span>
   <span id="f000512">formed an important portion of all the grotesquerie of these dungeon deaths.</span>
   <span id="f000513">Having failed to fall,</span>
   <span id="f000514">it was no part of the demon plan to hurl me into the abyss;</span>
   <span id="f000515">and thus</span>
   <span id="f000516">(there being no alternative)</span>
   <span id="f000517">a different and a milder destruction awaited me.</span>
   <span id="f000518">Milder!</span>
   <span id="f000519">I half smiled in my agony as I thought of such application of such a term.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">What boots it to tell of the long,</span>
   <span id="f000521">long hours of horror more than mortal,</span>
   <span id="f000522">during which I counted the rushing vibrations of the steel!</span>
   <span id="f000523">Inch by inch – line by line – with a descent only appreciable at intervals that seemed ages – down and still down it came!</span>
   <span id="f000524">Days passed – it might have been that many days passed – ere it swept so closely over me as to fan me with its acrid breath.</span>
   <span id="f000525">The odor of the sharp steel forced itself into my nostrils.</span>
   <span id="f000526">I prayed – I wearied heaven with my prayer for its more speedy descent.</span>
   <span id="f000527">I grew frantically mad,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and struggled to force myself upward against the sweep of the fearful scimitar.</span>
   <span id="f000529">And then I fell suddenly calm,</span>
   <span id="f000530">and lay smiling at the glittering death,</span>
   <span id="f000531">as a child at some rare bauble.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">There was another interval of utter insensibility;</span>
   <span id="f000533">it was brief;</span>
   <span id="f000534">for,</span>
   <span id="f000535">upon again lapsing into life there had been no perceptible descent in the pendulum.</span>
   <span id="f000536">But it might have been long;</span>
   <span id="f000537">for I knew there were demons who took note of my swoon,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and who could have arrested the vibration at pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000539">Upon my recovery,</span>
   <span id="f000540">too,</span>
   <span id="f000541">I felt very – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000542">inexpressibly sick and weak,</span>
   <span id="f000543">as if through long inanition.</span>
   <span id="f000544">Even amid the agonies of that period,</span>
   <span id="f000545">the human nature craved food.</span>
   <span id="f000546">With painful effort I outstretched my left arm as far as my bonds permitted,</span>
   <span id="f000547">and took possession of the small remnant which had been spared me by the rats.</span>
   <span id="f000548">As I put a portion of it within my lips,</span>
   <span id="f000549">there rushed to my mind a half formed thought of joy – of hope.</span>
   <span id="f000550">Yet what business had I with hope?</span>
   <span id="f000551">It was,</span>
   <span id="f000552">as I say,</span>
   <span id="f000553">a half formed thought – man has many such which are never completed.</span>
   <span id="f000554">I felt that it was of joy – of hope;</span>
   <span id="f000555">but felt also that it had perished in its formation.</span>
   <span id="f000556">In vain I struggled to perfect – to regain it.</span>
   <span id="f000557">Long suffering had nearly annihilated all my ordinary powers of mind.</span>
   <span id="f000558">I was an imbecile – an idiot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">The vibration of the pendulum was at right angles to my length.</span>
   <span id="f000560">I saw that the crescent was designed to cross the region of the heart.</span>
   <span id="f000561">It would fray the serge of my robe – it would return and repeat its operations – again – and again.</span>
   <span id="f000562">Notwithstanding terrifically wide sweep</span>
   <span id="f000563">(some thirty feet or more)</span>
   <span id="f000564">and the hissing vigor of its descent,</span>
   <span id="f000565">sufficient to sunder these very walls of iron,</span>
   <span id="f000566">still the fraying of my robe would be all that,</span>
   <span id="f000567">for several minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000568">it would accomplish.</span>
   <span id="f000569">And at this thought I paused.</span>
   <span id="f000570">I dared not go farther than this reflection.</span>
   <span id="f000571">I dwelt upon it with a pertinacity of attention – as if,</span>
   <span id="f000572">in so dwelling,</span>
   <span id="f000573">I could arrest here the descent of the steel.</span>
   <span id="f000574">I forced myself to ponder upon the sound of the crescent as it should pass across the garment – upon the peculiar thrilling sensation which the friction of cloth produces on the nerves.</span>
   <span id="f000575">I pondered upon all this frivolity until my teeth were on edge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">Down – steadily down it crept.</span>
   <span id="f000577">I took a frenzied pleasure in contrasting its downward with its lateral velocity.</span>
   <span id="f000578">To the right – to the left – far and wide – with the shriek of a damned spirit;</span>
   <span id="f000579">to my heart with the stealthy pace of the tiger!</span>
   <span id="f000580">I alternately laughed and howled as the one or the other idea grew predominant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">Down – certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000582">relentlessly down!</span>
   <span id="f000583">It vibrated within three inches of my bosom!</span>
   <span id="f000584">I struggled violently,</span>
   <span id="f000585">furiously,</span>
   <span id="f000586">to free my left arm.</span>
   <span id="f000587">This was free only from the elbow to the hand.</span>
   <span id="f000588">I could reach the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000589">from the platter beside me,</span>
   <span id="f000590">to my mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000591">with great effort,</span>
   <span id="f000592">but no farther.</span>
   <span id="f000593">Could I have broken the fastenings above the elbow,</span>
   <span id="f000594">I would have seized and attempted to arrest the pendulum.</span>
   <span id="f000595">I might as well have attempted to arrest an avalanche!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">Down – still unceasingly – still inevitably down!</span>
   <span id="f000597">I gasped and struggled at each vibration.</span>
   <span id="f000598">I shrunk convulsively at its every sweep.</span>
   <span id="f000599">My eyes followed its outward or upward whirls with the eagerness of the most unmeaning despair;</span>
   <span id="f000600">they closed themselves spasmodically at the descent,</span>
   <span id="f000601">although death would have been a relief,</span>
   <span id="f000602">oh!</span>
   <span id="f000603">how unspeakable!</span>
   <span id="f000604">Still I quivered in every nerve to think how slight a sinking of the machinery would precipitate that keen,</span>
   <span id="f000605">glistening axe upon my bosom.</span>
   <span id="f000606">It was hope that prompted the nerve to quiver – the frame to shrink.</span>
   <span id="f000607">It was hope – the hope that triumphs on the rack – that whispers to the death-condemned even in the dungeons of the Inquisition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000608">I saw that some ten or twelve vibrations would bring the steel in actual contact with my robe,</span>
   <span id="f000609">and with this observation there suddenly came over my spirit all the keen,</span>
   <span id="f000610">collected calmness of despair.</span>
   <span id="f000611">For the first time during many hours – or perhaps days – I thought.</span>
   <span id="f000612">It now occurred to me that the bandage,</span>
   <span id="f000613">or surcingle,</span>
   <span id="f000614">which enveloped me,</span>
   <span id="f000615">was unique.</span>
   <span id="f000616">I was tied by no separate cord.</span>
   <span id="f000617">The first stroke of the razorlike crescent athwart any portion of the band,</span>
   <span id="f000618">would so detach it that it might be unwound from my person by means of my left hand.</span>
   <span id="f000619">But how fearful,</span>
   <span id="f000620">in that case,</span>
   <span id="f000621">the proximity of the steel!</span>
   <span id="f000622">The result of the slightest struggle how deadly!</span>
   <span id="f000623">Was it likely,</span>
   <span id="f000624">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000625">that the minions of the torturer had not foreseen and provided for this possibility!</span>
   <span id="f000626">Was it probable that the bandage crossed my bosom in the track of the pendulum?</span>
   <span id="f000627">Dreading to find my faint,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and,</span>
   <span id="f000629">as it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000630">my last hope frustrated,</span>
   <span id="f000631">I so far elevated my head as to obtain a distinct view of my breast.</span>
   <span id="f000632">The surcingle enveloped my limbs and body close in all directions – save in the path of the destroying crescent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000633">Scarcely had I dropped my head back into its original position,</span>
   <span id="f000634">when there flashed upon my mind what I cannot better describe than as the unformed half of that idea of deliverance to which I have previously alluded,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and of which a moiety only floated indeterminately through my brain when I raised food to my burning lips.</span>
   <span id="f000636">The whole thought was now present – feeble,</span>
   <span id="f000637">scarcely sane,</span>
   <span id="f000638">scarcely definite,</span>
   <span id="f000639">– but still entire.</span>
   <span id="f000640">I proceeded at once,</span>
   <span id="f000641">with the nervous energy of despair,</span>
   <span id="f000642">to attempt its execution.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">For many hours the immediate vicinity of the low framework upon which I lay,</span>
   <span id="f000644">had been literally swarming with rats.</span>
   <span id="f000645">They were wild,</span>
   <span id="f000646">bold,</span>
   <span id="f000647">ravenous;</span>
   <span id="f000648">their red eyes glaring upon me as if they waited but for motionlessness on my part to make me their prey.</span>
   <span id="f000649">“To what food,” I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000650">“have they been accustomed in the well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">They had devoured,</span>
   <span id="f000652">in spite of all my efforts to prevent them,</span>
   <span id="f000653">all but a small remnant of the contents of the dish.</span>
   <span id="f000654">I had fallen into an habitual see-saw,</span>
   <span id="f000655">or wave of the hand about the platter:</span>
   <span id="f000656">and,</span>
   <span id="f000657">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000658">the unconscious uniformity of the movement deprived it of effect.</span>
   <span id="f000659">In their voracity the vermin frequently fastened their sharp fangs in my fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000660">With the particles of the oily and spicy viand which now remained,</span>
   <span id="f000661">I thoroughly rubbed the bandage wherever I could reach it;</span>
   <span id="f000662">then,</span>
   <span id="f000663">raising my hand from the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000664">I lay breathlessly still.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">At first the ravenous animals were startled and terrified at the change – at the cessation of movement.</span>
   <span id="f000666">They shrank alarmedly back;</span>
   <span id="f000667">many sought the well.</span>
   <span id="f000668">But this was only for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000669">I had not counted in vain upon their voracity.</span>
   <span id="f000670">Observing that I remained without motion,</span>
   <span id="f000671">one or two of the boldest leaped upon the frame-work,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and smelt at the surcingle.</span>
   <span id="f000673">This seemed the signal for a general rush.</span>
   <span id="f000674">Forth from the well they hurried in fresh troops.</span>
   <span id="f000675">They clung to the wood – they overran it,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and leaped in hundreds upon my person.</span>
   <span id="f000677">The measured movement of the pendulum disturbed them not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000678">Avoiding its strokes they busied themselves with the anointed bandage.</span>
   <span id="f000679">They pressed – they swarmed upon me in ever accumulating heaps.</span>
   <span id="f000680">They writhed upon my throat;</span>
   <span id="f000681">their cold lips sought my own;</span>
   <span id="f000682">I was half stifled by their thronging pressure;</span>
   <span id="f000683">disgust,</span>
   <span id="f000684">for which the world has no name,</span>
   <span id="f000685">swelled my bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and chilled,</span>
   <span id="f000687">with a heavy clamminess,</span>
   <span id="f000688">my heart.</span>
   <span id="f000689">Yet one minute,</span>
   <span id="f000690">and I felt that the struggle would be over.</span>
   <span id="f000691">Plainly I perceived the loosening of the bandage.</span>
   <span id="f000692">I knew that in more than one place it must be already severed.</span>
   <span id="f000693">With a more than human resolution I lay still.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">Nor had I erred in my calculations – nor had I endured in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000695">I at length felt that I was free.</span>
   <span id="f000696">The surcingle hung in ribands from my body.</span>
   <span id="f000697">But the stroke of the pendulum already pressed upon my bosom.</span>
   <span id="f000698">It had divided the serge of the robe.</span>
   <span id="f000699">It had cut through the linen beneath.</span>
   <span id="f000700">Twice again it swung,</span>
   <span id="f000701">and a sharp sense of pain shot through every nerve.</span>
   <span id="f000702">But the moment of escape had arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000703">At a wave of my hand my deliverers hurried tumultuously away.</span>
   <span id="f000704">With a steady movement – cautious,</span>
   <span id="f000705">sidelong,</span>
   <span id="f000706">shrinking,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and slow – I slid from the embrace of the bandage and beyond the reach of the scimitar.</span>
   <span id="f000708">For the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000709">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000710">I was free.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">Free!</span>
   <span id="f000712">– and in the grasp of the Inquisition!</span>
   <span id="f000713">I had scarcely stepped from my wooden bed of horror upon the stone floor of the prison,</span>
   <span id="f000714">when the motion of the hellish machine ceased and I beheld it drawn up,</span>
   <span id="f000715">by some invisible force,</span>
   <span id="f000716">through the ceiling.</span>
   <span id="f000717">This was a lesson which I took desperately to heart.</span>
   <span id="f000718">My every motion was undoubtedly watched.</span>
   <span id="f000719">Free!</span>
   <span id="f000720">– I had but escaped death in one form of agony,</span>
   <span id="f000721">to be delivered unto worse than death in some other.</span>
   <span id="f000722">With that thought I rolled my eves nervously around on the barriers of iron that hemmed me in.</span>
   <span id="f000723">Something unusual – some change which,</span>
   <span id="f000724">at first,</span>
   <span id="f000725">I could not appreciate distinctly – it was obvious,</span>
   <span id="f000726">had taken place in the apartment.</span>
   <span id="f000727">For many minutes of a dreamy and trembling abstraction,</span>
   <span id="f000728">I busied myself in vain,</span>
   <span id="f000729">unconnected conjecture.</span>
   <span id="f000730">During this period,</span>
   <span id="f000731">I became aware,</span>
   <span id="f000732">for the first time,</span>
   <span id="f000733">of the origin of the sulphurous light which illumined the cell.</span>
   <span id="f000734">It proceeded from a fissure,</span>
   <span id="f000735">about half an inch in width,</span>
   <span id="f000736">extending entirely around the prison at the base of the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000737">which thus appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and were,</span>
   <span id="f000739">completely separated from the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000740">I endeavored,</span>
   <span id="f000741">but of course in vain,</span>
   <span id="f000742">to look through the aperture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000743">As I arose from the attempt,</span>
   <span id="f000744">the mystery of the alteration in the chamber broke at once upon my understanding.</span>
   <span id="f000745">I have observed that,</span>
   <span id="f000746">although the outlines of the figures upon the walls were sufficiently distinct,</span>
   <span id="f000747">yet the colors seemed blurred and indefinite.</span>
   <span id="f000748">These colors had now assumed,</span>
   <span id="f000749">and were momentarily assuming,</span>
   <span id="f000750">a startling and most intense brilliancy,</span>
   <span id="f000751">that gave to the spectral and fiendish portraitures an aspect that might have thrilled even firmer nerves than my own.</span>
   <span id="f000752">Demon eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000753">of a wild and ghastly vivacity,</span>
   <span id="f000754">glared upon me in a thousand directions,</span>
   <span id="f000755">where none had been visible before,</span>
   <span id="f000756">and gleamed with the lurid lustre of a fire that I could not force my imagination to regard as unreal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">Unreal!</span>
   <span id="f000758">– Even while I breathed there came to my nostrils the breath of the vapour of heated iron!</span>
   <span id="f000759">A suffocating odour pervaded the prison!</span>
   <span id="f000760">A deeper glow settled each moment in the eyes that glared at my agonies!</span>
   <span id="f000761">A richer tint of crimson diffused itself over the pictured horrors of blood.</span>
   <span id="f000762">I panted!</span>
   <span id="f000763">I gasped for breath!</span>
   <span id="f000764">There could be no doubt of the design of my tormentors – oh!</span>
   <span id="f000765">most unrelenting!</span>
   <span id="f000766">oh!</span>
   <span id="f000767">most demoniac of men!</span>
   <span id="f000768">I shrank from the glowing metal to the centre of the cell.</span>
   <span id="f000769">Amid the thought of the fiery destruction that impended,</span>
   <span id="f000770">the idea of the coolness of the well came over my soul like balm.</span>
   <span id="f000771">I rushed to its deadly brink.</span>
   <span id="f000772">I threw my straining vision below.</span>
   <span id="f000773">The glare from the enkindled roof illumined its inmost recesses.</span>
   <span id="f000774">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000775">for a wild moment,</span>
   <span id="f000776">did my spirit refuse to comprehend the meaning of what I saw.</span>
   <span id="f000777">At length it forced – it wrestled its way into my soul – it burned itself in upon my shuddering reason.</span>
   <span id="f000778">– Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000779">for a voice to speak!</span>
   <span id="f000780">– oh!</span>
   <span id="f000781">horror!</span>
   <span id="f000782">– oh!</span>
   <span id="f000783">any horror but this!</span>
   <span id="f000784">With a shriek,</span>
   <span id="f000785">I rushed from the margin,</span>
   <span id="f000786">and buried my face in my hands – weeping bitterly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000787">The heat rapidly increased,</span>
   <span id="f000788">and once again I looked up,</span>
   <span id="f000789">shuddering as with a fit of the ague.</span>
   <span id="f000790">There had been a second change in the cell – and now the change was obviously in the form.</span>
   <span id="f000791">As before,</span>
   <span id="f000792">it was in vain that I,</span>
   <span id="f000793">at first,</span>
   <span id="f000794">endeavoured to appreciate or understand what was taking place.</span>
   <span id="f000795">But not long was I left in doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000796">The Inquisitorial vengeance had been hurried by my two-fold escape,</span>
   <span id="f000797">and there was to be no more dallying with the King of Terrors.</span>
   <span id="f000798">The room had been square.</span>
   <span id="f000799">I saw that two of its iron angles were now acute – two,</span>
   <span id="f000800">consequently,</span>
   <span id="f000801">obtuse.</span>
   <span id="f000802">The fearful difference quickly increased with a low rumbling or moaning sound.</span>
   <span id="f000803">In an instant the apartment had shifted its form into that of a lozenge.</span>
   <span id="f000804">But the alteration stopped not here-I neither hoped nor desired it to stop.</span>
   <span id="f000805">I could have clasped the red walls to my bosom as a garment of eternal peace.</span>
   <span id="f000806">“Death,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000807">“any death but that of the pit!” Fool!</span>
   <span id="f000808">might I have not known that into the pit it was the object of the burning iron to urge me?</span>
   <span id="f000809">Could I resist its glow?</span>
   <span id="f000810">or,</span>
   <span id="f000811">if even that,</span>
   <span id="f000812">could I withstand its pressure?</span>
   <span id="f000813">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000814">flatter and flatter grew the lozenge,</span>
   <span id="f000815">with a rapidity that left me no time for contemplation.</span>
   <span id="f000816">Its centre,</span>
   <span id="f000817">and of course,</span>
   <span id="f000818">its greatest width,</span>
   <span id="f000819">came just over the yawning gulf.</span>
   <span id="f000820">I shrank back – but the closing walls pressed me resistlessly onward.</span>
   <span id="f000821">At length for my seared and writhing body there was no longer an inch of foothold on the firm floor of the prison.</span>
   <span id="f000822">I struggled no more,</span>
   <span id="f000823">but the agony of my soul found vent in one loud,</span>
   <span id="f000824">long,</span>
   <span id="f000825">and final scream of despair.</span>
   <span id="f000826">I felt that I tottered upon the brink – I averted my eyes –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000827">There was a discordant hum of human voices!</span>
   <span id="f000828">There was a loud blast as of many trumpets!</span>
   <span id="f000829">There was a harsh grating as of a thousand thunders!</span>
   <span id="f000830">The fiery walls rushed back!</span>
   <span id="f000831">An outstretched arm caught my own as I fell,</span>
   <span id="f000832">fainting,</span>
   <span id="f000833">into the abyss.</span>
   <span id="f000834">It was that of General Lasalle.</span>
   <span id="f000835">The French army had entered Toledo.</span>
   <span id="f000836">The Inquisition was in the hands of its enemies.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

