<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />John Greenman</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Million Pound Bank Note</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Mark Twain</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">When I was twenty-seven years old,</span>
   <span id="f000008">I was a mining-broker’s clerk in San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and an expert in all the details of stock traffic.</span>
   <span id="f000010">I was alone in the world,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and had nothing to depend upon but my wits and a clean reputation;</span>
   <span id="f000012">but these were setting my feet in the road to eventual fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and I was content with the prospect.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">My time was my own after the afternoon board,</span>
   <span id="f000015">Saturdays,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and I was accustomed to put it in on a little sail-boat on the bay.</span>
   <span id="f000017">One day I ventured too far,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and was carried out to sea.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Just at nightfall,</span>
   <span id="f000020">when hope was about gone,</span>
   <span id="f000021">I was picked up by a small brig which was bound for London.</span>
   <span id="f000022">It was a long and stormy voyage,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and they made me work my passage without pay,</span>
   <span id="f000024">as a common sailor.</span>
   <span id="f000025">When I stepped ashore in London my clothes were ragged and shabby,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and I had only a dollar in my pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000027">This money fed and sheltered me twenty-four hours.</span>
   <span id="f000028">During the next twenty-four I went without food and shelter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">About ten o’clock on the following morning,</span>
   <span id="f000030">seedy and hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000031">I was dragging myself along Portland Place,</span>
   <span id="f000032">when a child that was passing,</span>
   <span id="f000033">towed by a nurse-maid,</span>
   <span id="f000034">tossed a luscious big pear - minus one bite - into the gutter.</span>
   <span id="f000035">I stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000036">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and fastened my desiring eye on that muddy treasure.</span>
   <span id="f000038">My mouth watered for it,</span>
   <span id="f000039">my stomach craved it,</span>
   <span id="f000040">my whole being begged for it.</span>
   <span id="f000041">But every time I made a move to get it some passing eye detected my purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and of course I straightened up then,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and looked indifferent,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and pretended that I hadn’t been thinking about the pear at all.</span>
   <span id="f000045">This same thing kept happening and happening,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and I couldn’t get the pear.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I was just getting desperate enough to brave all the shame,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and to seize it,</span>
   <span id="f000049">when a window behind me was raised,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and a gentleman spoke out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000051">saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“Step in here,</span>
   <span id="f000053">please.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">I was admitted by a gorgeous flunkey,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and shown into a sumptuous room where a couple of elderly gentlemen were sitting.</span>
   <span id="f000056">They sent away the servant,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and made me sit down.</span>
   <span id="f000058">They had just finished their breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and the sight of the remains of it almost overpowered me.</span>
   <span id="f000060">I could hardly keep my wits together in the presence of that food,</span>
   <span id="f000061">but as I was not asked to sample it,</span>
   <span id="f000062">I had to bear my trouble as best I could.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000064">something had been happening there a little before,</span>
   <span id="f000065">which I did not know anything about until a good many days afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000066">but I will tell you about it now.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Those two old brothers had been having a pretty hot argument a couple of days before,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and had ended by agreeing to decide it by a bet,</span>
   <span id="f000069">which is the English way of settling everything.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">You will remember that the Bank of England once issued two notes of a million pounds each,</span>
   <span id="f000071">to be used for a special purpose connected with some public transaction with a foreign country.</span>
   <span id="f000072">For some reason or other only one of these had been used and canceled;</span>
   <span id="f000073">the other still lay in the vaults of the Bank.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000075">the brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000076">chatting along,</span>
   <span id="f000077">happened to get to wondering what might be the fate of a perfectly honest and intelligent stranger who should be turned adrift in London without a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and with no money but that million-pound bank-note,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and no way to account for his being in possession of it.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Brother A said he would starve to death;</span>
   <span id="f000081">Brother B said he wouldn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Brother A said he couldn’t offer it at a bank or anywhere else,</span>
   <span id="f000083">because he would be arrested on the spot.</span>
   <span id="f000084">So they went on disputing till Brother B said he would bet twenty thousand pounds that the man would live thirty days,</span>
   <span id="f000085">anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000086">on that million,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and keep out of jail,</span>
   <span id="f000088">too.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Brother A took him up.</span>
   <span id="f000090">Brother B went down to the Bank and bought that note.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Just like an Englishman,</span>
   <span id="f000092">you see;</span>
   <span id="f000093">pluck to the backbone.</span>
   <span id="f000094">Then he dictated a letter,</span>
   <span id="f000095">which one of his clerks wrote out in a beautiful round hand,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and then the two brothers sat at the window a whole day watching for the right man to give it to.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">They saw many honest faces go by that were not intelligent enough;</span>
   <span id="f000098">many that were intelligent,</span>
   <span id="f000099">but not honest enough;</span>
   <span id="f000100">many that were both,</span>
   <span id="f000101">but the possessors were not poor enough,</span>
   <span id="f000102">or,</span>
   <span id="f000103">if poor enough,</span>
   <span id="f000104">were not strangers.</span>
   <span id="f000105">There was always a defect,</span>
   <span id="f000106">until I came along;</span>
   <span id="f000107">but they agreed that I filled the bill all around;</span>
   <span id="f000108">so they elected me unanimously,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and there I was now waiting to know why I was called in.</span>
   <span id="f000110">They began to ask me questions about myself,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and pretty soon they had my story.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Finally they told me I would answer their purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000113">I said I was sincerely glad,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and asked what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Then one of them handed me an envelope,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and said I would find the explanation inside.</span>
   <span id="f000117">I was going to open it,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but he said no;</span>
   <span id="f000119">take it to my lodgings,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and look it over carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and not be hasty or rash.</span>
   <span id="f000122">I was puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and wanted to discuss the matter a little further,</span>
   <span id="f000124">but they didn’t;</span>
   <span id="f000125">so I took my leave,</span>
   <span id="f000126">feeling hurt and insulted to be made the butt of what was apparently some kind of a practical joke,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and yet obliged to put up with it,</span>
   <span id="f000128">not being in circumstances to resent affronts from rich and strong folk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">I would have picked up the pear now and eaten it before all the world,</span>
   <span id="f000130">but it was gone;</span>
   <span id="f000131">so I had lost that by this unlucky business,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and the thought of it did not soften my feeling towards those men.</span>
   <span id="f000133">As soon as I was out of sight of that house I opened my envelope,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and saw that it contained money!</span>
   <span id="f000135">My opinion of those people changed,</span>
   <span id="f000136">I can tell you!</span>
   <span id="f000137">I lost not a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000138">but shoved note and money into my vest pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and broke for the nearest cheap eating house.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000141">how I did eat!</span>
   <span id="f000142">When at last I couldn’t hold any more,</span>
   <span id="f000143">I took out my money and unfolded it,</span>
   <span id="f000144">took one glimpse and nearly fainted.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Five millions of dollars!</span>
   <span id="f000146">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000147">it made my head swim.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">I must have sat there stunned and blinking at the note as much as a minute before I came rightly to myself again.</span>
   <span id="f000149">The first thing I noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000150">then,</span>
   <span id="f000151">was the landlord.</span>
   <span id="f000152">His eye was on the note,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and he was petrified.</span>
   <span id="f000154">He was worshiping,</span>
   <span id="f000155">with all his body and soul,</span>
   <span id="f000156">but he looked as if he couldn’t stir hand or foot.</span>
   <span id="f000157">I took my cue in a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and did the only rational thing there was to do.</span>
   <span id="f000159">I reached the note towards him,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000161">carelessly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Give me the change,</span>
   <span id="f000163">please.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">Then he was restored to his normal condition,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and made a thousand apologies for not being able to break the bill,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and I couldn’t get him to touch it.</span>
   <span id="f000167">He wanted to look at it,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and keep on looking at it;</span>
   <span id="f000169">he couldn’t seem to get enough of it to quench the thirst of his eye,</span>
   <span id="f000170">but he shrank from touching it as if it had been something too sacred for poor common clay to handle.</span>
   <span id="f000171">I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“I am sorry if it is an inconvenience,</span>
   <span id="f000173">but I must insist.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Please change it;</span>
   <span id="f000175">I haven’t anything else.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">But he said that wasn’t any matter;</span>
   <span id="f000177">he was quite willing to let the trifle stand over till another time.</span>
   <span id="f000178">I said I might not be in his neighborhood again for a good while;</span>
   <span id="f000179">but he said it was of no consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000180">he could wait,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and,</span>
   <span id="f000182">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000183">I could have anything I wanted,</span>
   <span id="f000184">any time I chose,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and let the account run as long as I pleased.</span>
   <span id="f000186">He said he hoped he wasn’t afraid to trust as rich a gentleman as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000187">merely because I was of a merry disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and chose to play larks on the public in the matter of dress.</span>
   <span id="f000189">By this time another customer was entering,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and the landlord hinted to me to put the monster out of sight;</span>
   <span id="f000191">then he bowed me all the way to the door,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and I started straight for that house and those brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000193">to correct the mistake which had been made before the police should hunt me up,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and help me do it.</span>
   <span id="f000195">I was pretty nervous;</span>
   <span id="f000196">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000197">pretty badly frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000198">though,</span>
   <span id="f000199">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000200">I was no way in fault;</span>
   <span id="f000201">but I knew men well enough to know that when they find they’ve given a tramp a million-pound bill when they thought it was a one-pounder,</span>
   <span id="f000202">they are in a frantic rage against him instead of quarreling with their own near-sightedness,</span>
   <span id="f000203">as they ought.</span>
   <span id="f000204">As I approached the house my excitement began to abate,</span>
   <span id="f000205">for all was quiet there,</span>
   <span id="f000206">which made me feel pretty sure the blunder was not discovered yet.</span>
   <span id="f000207">I rang.</span>
   <span id="f000208">The same servant appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I asked for those gentlemen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“They are gone.” This in the lofty,</span>
   <span id="f000211">cold way of that fellow’s tribe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Gone?</span>
   <span id="f000213">Gone where?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“On a journey.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“But whereabouts?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“To the Continent,</span>
   <span id="f000217">I think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“The Continent?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000220">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">“Which way - by what route?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“I can’t say,</span>
   <span id="f000223">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“When will they be back?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“In a month,</span>
   <span id="f000226">they said.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“A month!</span>
   <span id="f000228">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000229">this is awful!</span>
   <span id="f000230">Give me some sort of idea of how to get a word to them.</span>
   <span id="f000231">It’s of the last importance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“I can’t,</span>
   <span id="f000233">indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000234">I’ve no idea where they’ve gone,</span>
   <span id="f000235">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“Then I must see some member of the family.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“Family’s away,</span>
   <span id="f000238">too;</span>
   <span id="f000239">been abroad months - in Egypt and India,</span>
   <span id="f000240">I think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Man,</span>
   <span id="f000242">there’s been an immense mistake made.</span>
   <span id="f000243">They’ll be back before night.</span>
   <span id="f000244">Will you tell them I’ve been here,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and that I will keep coming till it’s all made right,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and they needn’t be afraid?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“I’ll tell them,</span>
   <span id="f000248">if they come back,</span>
   <span id="f000249">but I am not expecting them.</span>
   <span id="f000250">They said you would be here in an hour to make inquiries,</span>
   <span id="f000251">but I must tell you it’s all right,</span>
   <span id="f000252">they’ll be here on time and expect you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">So I had to give it up and go away.</span>
   <span id="f000254">What a riddle it all was!</span>
   <span id="f000255">I was like to lose my mind.</span>
   <span id="f000256">They would be here “on time.” What could that mean?</span>
   <span id="f000257">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000258">the letter would explain,</span>
   <span id="f000259">maybe.</span>
   <span id="f000260">I had forgotten the letter;</span>
   <span id="f000261">I got it out and read it.</span>
   <span id="f000262">This is what it said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“You are an intelligent and honest man,</span>
   <span id="f000264">as one may see by your face.</span>
   <span id="f000265">We conceive you to be poor and a stranger.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Enclosed you will find a sum of money.</span>
   <span id="f000267">It is lent to you for thirty days,</span>
   <span id="f000268">without interest.</span>
   <span id="f000269">Report at this house at the end of that time.</span>
   <span id="f000270">I have a bet on you.</span>
   <span id="f000271">If I win it you shall have any situation that is in my gift - any,</span>
   <span id="f000272">that is,</span>
   <span id="f000273">that you shall be able to prove yourself familiar with and competent to fill.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">No signature,</span>
   <span id="f000275">no address,</span>
   <span id="f000276">no date.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000278">here was a coil to be in!</span>
   <span id="f000279">You are posted on what had preceded all this,</span>
   <span id="f000280">but I was not.</span>
   <span id="f000281">It was just a deep,</span>
   <span id="f000282">dark puzzle to me.</span>
   <span id="f000283">I hadn’t the least idea what the game was,</span>
   <span id="f000284">nor whether harm was meant me or a kindness.</span>
   <span id="f000285">I went into a park,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and sat down to try to think it out,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and to consider what I had best do.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">At the end of an hour my reasonings had crystallized into this verdict.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">Maybe those men mean me well,</span>
   <span id="f000290">maybe they mean me ill;</span>
   <span id="f000291">no way to decide that - let it go.</span>
   <span id="f000292">They’ve got a game,</span>
   <span id="f000293">or a scheme,</span>
   <span id="f000294">or an experiment,</span>
   <span id="f000295">of some kind on hand;</span>
   <span id="f000296">no way to determine what it is - let it go.</span>
   <span id="f000297">There’s a bet on me;</span>
   <span id="f000298">no way to find out what it is - let it go.</span>
   <span id="f000299">That disposes of the indeterminable quantities;</span>
   <span id="f000300">the remainder of the matter is tangible,</span>
   <span id="f000301">solid,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and may be classed and labeled with certainty.</span>
   <span id="f000303">If I ask the Bank of England to place this bill to the credit of the man it belongs to,</span>
   <span id="f000304">they’ll do it,</span>
   <span id="f000305">for they know him,</span>
   <span id="f000306">although I don’t;</span>
   <span id="f000307">but they will ask me how I came in possession of it,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and if I tell the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000309">they’ll put me in the asylum,</span>
   <span id="f000310">naturally,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and a lie will land me in jail.</span>
   <span id="f000312">The same result would follow if I tried to bank the bill anywhere or to borrow money on it.</span>
   <span id="f000313">I have got to carry this immense burden around until those men come back,</span>
   <span id="f000314">whether I want to or not.</span>
   <span id="f000315">It is useless to me,</span>
   <span id="f000316">as useless as a handful of ashes,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and yet I must take care of it,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and watch over it,</span>
   <span id="f000319">while I beg my living.</span>
   <span id="f000320">I couldn’t give it away,</span>
   <span id="f000321">if I should try,</span>
   <span id="f000322">for neither honest citizen nor highwayman would accept it or meddle with it for anything.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Those brothers are safe.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Even if I lose their bill,</span>
   <span id="f000325">or burn it,</span>
   <span id="f000326">they are still safe,</span>
   <span id="f000327">because they can stop payment,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and the Bank will make them whole;</span>
   <span id="f000329">but meantime I’ve got to do a month’s suffering without wages or profit - unless I help win that bet,</span>
   <span id="f000330">whatever it may be,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and get that situation that I am promised.</span>
   <span id="f000332">I should like to get that;</span>
   <span id="f000333">men of their sort have situations in their gift that are worth having.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">I got to thinking a good deal about that situation.</span>
   <span id="f000335">My hopes began to rise high.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Without doubt the salary would be large.</span>
   <span id="f000337">It would begin in a month;</span>
   <span id="f000338">after that I should be all right.</span>
   <span id="f000339">Pretty soon I was feeling first-rate.</span>
   <span id="f000340">By this time I was tramping the streets again.</span>
   <span id="f000341">The sight of a tailor-shop gave me a sharp longing to shed my rags,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and to clothe myself decently once more.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Could I afford it?</span>
   <span id="f000344">No;</span>
   <span id="f000345">I had nothing in the world but a million pounds.</span>
   <span id="f000346">So I forced myself to go on by.</span>
   <span id="f000347">But soon I was drifting back again.</span>
   <span id="f000348">The temptation persecuted me cruelly.</span>
   <span id="f000349">I must have passed that shop back and forth six times during that manful struggle.</span>
   <span id="f000350">At last I gave in;</span>
   <span id="f000351">I had to.</span>
   <span id="f000352">I asked if they had a misfit suit that had been thrown on their hands.</span>
   <span id="f000353">The fellow I spoke to nodded his head towards another fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and gave me no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000355">I went to the indicated fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and he indicated another fellow with his head,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and no words.</span>
   <span id="f000358">I went to him,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“ ’Tend to you presently.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000361">I waited till he was done with what he was at,</span>
   <span id="f000362">then he took me into a back room,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and overhauled a pile of rejected suits,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and selected the rattiest one for me.</span>
   <span id="f000365">I put it on.</span>
   <span id="f000366">It didn’t fit,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and wasn’t in any way attractive,</span>
   <span id="f000368">but it was new,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and I was anxious to have it;</span>
   <span id="f000370">so I didn’t find any fault,</span>
   <span id="f000371">but said,</span>
   <span id="f000372">with some diffidence:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“It would be an accommodation to me if you could wait some days for the money.</span>
   <span id="f000374">I haven’t any small change about me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">The fellow worked up a most sarcastic expression of countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000378">you haven’t?</span>
   <span id="f000379">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000380">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000381">I didn’t expect it.</span>
   <span id="f000382">I’d only expect gentlemen like you to carry large change.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">I was nettled,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">“My friend,</span>
   <span id="f000386">you shouldn’t judge a stranger always by the clothes he wears.</span>
   <span id="f000387">I am quite able to pay for this suit;</span>
   <span id="f000388">I simply didn’t wish to put you to the trouble of changing a large note.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">He modified his style a little at that,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000391">though still with something of an air:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“I didn’t mean any particular harm,</span>
   <span id="f000393">but as long as rebukes are going,</span>
   <span id="f000394">I might say it wasn’t quite your affair to jump to the conclusion that we couldn’t change any note that you might happen to be carrying around.</span>
   <span id="f000395">On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000396">we can.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">I handed the note to him,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000400">very well;</span>
   <span id="f000401">I apologize.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">He received it with a smile,</span>
   <span id="f000403">one of those large smiles which goes all around over,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and has folds in it,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and wrinkles,</span>
   <span id="f000406">and spirals,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and looks like the place where you have thrown a brick in a pond;</span>
   <span id="f000408">and then in the act of his taking a glimpse of the bill this smile froze solid,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and turned yellow,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and looked like those wavy,</span>
   <span id="f000411">wormy spreads of lava which you find hardened on little levels on the side of Vesuvius.</span>
   <span id="f000412">I never before saw a smile caught like that,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and perpetuated.</span>
   <span id="f000414">The man stood there holding the bill,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and looking like that,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and the proprietor hustled up to see what was the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000418">briskly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000420">what’s up?</span>
   <span id="f000421">what’s the trouble?</span>
   <span id="f000422">what’s wanting?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">I said:</span>
   <span id="f000424">“There isn’t any trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000425">I’m waiting for my change.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000427">come;</span>
   <span id="f000428">get him his change,</span>
   <span id="f000429">Tod;</span>
   <span id="f000430">get him his change.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">Tod retorted:</span>
   <span id="f000432">“Get him his change!</span>
   <span id="f000433">It’s easy to say,</span>
   <span id="f000434">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000435">but look at the bill yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">The proprietor took a look,</span>
   <span id="f000437">gave a low,</span>
   <span id="f000438">eloquent whistle,</span>
   <span id="f000439">then made a dive for the pile of rejected clothing,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and began to snatch it this way and that,</span>
   <span id="f000441">talking all the time excitedly,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and as if to himself:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“Sell an eccentric millionaire such an unspeakable suit as that!</span>
   <span id="f000444">Tod’s a fool - a born fool.</span>
   <span id="f000445">Always doing something like this.</span>
   <span id="f000446">Drives every millionaire away from this place,</span>
   <span id="f000447">because he can’t tell a millionaire from a tramp,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and never could.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000450">here’s the thing I am after.</span>
   <span id="f000451">Please get those things off,</span>
   <span id="f000452">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and throw them in the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000454">Do me the favor to put on this shirt and this suit;</span>
   <span id="f000455">it’s just the thing,</span>
   <span id="f000456">the very thing - plain,</span>
   <span id="f000457">rich,</span>
   <span id="f000458">modest,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and just ducally nobby;</span>
   <span id="f000460">made to order for a foreign prince - you may know him,</span>
   <span id="f000461">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000462">his Serene Highness the Hospodar of Halifax;</span>
   <span id="f000463">had to leave it with us and take a mourning-suit because his mother was going to die - which she didn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000464">But that’s all right;</span>
   <span id="f000465">we can’t always have things the way we - that is,</span>
   <span id="f000466">the way they - there!</span>
   <span id="f000467">trousers all right,</span>
   <span id="f000468">they fit you to a charm,</span>
   <span id="f000469">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000470">now the waistcoat;</span>
   <span id="f000471">aha,</span>
   <span id="f000472">right again!</span>
   <span id="f000473">now the coat - Lord!</span>
   <span id="f000474">look at that,</span>
   <span id="f000475">now!</span>
   <span id="f000476">Perfect - the whole thing!</span>
   <span id="f000477">I never saw such a triumph in all my experience.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">I expressed my satisfaction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">“Quite right,</span>
   <span id="f000480">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000481">quite right;</span>
   <span id="f000482">it’ll do for a makeshift,</span>
   <span id="f000483">I’m bound to say.</span>
   <span id="f000484">But wait till you see what we’ll get up for you on your own measure.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000486">Tod,</span>
   <span id="f000487">book and pen;</span>
   <span id="f000488">get at it.</span>
   <span id="f000489">Length of leg,</span>
   <span id="f000490">32”" - and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000491">Before I could get in a word he had measured me,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and was giving orders for dress-suits,</span>
   <span id="f000493">morning suits,</span>
   <span id="f000494">shirts,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and all sorts of things.</span>
   <span id="f000496">When I got a chance I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000498">my dear sir,</span>
   <span id="f000499">I can’t give these orders,</span>
   <span id="f000500">unless you can wait indefinitely,</span>
   <span id="f000501">or change the bill.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">“Indefinitely!</span>
   <span id="f000503">It’s a weak word,</span>
   <span id="f000504">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000505">a weak word.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Eternally - that’s the word,</span>
   <span id="f000507">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000508">Tod,</span>
   <span id="f000509">rush these things through,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and send them to the gentleman’s address without any waste of time.</span>
   <span id="f000511">Let the minor customers wait.</span>
   <span id="f000512">Set down the gentleman’s address and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">“I’m changing my quarters.</span>
   <span id="f000514">I will drop in and leave the new address.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">“Quite right,</span>
   <span id="f000516">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000517">quite right.</span>
   <span id="f000518">One moment - let me show you out,</span>
   <span id="f000519">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000520">There - good day,</span>
   <span id="f000521">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000522">good day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000524">don’t you see what was bound to happen?</span>
   <span id="f000525">I drifted naturally into buying whatever I wanted,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and asking for change.</span>
   <span id="f000527">Within a week I was sumptuously equipped with all needful comforts and luxuries,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and was housed in an expensive private hotel in Hanover Square.</span>
   <span id="f000529">I took my dinners there,</span>
   <span id="f000530">but for breakfast I stuck by Harris’s humble feeding house,</span>
   <span id="f000531">where I had got my first meal on my million-pound bill.</span>
   <span id="f000532">I was the making of Harris.</span>
   <span id="f000533">The fact had gone all abroad that the foreign crank who carried million-pound bills in his vest pocket was the patron saint of the place.</span>
   <span id="f000534">That was enough.</span>
   <span id="f000535">From being a poor,</span>
   <span id="f000536">struggling,</span>
   <span id="f000537">little hand-to-mouth enterprise,</span>
   <span id="f000538">it had become celebrated,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and overcrowded with customers.</span>
   <span id="f000540">Harris was so grateful that he forced loans upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and would not be denied;</span>
   <span id="f000542">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000543">pauper as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000544">I had money to spend,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and was living like the rich and the great.</span>
   <span id="f000546">I judged that there was going to be a crash by and by,</span>
   <span id="f000547">but I was in now and must swim across or drown.</span>
   <span id="f000548">You see there was just that element of impending disaster to give a serious side,</span>
   <span id="f000549">a sober side,</span>
   <span id="f000550">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000551">a tragic side,</span>
   <span id="f000552">to a state of things which would otherwise have been purely ridiculous.</span>
   <span id="f000553">In the night,</span>
   <span id="f000554">in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000555">the tragedy part was always to the front,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and always warning,</span>
   <span id="f000557">always threatening;</span>
   <span id="f000558">and so I moaned and tossed,</span>
   <span id="f000559">and sleep was hard to find.</span>
   <span id="f000560">But in the cheerful daylight the tragedy element faded out and disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and I walked on air,</span>
   <span id="f000562">and was happy to giddiness,</span>
   <span id="f000563">to intoxication,</span>
   <span id="f000564">you may say.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">And it was natural;</span>
   <span id="f000566">for I had become one of the notorieties of the metropolis of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000567">and it turned my head,</span>
   <span id="f000568">not just a little,</span>
   <span id="f000569">but a good deal.</span>
   <span id="f000570">You could not take up a newspaper,</span>
   <span id="f000571">English,</span>
   <span id="f000572">Scotch,</span>
   <span id="f000573">or Irish,</span>
   <span id="f000574">without finding in it one or more references to the “vest-pocket million-pounder” and his latest doings and saying.</span>
   <span id="f000575">At first,</span>
   <span id="f000576">in these mentions,</span>
   <span id="f000577">I was at the bottom of the personal-gossip column;</span>
   <span id="f000578">next,</span>
   <span id="f000579">I was listed above the knights,</span>
   <span id="f000580">next above the baronets,</span>
   <span id="f000581">next above the barons,</span>
   <span id="f000582">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000584">climbing steadily,</span>
   <span id="f000585">as my notoriety augmented,</span>
   <span id="f000586">until I reached the highest altitude possible,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and there I remained,</span>
   <span id="f000588">taking precedence of all dukes not royal,</span>
   <span id="f000589">and of all ecclesiastics except the primate of all England.</span>
   <span id="f000590">But mind,</span>
   <span id="f000591">this was not fame;</span>
   <span id="f000592">as yet I had achieved only notoriety.</span>
   <span id="f000593">Then came the climaxing stroke - the accolade,</span>
   <span id="f000594">so to speak - which in a single instant transmuted the perishable dross of notoriety into the enduring gold of fame:</span>
   <span id="f000595">Punch caricatured me!</span>
   <span id="f000596">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000597">I was a made man now;</span>
   <span id="f000598">my place was established.</span>
   <span id="f000599">I might be joked about still,</span>
   <span id="f000600">but reverently,</span>
   <span id="f000601">not hilariously,</span>
   <span id="f000602">not rudely;</span>
   <span id="f000603">I could be smiled at,</span>
   <span id="f000604">but not laughed at.</span>
   <span id="f000605">The time for that had gone by.</span>
   <span id="f000606">Punch pictured me all a-flutter with rags,</span>
   <span id="f000607">dickering with a beef-eater for the Tower of London.</span>
   <span id="f000608">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000609">you can imagine how it was with a young fellow who had never been taken notice of before,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and now all of a sudden couldn’t say a thing that wasn’t taken up and repeated everywhere;</span>
   <span id="f000611">couldn’t stir abroad without constantly overhearing the remark flying from lip to lip,</span>
   <span id="f000612">“There he goes;</span>
   <span id="f000613">that’s him!” couldn’t take his breakfast without a crowd to look on;</span>
   <span id="f000614">couldn’t appear in an operabox without concentrating there the fire of a thousand lorgnettes.</span>
   <span id="f000615">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000616">I just swam in glory all day long- that is the amount of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">You know,</span>
   <span id="f000618">I even kept my old suit of rags,</span>
   <span id="f000619">and every now and then appeared in them,</span>
   <span id="f000620">so as to have the old pleasure of buying trifles,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and being insulted,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and then shooting the scoffer dead with the million-pound bill.</span>
   <span id="f000623">But I couldn’t keep that up.</span>
   <span id="f000624">The illustrated papers made the outfit so familiar that when I went out in it I was at once recognized and followed by a crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and if I attempted a purchase the man would offer me his whole shop on credit before I could pull my note on him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">About the tenth day of my fame I went to fulfil my duty to my flag by paying my respects to the American minister.</span>
   <span id="f000627">He received me with the enthusiasm proper in my case,</span>
   <span id="f000628">upbraided me for being so tardy in my duty,</span>
   <span id="f000629">and said that there was only one way to get his forgiveness,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and that was to take the seat at his dinner-party that night made vacant by the illness of one of his guests.</span>
   <span id="f000631">I said I would,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and we got to talking.</span>
   <span id="f000633">It turned out that he and my father had been schoolmates in boyhood,</span>
   <span id="f000634">Yale students together later,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and always warm friends up to my father’s death.</span>
   <span id="f000636">So then he required me to put in at his house all the odd time I might have to spare,</span>
   <span id="f000637">and I was very willing,</span>
   <span id="f000638">of course.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000640">I was more than willing;</span>
   <span id="f000641">I was glad.</span>
   <span id="f000642">When the crash should come,</span>
   <span id="f000643">he might somehow be able to save me from total destruction;</span>
   <span id="f000644">I didn’t know how,</span>
   <span id="f000645">but he might think of a way,</span>
   <span id="f000646">maybe.</span>
   <span id="f000647">I couldn’t venture to unbosom myself to him at this late date,</span>
   <span id="f000648">a thing which I would have been quick to do in the beginning of this awful career of mine in London.</span>
   <span id="f000649">No,</span>
   <span id="f000650">I couldn’t venture it now;</span>
   <span id="f000651">I was in too deep;</span>
   <span id="f000652">that is,</span>
   <span id="f000653">too deep for me to be risking revelations to so new a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000654">though not clear beyond my depth,</span>
   <span id="f000655">as I looked at it.</span>
   <span id="f000656">Because,</span>
   <span id="f000657">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000658">with all my borrowing,</span>
   <span id="f000659">I was carefully keeping within my means - I mean within my salary.</span>
   <span id="f000660">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000661">I couldn’t know what my salary was going to be,</span>
   <span id="f000662">but I had a good enough basis for an estimate in the fact,</span>
   <span id="f000663">that if I won the bet I was to have choice of any situation in that rich old gentleman’s gift provided I was competent - and I should certainly prove competent;</span>
   <span id="f000664">I hadn’t any doubt about that.</span>
   <span id="f000665">And as to the bet,</span>
   <span id="f000666">I wasn’t worrying about that;</span>
   <span id="f000667">I had always been lucky.</span>
   <span id="f000668">Now my estimate of the salary was six hundred to a thousand a year;</span>
   <span id="f000669">say,</span>
   <span id="f000670">six hundred for the first year,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and so on up year by year,</span>
   <span id="f000672">till I struck the upper figure by proved merit.</span>
   <span id="f000673">At present I was only in debt for my first year’s salary.</span>
   <span id="f000674">Everybody had been trying to lend me money,</span>
   <span id="f000675">but I had fought off the most of them on one pretext or another;</span>
   <span id="f000676">so this indebtedness represented only £300 borrowed money,</span>
   <span id="f000677">the other £300 represented my keep and my purchases.</span>
   <span id="f000678">I believed my second year’s salary would carry me through the rest of the month if I went on being cautious and economical,</span>
   <span id="f000679">and I intended to look sharply out for that.</span>
   <span id="f000680">My month ended,</span>
   <span id="f000681">my employer back from his journey,</span>
   <span id="f000682">I should be all right once more,</span>
   <span id="f000683">for I should at once divide the two years’ salary among my creditors by assignment,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and get right down to my work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">It was a lovely dinner-party of fourteen.</span>
   <span id="f000686">The Duke and Duchess of Shoreditch,</span>
   <span id="f000687">and their daughter the Lady Anne-Grace-Eleanor-Celeste-and-so-forth-and-so-forth-de-Bohun,</span>
   <span id="f000688">the Earl and Countess of Newgate,</span>
   <span id="f000689">Viscount Cheapside,</span>
   <span id="f000690">Lord and Lady Blatherskite,</span>
   <span id="f000691">some untitled people of both sexes,</span>
   <span id="f000692">the minister and his wife and daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000693">and his daughter’s visiting friend,</span>
   <span id="f000694">an English girl of twenty-two,</span>
   <span id="f000695">named Portia Langham,</span>
   <span id="f000696">whom I fell in love with in two minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and she with me - I could see it without glasses.</span>
   <span id="f000698">There was still another guest,</span>
   <span id="f000699">an American - but I am a little ahead of my story.</span>
   <span id="f000700">While the people were still in the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000701">whetting up for dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and coldly inspecting the late comers,</span>
   <span id="f000703">the servant announced:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000704">“Mr.&#160;Lloyd Hastings.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000705">The moment the usual civilities were over,</span>
   <span id="f000706">Hastings caught sight of me,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and came straight with cordially outstretched hand;</span>
   <span id="f000708">then stopped short when about to shake,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000710">with an embarrassed look:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“I beg your pardon,</span>
   <span id="f000712">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000713">I thought I knew you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000714">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000715">you do know me,</span>
   <span id="f000716">old fellow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000718">Are you the - the – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000719">“Vest-pocket monster?</span>
   <span id="f000720">I am,</span>
   <span id="f000721">indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000722">Don’t be afraid to call me by my nickname;</span>
   <span id="f000723">I’m used to it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000725">well,</span>
   <span id="f000726">well,</span>
   <span id="f000727">this is a surprise.</span>
   <span id="f000728">Once or twice I’ve seen your own name coupled with the nickname,</span>
   <span id="f000729">but it never occurred to me that you could be the Henry Adams referred to.</span>
   <span id="f000730">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000731">it isn’t six months since you were clerking away for Blake Hopkins in Frisco on a salary,</span>
   <span id="f000732">and sitting up nights on an extra allowance,</span>
   <span id="f000733">helping me arrange and verify the Gould and Curry Extension papers and statistics.</span>
   <span id="f000734">The idea of your being in London,</span>
   <span id="f000735">and a vast millionaire,</span>
   <span id="f000736">and a colossal celebrity!</span>
   <span id="f000737">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000738">it’s the Arabian Nights come again.</span>
   <span id="f000739">Man,</span>
   <span id="f000740">I can’t take it in at all;</span>
   <span id="f000741">can’t realize it;</span>
   <span id="f000742">give me time to settle the whirl in my head.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000743">“The fact is,</span>
   <span id="f000744">Lloyd,</span>
   <span id="f000745">you are no worse off than I am.</span>
   <span id="f000746">I can’t realize it myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000747">“Dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000748">it is stunning,</span>
   <span id="f000749">now isn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000750">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000751">it’s just three months today since we went to the Miners’ restaurant – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000753">the What Cheer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“Right,</span>
   <span id="f000755">it was the What Cheer;</span>
   <span id="f000756">went there at two in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and had a chop and coffee after a hard six-hours grind over those Extension papers,</span>
   <span id="f000758">and I tried to persuade you to come to London with me,</span>
   <span id="f000759">and offered to get leave of absence for you and pay all your expenses,</span>
   <span id="f000760">and give you something over if I succeeded in making the sale;</span>
   <span id="f000761">and you would not listen to me,</span>
   <span id="f000762">said I wouldn’t succeed,</span>
   <span id="f000763">and you couldn’t afford to lose the run of business and be no end of time getting the hang of things again when you got back home.</span>
   <span id="f000764">And yet here you are.</span>
   <span id="f000765">How odd it all is!</span>
   <span id="f000766">How did you happen to come,</span>
   <span id="f000767">and whatever did give you this incredible start?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000769">just an accident.</span>
   <span id="f000770">It’s a long story - a romance,</span>
   <span id="f000771">a body may say.</span>
   <span id="f000772">I’ll tell you all about it,</span>
   <span id="f000773">but not now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000774">“When?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">“The end of this month.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000776">“That’s more than a fortnight yet.</span>
   <span id="f000777">It’s too much of a strain on a person’s curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000778">Make it a week.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">“I can’t.</span>
   <span id="f000780">You’ll know why,</span>
   <span id="f000781">by and by.</span>
   <span id="f000782">But how’s the trade getting along?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000783">His cheerfulness vanished like a breath,</span>
   <span id="f000784">and he said with a sigh:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">“You were a true prophet,</span>
   <span id="f000786">Hal,</span>
   <span id="f000787">a true prophet.</span>
   <span id="f000788">I wish I hadn’t come.</span>
   <span id="f000789">I don’t want to talk about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000790">“But you must.</span>
   <span id="f000791">You must come and stop with me to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000792">when we leave here,</span>
   <span id="f000793">and tell me all about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000795">may I?</span>
   <span id="f000796">Are you in earnest?” and the water showed in his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000798">I want to hear the whole story,</span>
   <span id="f000799">every word.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000800">“I’m so grateful!</span>
   <span id="f000801">Just to find a human interest once more,</span>
   <span id="f000802">in some voice and in some eye,</span>
   <span id="f000803">in me and affairs of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000804">after what I’ve been through here - lord!</span>
   <span id="f000805">I could go down on my knees for it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">He gripped my hand hard,</span>
   <span id="f000807">and braced up,</span>
   <span id="f000808">and was all right and lively after that for the dinner - which didn’t come off.</span>
   <span id="f000809">No;</span>
   <span id="f000810">the usual thing happened,</span>
   <span id="f000811">the thing that is always happening under that vicious and aggravating English system - the matter of precedence couldn’t be settled,</span>
   <span id="f000812">and so there was no dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000813">Englishmen always eat dinner before they go out to dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000814">because they know the risks they are running;</span>
   <span id="f000815">but nobody ever warns the stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000816">and so he walks placidly into trap.</span>
   <span id="f000817">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000818">nobody was hurt this time,</span>
   <span id="f000819">because we had all been to dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000820">none of us being novices excepting Hastings,</span>
   <span id="f000821">and he having been informed by the minister at the time that he invited him that in deference to the English custom he had not provided any dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000822">Everybody took a lady and processioned down to the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000823">because it is usual to go through the motions;</span>
   <span id="f000824">but there the dispute began.</span>
   <span id="f000825">The Duke of Shoreditch wanted to take precedence,</span>
   <span id="f000826">and sit at the head of the table,</span>
   <span id="f000827">holding that he outranked a minister who represented merely a nation and not a monarch;</span>
   <span id="f000828">but I stood for my rights,</span>
   <span id="f000829">and refused to yield.</span>
   <span id="f000830">In the gossip column I ranked all dukes not royal,</span>
   <span id="f000831">and said so,</span>
   <span id="f000832">and claimed precedence of this one.</span>
   <span id="f000833">It couldn’t be settled,</span>
   <span id="f000834">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000835">struggle as we might and did,</span>
   <span id="f000836">he finally</span>
   <span id="f000837">(and injudiciously)</span>
   <span id="f000838">trying to play birth and antiquity,</span>
   <span id="f000839">and I “seeing” his Conqueror and “raising” him with Adam,</span>
   <span id="f000840">whose direct posterity I was,</span>
   <span id="f000841">as shown by my name,</span>
   <span id="f000842">while he was of a collateral branch,</span>
   <span id="f000843">as shown by his,</span>
   <span id="f000844">and by his recent Norman origin;</span>
   <span id="f000845">so we all processioned back to the drawing-room again and had a perpendicular lunch - plate of sardines and a strawberry,</span>
   <span id="f000846">and you group yourself and stand up and eat it.</span>
   <span id="f000847">Here the religion of precedence is not so strenuous;</span>
   <span id="f000848">the two persons of highest rank chuck up a shilling,</span>
   <span id="f000849">the one that wins has first go at his strawberry,</span>
   <span id="f000850">and the loser gets the shilling.</span>
   <span id="f000851">The next two chuck up,</span>
   <span id="f000852">then the next two,</span>
   <span id="f000853">and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000854">After refreshment,</span>
   <span id="f000855">tables were brought,</span>
   <span id="f000856">and we all played cribbage,</span>
   <span id="f000857">sixpence a game.</span>
   <span id="f000858">The English never play any game for amusement.</span>
   <span id="f000859">If they can’t make something or lose something - they don’t care which - they won’t play.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000860">We had a lovely time;</span>
   <span id="f000861">certainly two of us had,</span>
   <span id="f000862">Miss Langham and I.</span>
   <span id="f000863">I was so bewitched with her that I couldn’t count my hands if they went above a double sequence;</span>
   <span id="f000864">and when I struck home I never discovered it,</span>
   <span id="f000865">and started up the outside row again,</span>
   <span id="f000866">and would have lost the game every time,</span>
   <span id="f000867">only the girl did the same,</span>
   <span id="f000868">she being in just my condition,</span>
   <span id="f000869">you see;</span>
   <span id="f000870">and consequently neither of us ever got out,</span>
   <span id="f000871">or cared to wonder why we didn’t;</span>
   <span id="f000872">we only just knew we were happy,</span>
   <span id="f000873">and didn’t wish to know anything else,</span>
   <span id="f000874">and didn’t want to be interrupted.</span>
   <span id="f000875">And I told her - I did,</span>
   <span id="f000876">indeed - told her I loved her;</span>
   <span id="f000877">and she - well,</span>
   <span id="f000878">she blushed till her hair turned red,</span>
   <span id="f000879">but she liked it;</span>
   <span id="f000880">she said she did.</span>
   <span id="f000881">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000882">there was never such an evening!</span>
   <span id="f000883">Every time I pegged I put on a postscript;</span>
   <span id="f000884">every time she pegged she acknowledged receipt of it,</span>
   <span id="f000885">counting the hands the same.</span>
   <span id="f000886">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000887">I couldn’t even say “Two for his heels” without adding,</span>
   <span id="f000888">“My,</span>
   <span id="f000889">how sweet you do look!” and she would say,</span>
   <span id="f000890">“Fifteen two,</span>
   <span id="f000891">fifteen four,</span>
   <span id="f000892">fifteen six,</span>
   <span id="f000893">and a pair are eight,</span>
   <span id="f000894">and eight are sixteen - do you think so?” - peeping out aslant from under her lashes,</span>
   <span id="f000895">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000896">so sweet and cunning.</span>
   <span id="f000897">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000898">it was just too-too!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000899">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000900">I was perfectly honest and square with her;</span>
   <span id="f000901">told her I hadn’t a cent in the world but just the million-pound note she’d heard so much talk about,</span>
   <span id="f000902">and it didn’t belong to me,</span>
   <span id="f000903">and that started her curiosity;</span>
   <span id="f000904">and then I talked low,</span>
   <span id="f000905">and told her the whole history right from the start,</span>
   <span id="f000906">and it nearly killed her laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000907">What in the nation she could find to laugh about I couldn’t see,</span>
   <span id="f000908">but there it was;</span>
   <span id="f000909">every half-minute some new detail would fetch her,</span>
   <span id="f000910">and I would have to stop as much as a minute and a half to give her a chance to settle down again.</span>
   <span id="f000911">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000912">she laughed herself lame - she did,</span>
   <span id="f000913">indeed;</span>
   <span id="f000914">I never saw anything like it.</span>
   <span id="f000915">I mean I never saw a painful story - a story of a person’s troubles and worries and fears - produce just that kind of effect before.</span>
   <span id="f000916">So I loved her all the more,</span>
   <span id="f000917">seeing she could be so cheerful when there wasn’t anything to be cheerful about;</span>
   <span id="f000918">for I might soon need that kind of wife,</span>
   <span id="f000919">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000920">the way things looked.</span>
   <span id="f000921">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000922">I told her we should have to wait a couple of years,</span>
   <span id="f000923">till I could catch up on my salary;</span>
   <span id="f000924">but she didn’t mind that,</span>
   <span id="f000925">only she hoped I would be as careful as possible in the matter of expenses,</span>
   <span id="f000926">and not let them run the least risk of trenching on our third year’s pay.</span>
   <span id="f000927">Then she began to get a little worried,</span>
   <span id="f000928">and wondered if we were making any mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000929">and starting the salary on a higher figure for the first year than I would get.</span>
   <span id="f000930">This was good sense,</span>
   <span id="f000931">and it made me feel a little less confident than I had been feeling before;</span>
   <span id="f000932">but it gave me a good business idea,</span>
   <span id="f000933">and I brought it frankly out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">“Portia,</span>
   <span id="f000935">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000936">would you mind going with me that day,</span>
   <span id="f000937">when I confront those old gentlemen?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000938">She shrank a little,</span>
   <span id="f000939">but said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000940">“N-o;</span>
   <span id="f000941">if my being with you would help hearten you.</span>
   <span id="f000942">But - would it be quite proper,</span>
   <span id="f000943">do you think?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000944">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000945">I don’t know that it would - in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000946">I’m afraid it wouldn’t;</span>
   <span id="f000947">but,</span>
   <span id="f000948">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000949">there’s so much dependent upon it that – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">“Then I’ll go anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000951">proper or improper,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000952">with a beautiful and generous enthusiasm.</span>
   <span id="f000953">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000954">I shall be so happy to think I’m helping!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000955">“Helping,</span>
   <span id="f000956">dear?</span>
   <span id="f000957">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000958">you’ll be doing it all.</span>
   <span id="f000959">You’re so beautiful and so lovely and so winning,</span>
   <span id="f000960">that with you there I can pile our salary up till I break those good old fellows,</span>
   <span id="f000961">and they’ll never have the heart to struggle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000962">Sho!</span>
   <span id="f000963">you should have seen the rich blood mount,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and her happy eyes shine!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000965">“You wicked flatterer!</span>
   <span id="f000966">There isn’t a word of truth in what you say,</span>
   <span id="f000967">but still I’ll go with you.</span>
   <span id="f000968">Maybe it will teach you not to expect other people to look with your eyes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000969">Were my doubts dissipated?</span>
   <span id="f000970">Was my confidence restored?</span>
   <span id="f000971">You may judge by this fact:</span>
   <span id="f000972">privately I raised my salary to twelve hundred the first year on the spot.</span>
   <span id="f000973">But I didn’t tell her;</span>
   <span id="f000974">I saved it for a surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000975">All the way home I was in the clouds,</span>
   <span id="f000976">Hastings talking,</span>
   <span id="f000977">I not hearing a word.</span>
   <span id="f000978">When he and I entered my parlor,</span>
   <span id="f000979">he brought me to myself with his fervent appreciations of my manifold comforts and luxuries.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000980">“Let me just stand here a little and look my fill.</span>
   <span id="f000981">Dear me!</span>
   <span id="f000982">it’s a palace - it’s just a palace!</span>
   <span id="f000983">And in it everything a body could desire,</span>
   <span id="f000984">including cosy coal fire and supper standing ready.</span>
   <span id="f000985">Henry,</span>
   <span id="f000986">it doesn’t merely make me realize how rich you are;</span>
   <span id="f000987">it makes me realize,</span>
   <span id="f000988">to the bone,</span>
   <span id="f000989">to the marrow,</span>
   <span id="f000990">how poor I am - how poor I am,</span>
   <span id="f000991">and how miserable,</span>
   <span id="f000992">how defeated,</span>
   <span id="f000993">routed,</span>
   <span id="f000994">annihilated!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000995">Plague take it!</span>
   <span id="f000996">this language gave me the cold shudders.</span>
   <span id="f000997">It scared me broad awake,</span>
   <span id="f000998">and made me comprehend that I was standing on a halfinch crust,</span>
   <span id="f000999">with a crater underneath.</span>
   <span id="f001000">I didn’t know I had been dreaming - that is,</span>
   <span id="f001001">I hadn’t been allowing myself to know it for a while back;</span>
   <span id="f001002">but now - oh,</span>
   <span id="f001003">dear!</span>
   <span id="f001004">Deep in debt,</span>
   <span id="f001005">not a cent in the world,</span>
   <span id="f001006">a lovely girl’s happiness or woe in my hands,</span>
   <span id="f001007">and nothing in front of me but a salary which might never - oh,</span>
   <span id="f001008">would never - materialize!</span>
   <span id="f001009">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001010">oh,</span>
   <span id="f001011">oh!</span>
   <span id="f001012">I am ruined past hope!</span>
   <span id="f001013">nothing can save me!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001014">“Henry,</span>
   <span id="f001015">the mere unconsidered drippings of your daily income would – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001016">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001017">my daily income!</span>
   <span id="f001018">Here,</span>
   <span id="f001019">down with this hot Scotch,</span>
   <span id="f001020">and cheer up your soul.</span>
   <span id="f001021">Here’s with you!</span>
   <span id="f001022">Or,</span>
   <span id="f001023">no - you’re hungry;</span>
   <span id="f001024">sit down and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001025">“Not a bite for me;</span>
   <span id="f001026">I’m past it.</span>
   <span id="f001027">I can’t eat,</span>
   <span id="f001028">these days;</span>
   <span id="f001029">but I’ll drink with you till I drop.</span>
   <span id="f001030">Come!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001031">“Barrel for barrel,</span>
   <span id="f001032">I’m with you!</span>
   <span id="f001033">Ready?</span>
   <span id="f001034">Here we go!</span>
   <span id="f001035">Now,</span>
   <span id="f001036">then,</span>
   <span id="f001037">Lloyd,</span>
   <span id="f001038">unreel your story while I brew.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001039">“Unreel it?</span>
   <span id="f001040">What,</span>
   <span id="f001041">again?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001042">“Again?</span>
   <span id="f001043">What do you mean by that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001044">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f001045">I mean do you want to hear it over again?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001046">“Do I want to hear it over again?</span>
   <span id="f001047">This is a puzzler.</span>
   <span id="f001048">Wait;</span>
   <span id="f001049">don’t take any more of that liquid.</span>
   <span id="f001050">You don’t need it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001051">“Look here,</span>
   <span id="f001052">Henry,</span>
   <span id="f001053">you alarm me.</span>
   <span id="f001054">Didn’t I tell you the whole story on the way here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001055">“You?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001056">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001057">I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001058">“I’ll be hanged if I heard a word of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001059">“Henry,</span>
   <span id="f001060">this is a serious thing.</span>
   <span id="f001061">It troubles me.</span>
   <span id="f001062">What did you take up yonder at the minister’s?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001063">Then it all flashed on me,</span>
   <span id="f001064">and I owned up like a man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001065">“I took the dearest girl in this world - prisoner!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001066">So then he came with a rush,</span>
   <span id="f001067">and we shook,</span>
   <span id="f001068">and shook,</span>
   <span id="f001069">and shook till our hands ached;</span>
   <span id="f001070">and he didn’t blame me for not having heard a word of a story which had lasted while we walked three miles.</span>
   <span id="f001071">He just sat down then,</span>
   <span id="f001072">like the patient,</span>
   <span id="f001073">good fellow he was,</span>
   <span id="f001074">and told it all over again.</span>
   <span id="f001075">Synopsized,</span>
   <span id="f001076">it amounted to this:</span>
   <span id="f001077">He had come to England with what he thought was a grand opportunity;</span>
   <span id="f001078">he had an “option” to sell the Gould and Curry Extension for the “locators” of it,</span>
   <span id="f001079">and keep all he could get over a million dollars.</span>
   <span id="f001080">He had worked hard,</span>
   <span id="f001081">had pulled every wire he knew of,</span>
   <span id="f001082">had left no honest expedient untried,</span>
   <span id="f001083">had spent nearly all the money he had in the world,</span>
   <span id="f001084">had not been able to get a solitary capitalist to listen to him,</span>
   <span id="f001085">and his option would run out at the end of the month.</span>
   <span id="f001086">In a word,</span>
   <span id="f001087">he was ruined.</span>
   <span id="f001088">Then he jumped up and cried out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001089">“Henry,</span>
   <span id="f001090">you can save me!</span>
   <span id="f001091">You can save me,</span>
   <span id="f001092">and you’re the only man in the universe that can.</span>
   <span id="f001093">Will you do it?</span>
   <span id="f001094">Won’t you do it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001095">“Tell me how.</span>
   <span id="f001096">Speak out,</span>
   <span id="f001097">my boy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001098">“Give me a million and my passage home for my ’option’!</span>
   <span id="f001099">Don’t,</span>
   <span id="f001100">don’t refuse!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001101">I was in a kind of agony.</span>
   <span id="f001102">I was right on the point of coming out with the words,</span>
   <span id="f001103">“Lloyd,</span>
   <span id="f001104">I’m a pauper myself - absolutely penniless,</span>
   <span id="f001105">and in debt!” But a white-hot idea came flaming through my head,</span>
   <span id="f001106">and I gripped my jaws together,</span>
   <span id="f001107">and calmed myself down till I was as cold as a capitalist.</span>
   <span id="f001108">Then I said,</span>
   <span id="f001109">in a commercial and self-possessed way:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001110">“I will save you,</span>
   <span id="f001111">Lloyd – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001112">“Then I’m already saved!</span>
   <span id="f001113">God be merciful to you forever!</span>
   <span id="f001114">If ever I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001115">“Let me finish,</span>
   <span id="f001116">Lloyd.</span>
   <span id="f001117">I will save you,</span>
   <span id="f001118">but not in that way;</span>
   <span id="f001119">for that would not be fair to you,</span>
   <span id="f001120">after your hard work,</span>
   <span id="f001121">and the risks you’ve run.</span>
   <span id="f001122">I don’t need to buy mines;</span>
   <span id="f001123">I can keep my capital moving,</span>
   <span id="f001124">in a commercial center like London,</span>
   <span id="f001125">without that;</span>
   <span id="f001126">it’s what I’m at,</span>
   <span id="f001127">all the time;</span>
   <span id="f001128">but here is what I’ll do.</span>
   <span id="f001129">I know all about that mine,</span>
   <span id="f001130">of course;</span>
   <span id="f001131">I know its immense value,</span>
   <span id="f001132">and can swear to it if anybody wishes it.</span>
   <span id="f001133">You shall sell out inside of the fortnight for three millions cash,</span>
   <span id="f001134">using my name freely,</span>
   <span id="f001135">and we’ll divide,</span>
   <span id="f001136">share and share alike.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001137">Do you know,</span>
   <span id="f001138">he would have danced the furniture to kindling-wood in his insane joy,</span>
   <span id="f001139">and broken everything on the place,</span>
   <span id="f001140">if I hadn’t tripped him up and tied him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001141">Then he lay there,</span>
   <span id="f001142">perfectly happy,</span>
   <span id="f001143">saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001144">“I may use your name!</span>
   <span id="f001145">Your name - think of it!</span>
   <span id="f001146">Man,</span>
   <span id="f001147">they’ll flock in droves,</span>
   <span id="f001148">these rich Londoners;</span>
   <span id="f001149">they’ll fight for that stock!</span>
   <span id="f001150">I’m a made man,</span>
   <span id="f001151">I’m a made man forever,</span>
   <span id="f001152">and I’ll never forget you as long as I live!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001153">In less than twenty-four hours London was abuzz!</span>
   <span id="f001154">I hadn’t anything to do,</span>
   <span id="f001155">day after day,</span>
   <span id="f001156">but sit at home,</span>
   <span id="f001157">and say to all comers:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001158">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f001159">I told him to refer to me.</span>
   <span id="f001160">I know the man,</span>
   <span id="f001161">and I know the mine.</span>
   <span id="f001162">His character is above reproach,</span>
   <span id="f001163">and the mine is worth far more than he asks for it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001164">Meantime I spent all my evenings at the minister’s with Portia.</span>
   <span id="f001165">I didn’t say a word to her about the mine;</span>
   <span id="f001166">I saved it for a surprise.</span>
   <span id="f001167">We talked salary;</span>
   <span id="f001168">never anything but salary and love;</span>
   <span id="f001169">sometimes love,</span>
   <span id="f001170">sometimes salary,</span>
   <span id="f001171">sometimes love and salary together.</span>
   <span id="f001172">And my!</span>
   <span id="f001173">the interest the minister’s wife and daughter took in our little affair,</span>
   <span id="f001174">and the endless ingenuities they invented to save us from interruption,</span>
   <span id="f001175">and to keep the minister in the dark and unsuspicious - well,</span>
   <span id="f001176">it was just lovely of them!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001177">When the month was up at last,</span>
   <span id="f001178">I had a million dollars to my credit in the London and County Bank,</span>
   <span id="f001179">and Hastings was fixed in the same way.</span>
   <span id="f001180">Dressed at my level best,</span>
   <span id="f001181">I drove by the house in Portland Place,</span>
   <span id="f001182">judged by the look of things that my birds were home again,</span>
   <span id="f001183">went on towards the minister’s and got my precious,</span>
   <span id="f001184">and we started back,</span>
   <span id="f001185">talking salary with all our might.</span>
   <span id="f001186">She was so excited and anxious that it made her just intolerably beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f001187">I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001188">“Dearie,</span>
   <span id="f001189">the way you’re looking it’s a crime to strike for a salary a single penny under three thousand a year.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001190">“Henry,</span>
   <span id="f001191">Henry,</span>
   <span id="f001192">you’ll ruin us!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001193">“Don’t you be afraid.</span>
   <span id="f001194">Just keep up those looks,</span>
   <span id="f001195">and trust to me.</span>
   <span id="f001196">It’ll all come out right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001197">So,</span>
   <span id="f001198">as it turned out,</span>
   <span id="f001199">I had to keep bolstering up her courage all the way.</span>
   <span id="f001200">She kept pleading with me,</span>
   <span id="f001201">and saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001202">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001203">please remember that if we ask for too much we may get no salary at all;</span>
   <span id="f001204">and then what will become of us,</span>
   <span id="f001205">with no way in the world to earn our living?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001206">We were ushered in by that same servant,</span>
   <span id="f001207">and there they were,</span>
   <span id="f001208">the two old gentlemen.</span>
   <span id="f001209">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f001210">they were surprised to see that wonderful creature with me,</span>
   <span id="f001211">but I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001212">“It’s all right,</span>
   <span id="f001213">gentlemen;</span>
   <span id="f001214">she is my future stay and helpmate.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001215">And I introduced them to her,</span>
   <span id="f001216">and called them by name.</span>
   <span id="f001217">It didn’t surprise them;</span>
   <span id="f001218">they knew I would know enough to consult the directory.</span>
   <span id="f001219">They seated us,</span>
   <span id="f001220">and were very polite to me,</span>
   <span id="f001221">and very solicitous to relieve her from embarrassment,</span>
   <span id="f001222">and put her as much at her ease as they could.</span>
   <span id="f001223">Then I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001224">“Gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f001225">I am ready to report.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001226">“We are glad to hear it,” said my man,</span>
   <span id="f001227">“for now we can decide the bet which my brother Abel and I made.</span>
   <span id="f001228">If you have won for me,</span>
   <span id="f001229">you shall have any situation in my gift.</span>
   <span id="f001230">Have you the million-pound note?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001231">“Here it is,</span>
   <span id="f001232">sir,” and I handed it to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001233">“I’ve won!” he shouted,</span>
   <span id="f001234">and slapped Abel on the back.</span>
   <span id="f001235">“Now what do you say,</span>
   <span id="f001236">brother?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001237">“I say he did survive,</span>
   <span id="f001238">and I’ve lost twenty thousand pounds.</span>
   <span id="f001239">I never would have believed it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001240">“I’ve a further report to make,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f001241">“and a pretty long one.</span>
   <span id="f001242">I want you to let me come soon,</span>
   <span id="f001243">and detail my whole month’s history;</span>
   <span id="f001244">and I promise you it’s worth hearing.</span>
   <span id="f001245">Meantime,</span>
   <span id="f001246">take a look at that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001247">“What,</span>
   <span id="f001248">man!</span>
   <span id="f001249">Certificate of deposit for £200,000.</span>
   <span id="f001250">Is it yours?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001251">“Mine.</span>
   <span id="f001252">I earned it by thirty days’ judicious use of that little loan you let me have.</span>
   <span id="f001253">And the only use I made of it was to buy trifles and offer the bill in change.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001254">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f001255">this is astonishing!</span>
   <span id="f001256">It’s incredible,</span>
   <span id="f001257">man!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001258">“Never mind,</span>
   <span id="f001259">I’ll prove it.</span>
   <span id="f001260">Don’t take my word unsupported.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001261">But now Portia’s turn was come to be surprised.</span>
   <span id="f001262">Her eyes were spread wide,</span>
   <span id="f001263">and she said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001264">“Henry,</span>
   <span id="f001265">is that really your money?</span>
   <span id="f001266">Have you been fibbing to me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001267">“I have,</span>
   <span id="f001268">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f001269">dearie.</span>
   <span id="f001270">But you’ll forgive me,</span>
   <span id="f001271">I know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001272">She put up an arch pout,</span>
   <span id="f001273">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001274">“Don’t you be so sure.</span>
   <span id="f001275">You are a naughty thing to deceive me so!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001276">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001277">you’ll get over it,</span>
   <span id="f001278">sweetheart,</span>
   <span id="f001279">you’ll get over it;</span>
   <span id="f001280">it was only fun,</span>
   <span id="f001281">you know.</span>
   <span id="f001282">Come,</span>
   <span id="f001283">let’s be going.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001284">“But wait,</span>
   <span id="f001285">wait!</span>
   <span id="f001286">The situation,</span>
   <span id="f001287">you know.</span>
   <span id="f001288">I want to give you the situation,” said my man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001289">“Well,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f001290">“I’m just as grateful as I can be,</span>
   <span id="f001291">but really I don’t want one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001292">“But you can have the very choicest one in my gift.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001293">“Thanks again,</span>
   <span id="f001294">with all my heart;</span>
   <span id="f001295">but I don’t even want that one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001296">“Henry,</span>
   <span id="f001297">I’m ashamed of you.</span>
   <span id="f001298">You don’t half thank the good gentleman.</span>
   <span id="f001299">May I do it for you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001300">“Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f001301">you shall,</span>
   <span id="f001302">dear,</span>
   <span id="f001303">if you can improve it.</span>
   <span id="f001304">Let us see you try.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001305">She walked to my man,</span>
   <span id="f001306">got up in his lap,</span>
   <span id="f001307">put her arm round his neck,</span>
   <span id="f001308">and kissed him right on the mouth.</span>
   <span id="f001309">Then the two old gentlemen shouted with laughter,</span>
   <span id="f001310">but I was dumfounded,</span>
   <span id="f001311">just petrified,</span>
   <span id="f001312">as you may say.</span>
   <span id="f001313">Portia said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001314">“Papa,</span>
   <span id="f001315">he has said you haven’t a situation in your gift that he’d take;</span>
   <span id="f001316">and I feel just as hurt as – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001317">“My darling,</span>
   <span id="f001318">is that your papa?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001319">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f001320">he’s my step-papa,</span>
   <span id="f001321">and the dearest one that ever was.</span>
   <span id="f001322">You understand now,</span>
   <span id="f001323">don’t you,</span>
   <span id="f001324">why I was able to laugh when you told me at the minister’s,</span>
   <span id="f001325">not knowing my relationships,</span>
   <span id="f001326">what trouble and worry papa’s and Uncle Abel’s scheme was giving you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001327">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f001328">I spoke right up now,</span>
   <span id="f001329">without any fooling,</span>
   <span id="f001330">and went straight to the point.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001331">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001332">my dearest dear sir,</span>
   <span id="f001333">I want to take back what I said.</span>
   <span id="f001334">You have got a situation open that I want.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001335">“Name it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001336">“Son-in-law.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001337">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001338">well,</span>
   <span id="f001339">well!</span>
   <span id="f001340">But you know,</span>
   <span id="f001341">if you haven’t ever served in that capacity,</span>
   <span id="f001342">you,</span>
   <span id="f001343">of course,</span>
   <span id="f001344">can’t furnish recommendations of a sort to satisfy the conditions of the contract,</span>
   <span id="f001345">and so – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001346">“Try me - oh,</span>
   <span id="f001347">do,</span>
   <span id="f001348">I beg of you!</span>
   <span id="f001349">Only just try me thirty or forty years,</span>
   <span id="f001350">and if – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001351">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001352">well,</span>
   <span id="f001353">all right;</span>
   <span id="f001354">it’s but a little thing to ask,</span>
   <span id="f001355">take her along.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001356">Happy,</span>
   <span id="f001357">we two?</span>
   <span id="f001358">There are not words enough in the unabridged to describe it.</span>
   <span id="f001359">And when London got the whole history,</span>
   <span id="f001360">a day or two later,</span>
   <span id="f001361">of my month’s adventures with that bank-note,</span>
   <span id="f001362">and how they ended,</span>
   <span id="f001363">did London talk,</span>
   <span id="f001364">and have a good time?</span>
   <span id="f001365">Yes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001366">My Portia’s papa took that friendly and hospitable bill back to the Bank of England and cashed it;</span>
   <span id="f001367">then the Bank canceled it and made him a present of it,</span>
   <span id="f001368">and he gave it to us at our wedding,</span>
   <span id="f001369">and it has always hung in its frame in the sacredest place in our home ever since.</span>
   <span id="f001370">For it gave me my Portia.</span>
   <span id="f001371">But for it I could not have remained in London,</span>
   <span id="f001372">would not have appeared at the minister’s,</span>
   <span id="f001373">never should have met her.</span>
   <span id="f001374">And so I always say,</span>
   <span id="f001375">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001376">it’s a million-pounder,</span>
   <span id="f001377">as you see;</span>
   <span id="f001378">but it never made but one purchase in its life,</span>
   <span id="f001379">and then got the article for only about a tenth part of its value.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

