<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure X<br />The Adventure of the Noble Bachelor</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">The Lord St.&#160;Simon marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and its curious termination,</span>
   <span id="f000010">have long ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Fresh scandals have eclipsed it,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this four-year-old drama.</span>
   <span id="f000013">As I have reason to believe,</span>
   <span id="f000014">however,</span>
   <span id="f000015">that the full facts have never been revealed to the general public,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and as my friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter up,</span>
   <span id="f000017">I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little sketch of this remarkable episode.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">It was a few weeks before my own marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000019">during the days when I was still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street,</span>
   <span id="f000020">that he came home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him.</span>
   <span id="f000021">I had remained indoors all day,</span>
   <span id="f000022">for the weather had taken a sudden turn to rain,</span>
   <span id="f000023">with high autumnal winds,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and the Jezail bullet which I had brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghan campaign throbbed with dull persistence.</span>
   <span id="f000025">With my body in one easy-chair and my legs upon another,</span>
   <span id="f000026">I had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers until at last,</span>
   <span id="f000027">saturated with the news of the day,</span>
   <span id="f000028">I tossed them all aside and lay listless,</span>
   <span id="f000029">watching the huge crest and monogram upon the envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend’s noble correspondent could be.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“Here is a very fashionable epistle,” I remarked as he entered.</span>
   <span id="f000031">“Your morning letters,</span>
   <span id="f000032">if I remember right,</span>
   <span id="f000033">were from a fish-monger and a tide-waiter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000035">my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000036">smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000037">“and the humbler are usually the more interesting.</span>
   <span id="f000038">This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000041">come,</span>
   <span id="f000042">it may prove to be something of interest,</span>
   <span id="f000043">after all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“Not social,</span>
   <span id="f000045">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000047">distinctly professional.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“And from a noble client?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">“One of the highest in England.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“My dear fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000051">I congratulate you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“I assure you,</span>
   <span id="f000053">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000054">without affectation,</span>
   <span id="f000055">that the status of my client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case.</span>
   <span id="f000056">It is just possible,</span>
   <span id="f000057">however,</span>
   <span id="f000058">that that also may not be wanting in this new investigation.</span>
   <span id="f000059">You have been reading the papers diligently of late,</span>
   <span id="f000060">have you not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">“It looks like it,” said I ruefully,</span>
   <span id="f000062">pointing to a huge bundle in the corner.</span>
   <span id="f000063">“I have had nothing else to do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“It is fortunate,</span>
   <span id="f000065">for you will perhaps be able to post me up.</span>
   <span id="f000066">I read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column.</span>
   <span id="f000067">The latter is always instructive.</span>
   <span id="f000068">But if you have followed recent events so closely you must have read about Lord St.&#160;Simon and his wedding?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000070">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000071">with the deepest interest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">That is well.</span>
   <span id="f000073">The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St.&#160;Simon.</span>
   <span id="f000074">I will read it to you,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and in return you must turn over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000076">This is what he says:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">’MY DEAR MR.</span>
   <span id="f000078">SHERLOCK HOLMES:</span>
   <span id="f000079">– Lord Backwater tells me that I may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion.</span>
   <span id="f000080">I have determined,</span>
   <span id="f000081">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000082">to call upon you and to consult you in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in connection with my wedding.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Mr.&#160;Lestrade,</span>
   <span id="f000084">of Scotland Yard,</span>
   <span id="f000085">is acting already in the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000086">but he assures me that he sees no objection to your co-operation,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and that he even thinks that it might be of some assistance.</span>
   <span id="f000088">I will call at four o’clock in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and,</span>
   <span id="f000090">should you have any other engagement at that time,</span>
   <span id="f000091">I hope that you will postpone it,</span>
   <span id="f000092">as this matter is of paramount importance.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Yours faithfully,</span>
   <span id="f000094">ST.</span>
   <span id="f000095">SIMON.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions,</span>
   <span id="f000097">written with a quill pen,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer side of his right little finger,” remarked Holmes as he folded up the epistle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“He says four o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000100">It is three now.</span>
   <span id="f000101">He will be here in an hour.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“Then I have just time,</span>
   <span id="f000103">with your assistance,</span>
   <span id="f000104">to get clear upon the subject.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order of time,</span>
   <span id="f000106">while I take a glance as to who our client is.” He picked a red-covered volume from a line of books of reference beside the mantelpiece.</span>
   <span id="f000107">“Here he is,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000108">sitting down and flattening it out upon his knee.</span>
   <span id="f000109">“’Lord Robert Walsingham de Vere St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000110">second son of the Duke of Balmoral.’ Hum!</span>
   <span id="f000111">’Arms:</span>
   <span id="f000112">Azure,</span>
   <span id="f000113">three caltrops in chief over a fess sable.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Born in 1846.’ He’s forty-one years of age,</span>
   <span id="f000115">which is mature for marriage.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Was Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration.</span>
   <span id="f000117">The Duke,</span>
   <span id="f000118">his father,</span>
   <span id="f000119">was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000120">They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and Tudor on the distaff side.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000123">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000124">there is nothing very instructive in all this.</span>
   <span id="f000125">I think that I must turn to you Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000126">for something more solid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“I have very little difficulty in finding what I want,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000128">“for the facts are quite recent,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and the matter struck me as remarkable.</span>
   <span id="f000130">I feared to refer them to you,</span>
   <span id="f000131">however,</span>
   <span id="f000132">as I knew that you had an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000134">you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square furniture van.</span>
   <span id="f000135">That is quite cleared up now – though,</span>
   <span id="f000136">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000137">it was obvious from the first.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Pray give me the results of your newspaper selections.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“Here is the first notice which I can find.</span>
   <span id="f000140">It is in the personal column of the Morning Post,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and dates,</span>
   <span id="f000142">as you see,</span>
   <span id="f000143">some weeks back:</span>
   <span id="f000144">’A marriage has been arranged,’ it says,</span>
   <span id="f000145">’and will,</span>
   <span id="f000146">if rumour is correct,</span>
   <span id="f000147">very shortly take place,</span>
   <span id="f000148">between Lord Robert St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000149">second son of the Duke of Balmoral,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and Miss Hatty Doran,</span>
   <span id="f000151">the only daughter of Aloysius Doran.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Esq.,</span>
   <span id="f000153">of San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f000154">Cal.,</span>
   <span id="f000155">U.S.A.’ That is all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“Terse and to the point,” remarked Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000157">stretching his long,</span>
   <span id="f000158">thin legs towards the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of the same week.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000161">here it is:</span>
   <span id="f000162">’There will soon be a call for protection in the marriage market,</span>
   <span id="f000163">for the present free-trade principle appears to tell heavily against our home product.</span>
   <span id="f000164">One by one the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic.</span>
   <span id="f000165">An important addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming invaders.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Lord St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000167">who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little god’s arrows,</span>
   <span id="f000168">has now definitely announced his approaching marriage with Miss Hatty Doran,</span>
   <span id="f000169">the fascinating daughter of a California millionaire.</span>
   <span id="f000170">Miss Doran,</span>
   <span id="f000171">whose graceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at the Westbury House festivities,</span>
   <span id="f000172">is an only child,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to considerably over the six figures,</span>
   <span id="f000174">with expectancies for the future.</span>
   <span id="f000175">As it is an open secret that the Duke of Balmoral has been compelled to sell his pictures within the last few years,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and as Lord St.&#160;Simon has no property of his own save the small estate of Birchmoor,</span>
   <span id="f000177">it is obvious that the Californian heiress is not the only gainer by an alliance which will enable her to make the easy and common transition from a Republican lady to a British peeress.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“Anything else?” asked Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000179">yawning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000181">yes;</span>
   <span id="f000182">plenty.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Then there is another note in the Morning Post to say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one,</span>
   <span id="f000184">that it would be at St.&#160;George’s,</span>
   <span id="f000185">Hanover Square,</span>
   <span id="f000186">that only half a dozen intimate friends would be invited,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and that the party would return to the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been taken by Mr.&#160;Aloysius Doran.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Two days later – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000189">on Wednesday last – there is a curt announcement that the wedding had taken place,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and that the honeymoon would be passed at Lord Backwater’s place,</span>
   <span id="f000191">near Petersfield.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Those are all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“Before the what?” asked Holmes with a start.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“The vanishing of the lady.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“When did she vanish,</span>
   <span id="f000196">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“At the wedding breakfast.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“Indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000199">This is more interesting than it promised to be;</span>
   <span id="f000200">quite dramatic,</span>
   <span id="f000201">in fact.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000203">it struck me as being a little out of the common.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“They often vanish before the ceremony,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and occasionally during the honeymoon;</span>
   <span id="f000206">but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt as this.</span>
   <span id="f000207">Pray let me have the details.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“I warn you that they are very incomplete.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“Perhaps we may make them less so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">Such as they are,</span>
   <span id="f000211">they are set forth in a single article of a morning paper of yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000212">which I will read to you.</span>
   <span id="f000213">It is headed,</span>
   <span id="f000214">’Singular Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding’:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">’The family of Lord Robert St.&#160;Simon has been thrown into the greatest consternation by the strange and painful episodes which have taken place in connection with his wedding.</span>
   <span id="f000216">The ceremony,</span>
   <span id="f000217">as shortly announced in the papers of yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000218">occurred on the previous morning;</span>
   <span id="f000219">but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the strange rumours which have been so persistently floating about.</span>
   <span id="f000220">In spite of the attempts of the friends to hush the matter up,</span>
   <span id="f000221">so much public attention has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be served by affecting to disregard what is a common subject for conversation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“’The ceremony,</span>
   <span id="f000223">which was performed at St.&#160;George’s,</span>
   <span id="f000224">Hanover Square,</span>
   <span id="f000225">was a very quiet one,</span>
   <span id="f000226">no one being present save the father of the bride,</span>
   <span id="f000227">Mr.&#160;Aloysius Doran,</span>
   <span id="f000228">the Duchess of Balmoral,</span>
   <span id="f000229">Lord Backwater,</span>
   <span id="f000230">Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St.&#160;Simon</span>
   <span id="f000231">(the younger brother and sister of the bridegroom),</span>
   <span id="f000232">and Lady Alicia Whittington.</span>
   <span id="f000233">The whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of Mr.&#160;Aloysius Doran,</span>
   <span id="f000234">at Lancaster Gate,</span>
   <span id="f000235">where breakfast had been prepared.</span>
   <span id="f000236">It appears that some little trouble was caused by a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000237">whose name has not been ascertained,</span>
   <span id="f000238">who endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party,</span>
   <span id="f000239">alleging that she had some claim upon Lord St.&#160;Simon.</span>
   <span id="f000240">It was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and the footman.</span>
   <span id="f000241">The bride,</span>
   <span id="f000242">who had fortunately entered the house before this unpleasant interruption,</span>
   <span id="f000243">had sat down to breakfast with the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000244">when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Her prolonged absence having caused some comment,</span>
   <span id="f000246">her father followed her,</span>
   <span id="f000247">but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000248">caught up an ulster and bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and hurried down to the passage.</span>
   <span id="f000250">One of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thus apparelled,</span>
   <span id="f000251">but had refused to credit that it was his mistress,</span>
   <span id="f000252">believing her to be with the company.</span>
   <span id="f000253">On ascertaining that his daughter had disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000254">Mr.&#160;Aloysius Doran,</span>
   <span id="f000255">in conjunction with the bridegroom,</span>
   <span id="f000256">instantly put themselves in communication with the police,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and very energetic inquiries are being made,</span>
   <span id="f000258">which will probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very singular business.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Up to a late hour last night,</span>
   <span id="f000260">however,</span>
   <span id="f000261">nothing had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady.</span>
   <span id="f000262">There are rumours of foul play in the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the woman who had caused the original disturbance,</span>
   <span id="f000264">in the belief that,</span>
   <span id="f000265">from jealousy or some other motive,</span>
   <span id="f000266">she may have been concerned in the strange disappearance of the bride.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“And is that all?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“Only one little item in another of the morning papers,</span>
   <span id="f000269">but it is a suggestive one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">“And it is – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“That Miss Flora Millar,</span>
   <span id="f000272">the lady who had caused the disturbance,</span>
   <span id="f000273">has actually been arrested.</span>
   <span id="f000274">It appears that she was formerly a danseuse at the Allegro,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and that she has known the bridegroom for some years.</span>
   <span id="f000276">There are no further particulars,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and the whole case is in your hands now – so far as it has been set forth in the public press.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be.</span>
   <span id="f000279">I would not have missed it for worlds.</span>
   <span id="f000280">But there is a ring at the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000281">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four,</span>
   <span id="f000283">I have no doubt that this will prove to be our noble client.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Do not dream of going,</span>
   <span id="f000285">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000286">for I very much prefer having a witness,</span>
   <span id="f000287">if only as a check to my own memory.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“Lord Robert St.&#160;Simon,” announced our page-boy,</span>
   <span id="f000289">throwing open the door.</span>
   <span id="f000290">A gentleman entered,</span>
   <span id="f000291">with a pleasant,</span>
   <span id="f000292">cultured face,</span>
   <span id="f000293">high-nosed and pale,</span>
   <span id="f000294">with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and with the steady,</span>
   <span id="f000296">well-opened eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed.</span>
   <span id="f000297">His manner was brisk,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and yet his general appearance gave an undue impression of age,</span>
   <span id="f000299">for he had a slight forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked.</span>
   <span id="f000300">His hair,</span>
   <span id="f000301">too,</span>
   <span id="f000302">as he swept off his very curly-brimmed hat,</span>
   <span id="f000303">was grizzled round the edges and thin upon the top.</span>
   <span id="f000304">As to his dress,</span>
   <span id="f000305">it was careful to the verge of foppishness,</span>
   <span id="f000306">with high collar,</span>
   <span id="f000307">black frock-coat,</span>
   <span id="f000308">white waistcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000309">yellow gloves,</span>
   <span id="f000310">patent-leather shoes,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and light-coloured gaiters.</span>
   <span id="f000312">He advanced slowly into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000313">turning his head from left to right,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden eyeglasses.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“Good-day,</span>
   <span id="f000316">Lord St.&#160;Simon,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000317">rising and bowing.</span>
   <span id="f000318">“Pray take the basket-chair.</span>
   <span id="f000319">This is my friend and colleague,</span>
   <span id="f000320">Dr.&#160;Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Draw up a little to the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and we will talk this matter over.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“A most painful matter to me,</span>
   <span id="f000324">as you can most readily imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000325">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000326">I have been cut to the quick.</span>
   <span id="f000327">I understand that you have already managed several delicate cases of this sort,</span>
   <span id="f000328">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000329">though I presume that they were hardly from the same class of society.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000331">I am descending.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“I beg pardon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“My last client of the sort was a king.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000335">really!</span>
   <span id="f000336">I had no idea.</span>
   <span id="f000337">And which king?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">“The King of Scandinavia.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“What!</span>
   <span id="f000340">Had he lost his wife?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">“You can understand,” said Holmes suavely,</span>
   <span id="f000342">“that I extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to you in yours.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">“Of course!</span>
   <span id="f000344">Very right!</span>
   <span id="f000345">very right!</span>
   <span id="f000346">I’m sure I beg pardon.</span>
   <span id="f000347">As to my own case,</span>
   <span id="f000348">I am ready to give you any information which may assist you in forming an opinion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000350">I have already learned all that is in the public prints,</span>
   <span id="f000351">nothing more.</span>
   <span id="f000352">I presume that I may take it as correct – this article,</span>
   <span id="f000353">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000354">as to the disappearance of the bride.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">Lord St.&#160;Simon glanced over it.</span>
   <span id="f000356">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000357">it is correct,</span>
   <span id="f000358">as far as it goes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer an opinion.</span>
   <span id="f000360">I think that I may arrive at my facts most directly by questioning you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000361">“Pray do so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">“When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">“In San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f000364">a year ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“You were travelling in the States?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">“Did you become engaged then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“No.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“But you were on a friendly footing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">“I was amused by her society,</span>
   <span id="f000371">and she could see that I was amused.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">“Her father is very rich?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“And how did he make his money?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">“In mining.</span>
   <span id="f000376">He had nothing a few years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000377">Then he struck gold,</span>
   <span id="f000378">invested it,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and came up by leaps and bounds.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000381">what is your own impression as to the young lady’s – your wife’s character?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000383">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000384">Mr.&#160;Holmes,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000385">“my wife was twenty before her father became a rich man.</span>
   <span id="f000386">During that time she ran free in a mining camp and wandered through woods or mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000387">so that her education has come from Nature rather than from the schoolmaster.</span>
   <span id="f000388">She is what we call in England a tomboy,</span>
   <span id="f000389">with a strong nature,</span>
   <span id="f000390">wild and free,</span>
   <span id="f000391">unfettered by any sort of traditions.</span>
   <span id="f000392">She is impetuous – volcanic,</span>
   <span id="f000393">I was about to say.</span>
   <span id="f000394">She is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her resolutions.</span>
   <span id="f000395">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000396">I would not have given her the name which I have the honour to bear” – he gave a little stately cough – “had not I thought her to be at bottom a noble woman.</span>
   <span id="f000397">I believe that she is capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">“Have you her photograph?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“I brought this with me.” He opened a locket and showed us the full face of a very lovely woman.</span>
   <span id="f000400">It was not a photograph but an ivory miniature,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and the artist had brought out the full effect of the lustrous black hair,</span>
   <span id="f000402">the large dark eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and the exquisite mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it.</span>
   <span id="f000405">Then he closed the locket and handed it back to Lord St.&#160;Simon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“The young lady came to London,</span>
   <span id="f000407">then,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and you renewed your acquaintance?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000410">her father brought her over for this last London season.</span>
   <span id="f000411">I met her several times,</span>
   <span id="f000412">became engaged to her,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and have now married her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“She brought,</span>
   <span id="f000415">I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000416">a considerable dowry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">“A fair dowry.</span>
   <span id="f000418">Not more than is usual in my family.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“And this,</span>
   <span id="f000420">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000421">remains to you,</span>
   <span id="f000422">since the marriage is a fait accompli?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“I really have made no inquiries on the subject.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“Very naturally not.</span>
   <span id="f000425">Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the wedding?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">“Was she in good spirits?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">“Never better.</span>
   <span id="f000429">She kept talking of what we should do in our future lives.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">“Indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000431">That is very interesting.</span>
   <span id="f000432">And on the morning of the wedding?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“She was as bright as possible – at least until after the ceremony.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">“And did you observe any change in her then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000436">to tell the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000437">I saw then the first signs that I had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp.</span>
   <span id="f000438">The incident however,</span>
   <span id="f000439">was too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">“Pray let us have it,</span>
   <span id="f000441">for all that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000443">it is childish.</span>
   <span id="f000444">She dropped her bouquet as we went towards the vestry.</span>
   <span id="f000445">She was passing the front pew at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and it fell over into the pew.</span>
   <span id="f000447">There was a moment’s delay,</span>
   <span id="f000448">but the gentleman in the pew handed it up to her again,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and it did not appear to be the worse for the fall.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Yet when I spoke to her of the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000451">she answered me abruptly;</span>
   <span id="f000452">and in the carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000453">on our way home,</span>
   <span id="f000454">she seemed absurdly agitated over this trifling cause.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">“Indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000456">You say that there was a gentleman in the pew.</span>
   <span id="f000457">Some of the general public were present,</span>
   <span id="f000458">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000460">yes.</span>
   <span id="f000461">It is impossible to exclude them when the church is open.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">“This gentleman was not one of your wife’s friends?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000464">no;</span>
   <span id="f000465">I call him a gentleman by courtesy,</span>
   <span id="f000466">but he was quite a common-looking person.</span>
   <span id="f000467">I hardly noticed his appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000468">But really I think that we are wandering rather far from the point.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“Lady St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000470">then,</span>
   <span id="f000471">returned from the wedding in a less cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it.</span>
   <span id="f000472">What did she do on re-entering her father’s house?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“I saw her in conversation with her maid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">“And who is her maid?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“Alice is her name.</span>
   <span id="f000476">She is an American and came from California with her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">“A confidential servant?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">“A little too much so.</span>
   <span id="f000479">It seemed to me that her mistress allowed her to take great liberties.</span>
   <span id="f000480">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000481">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000482">in America they look upon these things in a different way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">“How long did she speak to this Alice?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000485">a few minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000486">I had something else to think of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“You did not overhear what they said?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“Lady St.&#160;Simon said something about ’jumping a claim.’ She was accustomed to use slang of the kind.</span>
   <span id="f000489">I have no idea what she meant.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">“American slang is very expressive sometimes.</span>
   <span id="f000491">And what did your wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">“She walked into the breakfast-room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000493">“On your arm?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000494">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000495">alone.</span>
   <span id="f000496">She was very independent in little matters like that.</span>
   <span id="f000497">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000498">after we had sat down for ten minutes or so,</span>
   <span id="f000499">she rose hurriedly,</span>
   <span id="f000500">muttered some words of apology,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and left the room.</span>
   <span id="f000502">She never came back.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">“But this maid,</span>
   <span id="f000504">Alice,</span>
   <span id="f000505">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000506">deposes that she went to her room,</span>
   <span id="f000507">covered her bride’s dress with a long ulster,</span>
   <span id="f000508">put on a bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and went out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000510">“Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000511">And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park in company with Flora Millar,</span>
   <span id="f000512">a woman who is now in custody,</span>
   <span id="f000513">and who had already made a disturbance at Mr.&#160;Doran’s house that morning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000515">yes.</span>
   <span id="f000516">I should like a few particulars as to this young lady,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and your relations to her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">Lord St.&#160;Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows.</span>
   <span id="f000519">“We have been on a friendly footing for some years – I may say on a very friendly footing.</span>
   <span id="f000520">She used to be at the Allegro.</span>
   <span id="f000521">I have not treated her ungenerously,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and she had no just cause of complaint against me,</span>
   <span id="f000523">but you know what women are,</span>
   <span id="f000524">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000525">Flora was a dear little thing,</span>
   <span id="f000526">but exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me.</span>
   <span id="f000527">She wrote me dreadful letters when she heard that I was about to be married,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and,</span>
   <span id="f000529">to tell the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000530">the reason why I had the marriage celebrated so quietly was that I feared lest there might be a scandal in the church.</span>
   <span id="f000531">She came to Mr.&#160;Doran’s door just after we returned,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and she endeavoured to push her way in,</span>
   <span id="f000533">uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and even threatening her,</span>
   <span id="f000535">but I had foreseen the possibility of something of the sort,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and I had two police fellows there in private clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000537">who soon pushed her out again.</span>
   <span id="f000538">She was quiet when she saw that there was no good in making a row.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">“Did your wife hear all this?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000541">thank goodness,</span>
   <span id="f000542">she did not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">“And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000545">That is what Mr.&#160;Lestrade,</span>
   <span id="f000546">of Scotland Yard,</span>
   <span id="f000547">looks upon as so serious.</span>
   <span id="f000548">It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid some terrible trap for her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000550">it is a possible supposition.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">“You think so,</span>
   <span id="f000552">too?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">“I did not say a probable one.</span>
   <span id="f000554">But you do not yourself look upon this as likely?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“I do not think Flora would hurt a fly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">“Still,</span>
   <span id="f000557">jealousy is a strange transformer of characters.</span>
   <span id="f000558">Pray what is your own theory as to what took place?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000560">really,</span>
   <span id="f000561">I came to seek a theory,</span>
   <span id="f000562">not to propound one.</span>
   <span id="f000563">I have given you all the facts.</span>
   <span id="f000564">Since you ask me,</span>
   <span id="f000565">however,</span>
   <span id="f000566">I may say that it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair,</span>
   <span id="f000567">the consciousness that she had made so immense a social stride,</span>
   <span id="f000568">had the effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my wife.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000569">“In short,</span>
   <span id="f000570">that she had become suddenly deranged?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000571">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000572">really,</span>
   <span id="f000573">when I consider that she has turned her back – I will not say upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000574">but upon so much that many have aspired to without success – I can hardly explain it in any other fashion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000576">certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000577">smiling.</span>
   <span id="f000578">“And now,</span>
   <span id="f000579">Lord St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000580">I think that I have nearly all my data.</span>
   <span id="f000581">May I ask whether you were seated at the breakfast-table so that you could see out of the window?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">“We could see the other side of the road and the Park.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000584">Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer.</span>
   <span id="f000585">I shall communicate with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“Should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem,” said our client,</span>
   <span id="f000587">rising.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">“I have solved it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">“Eh?</span>
   <span id="f000590">What was that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">“I say that I have solved it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“Where,</span>
   <span id="f000593">then,</span>
   <span id="f000594">is my wife?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">“That is a detail which I shall speedily supply.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">Lord St.&#160;Simon shook his head.</span>
   <span id="f000597">“I am afraid that it will take wiser heads than yours or mine,” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and bowing in a stately,</span>
   <span id="f000599">old-fashioned manner he departed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">“It is very good of Lord St.&#160;Simon to honour my head by putting it on a level with his own,” said Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000601">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000602">“I think that I shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this cross-questioning.</span>
   <span id="f000603">I had formed my conclusions as to the case before our client came into the room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000604">“My dear Holmes!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">“I have notes of several similar cases,</span>
   <span id="f000606">though none,</span>
   <span id="f000607">as I remarked before,</span>
   <span id="f000608">which were quite as prompt.</span>
   <span id="f000609">My whole examination served to turn my conjecture into a certainty.</span>
   <span id="f000610">Circumstantial evidence is occasionally very convincing,</span>
   <span id="f000611">as when you find a trout in the milk,</span>
   <span id="f000612">to quote Thoreau’s example.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">“But I have heard all that you have heard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">“Without,</span>
   <span id="f000615">however,</span>
   <span id="f000616">the knowledge of pre-existing cases which serves me so well.</span>
   <span id="f000617">There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and something on very much the same lines at Munich the year after the Franco-Prussian War.</span>
   <span id="f000619">It is one of these cases – but,</span>
   <span id="f000620">hullo,</span>
   <span id="f000621">here is Lestrade!</span>
   <span id="f000622">Good-afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000623">Lestrade!</span>
   <span id="f000624">You will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and there are cigars in the box.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat,</span>
   <span id="f000627">which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000629">With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the cigar which had been offered to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">“What’s up,</span>
   <span id="f000631">then?” asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye.</span>
   <span id="f000632">“You look dissatisfied.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000633">“And I feel dissatisfied.</span>
   <span id="f000634">It is this infernal St.&#160;Simon marriage case.</span>
   <span id="f000635">I can make neither head nor tail of the business.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">“Really!</span>
   <span id="f000637">You surprise me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">“Who ever heard of such a mixed affair?</span>
   <span id="f000639">Every clue seems to slip through my fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000640">I have been at work upon it all day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">“And very wet it seems to have made you,” said Holmes laying his hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000642">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000643">I have been dragging the Serpentine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">“In heaven’s name,</span>
   <span id="f000645">what for?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“In search of the body of Lady St.&#160;Simon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">“Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“Why?</span>
   <span id="f000650">What do you mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">“Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion.</span>
   <span id="f000653">“I suppose you know all about it,” he snarled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000655">I have only just heard the facts,</span>
   <span id="f000656">but my mind is made up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000657">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000658">indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000659">Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000660">“I think it very unlikely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000661">“Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it?” He opened his bag as he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000662">and tumbled onto the floor a wedding-dress of watered silk,</span>
   <span id="f000663">a pair of white satin shoes and a bride’s wreath and veil,</span>
   <span id="f000664">all discoloured and soaked in water.</span>
   <span id="f000665">“There,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000666">putting a new wedding-ring upon the top of the pile.</span>
   <span id="f000667">“There is a little nut for you to crack,</span>
   <span id="f000668">Master Holmes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000670">indeed!” said my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000671">blowing blue rings into the air.</span>
   <span id="f000672">“You dragged them from the Serpentine?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000674">They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper.</span>
   <span id="f000675">They have been identified as her clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and it seemed to me that if the clothes were there the body would not be far off.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">“By the same brilliant reasoning,</span>
   <span id="f000678">every man’s body is to be found in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe.</span>
   <span id="f000679">And pray what did you hope to arrive at through this?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000680">“At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“I am afraid that you will find it difficult.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000682">“Are you,</span>
   <span id="f000683">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000684">now?” cried Lestrade with some bitterness.</span>
   <span id="f000685">“I am afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000686">Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000687">that you are not very practical with your deductions and your inferences.</span>
   <span id="f000688">You have made two blunders in as many minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000689">This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">“And how?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">“In the dress is a pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000692">In the pocket is a card-case.</span>
   <span id="f000693">In the card-case is a note.</span>
   <span id="f000694">And here is the very note.” He slapped it down upon the table in front of him.</span>
   <span id="f000695">“Listen to this:</span>
   <span id="f000696">’You will see me when all is ready.</span>
   <span id="f000697">Come at once.</span>
   <span id="f000698">F.H.M.’ Now my theory all along has been that Lady St.&#160;Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar,</span>
   <span id="f000699">and that she,</span>
   <span id="f000700">with confederates,</span>
   <span id="f000701">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000702">was responsible for her disappearance.</span>
   <span id="f000703">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000704">signed with her initials,</span>
   <span id="f000705">is the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within their reach.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000706">“Very good,</span>
   <span id="f000707">Lestrade,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000708">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000709">“You really are very fine indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000710">Let me see it.” He took up the paper in a listless way,</span>
   <span id="f000711">but his attention instantly became riveted,</span>
   <span id="f000712">and he gave a little cry of satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000713">“This is indeed important,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000714">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000715">you find it so?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">“Extremely so.</span>
   <span id="f000717">I congratulate you warmly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000718">Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look.</span>
   <span id="f000719">“Why,” he shrieked,</span>
   <span id="f000720">“you’re looking at the wrong side!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">“On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000722">this is the right side.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">“The right side?</span>
   <span id="f000724">You’re mad!</span>
   <span id="f000725">Here is the note written in pencil over here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000726">“And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel bill,</span>
   <span id="f000727">which interests me deeply.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">“There’s nothing in it.</span>
   <span id="f000729">I looked at it before,” said Lestrade.</span>
   <span id="f000730">“’Oct.</span>
   <span id="f000731">4th,</span>
   <span id="f000732">rooms 8s.,</span>
   <span id="f000733">breakfast 2s.</span>
   <span id="f000734">6d.,</span>
   <span id="f000735">cocktail 1s.,</span>
   <span id="f000736">lunch 2s.</span>
   <span id="f000737">6d.,</span>
   <span id="f000738">glass sherry,</span>
   <span id="f000739">8d.’ I see nothing in that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“Very likely not.</span>
   <span id="f000741">It is most important,</span>
   <span id="f000742">all the same.</span>
   <span id="f000743">As to the note,</span>
   <span id="f000744">it is important also,</span>
   <span id="f000745">or at least the initials are,</span>
   <span id="f000746">so I congratulate you again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000747">“I’ve wasted time enough,” said Lestrade,</span>
   <span id="f000748">rising.</span>
   <span id="f000749">“I believe in hard work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories.</span>
   <span id="f000750">Good-day,</span>
   <span id="f000751">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000752">and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter first.” He gathered up the garments,</span>
   <span id="f000753">thrust them into the bag,</span>
   <span id="f000754">and made for the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000755">“Just one hint to you,</span>
   <span id="f000756">Lestrade,” drawled Holmes before his rival vanished;</span>
   <span id="f000757">“I will tell you the true solution of the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000758">Lady St.&#160;Simon is a myth.</span>
   <span id="f000759">There is not,</span>
   <span id="f000760">and there never has been,</span>
   <span id="f000761">any such person.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">Lestrade looked sadly at my companion.</span>
   <span id="f000763">Then he turned to me,</span>
   <span id="f000764">tapped his forehead three times,</span>
   <span id="f000765">shook his head solemnly,</span>
   <span id="f000766">and hurried away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on his overcoat.</span>
   <span id="f000768">“There is something in what the fellow says about outdoor work,” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000769">“so I think,</span>
   <span id="f000770">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000771">that I must leave you to your papers for a little.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000772">It was after five o’clock when Sherlock Holmes left me,</span>
   <span id="f000773">but I had no time to be lonely,</span>
   <span id="f000774">for within an hour there arrived a confectioner’s man with a very large flat box.</span>
   <span id="f000775">This he unpacked with the help of a youth whom he had brought with him,</span>
   <span id="f000776">and presently,</span>
   <span id="f000777">to my very great astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f000778">a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laid out upon our humble lodging-house mahogany.</span>
   <span id="f000779">There were a couple of brace of cold woodcock,</span>
   <span id="f000780">a pheasant,</span>
   <span id="f000781">a pâté de foie gras pie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles.</span>
   <span id="f000782">Having laid out all these luxuries,</span>
   <span id="f000783">my two visitors vanished away,</span>
   <span id="f000784">like the genii of the Arabian Nights,</span>
   <span id="f000785">with no explanation save that the things had been paid for and were ordered to this address.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000786">Just before nine o’clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the room.</span>
   <span id="f000787">His features were gravely set,</span>
   <span id="f000788">but there was a light in his eye which made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000789">“They have laid the supper,</span>
   <span id="f000790">then,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000791">rubbing his hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">“You seem to expect company.</span>
   <span id="f000793">They have laid for five.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000795">I fancy we may have some company dropping in,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000796">“I am surprised that Lord St.&#160;Simon has not already arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000797">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000798">I fancy that I hear his step now upon the stairs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in,</span>
   <span id="f000800">dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000801">and with a very perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“My messenger reached you,</span>
   <span id="f000803">then?” asked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000805">and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure.</span>
   <span id="f000806">Have you good authority for what you say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000807">“The best possible.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">Lord St.&#160;Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">“What will the Duke say,” he murmured,</span>
   <span id="f000810">“when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">“It is the purest accident.</span>
   <span id="f000812">I cannot allow that there is any humiliation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000814">you look on these things from another standpoint.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">“I fail to see that anyone is to blame.</span>
   <span id="f000816">I can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise,</span>
   <span id="f000817">though her abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted.</span>
   <span id="f000818">Having no mother,</span>
   <span id="f000819">she had no one to advise her at such a crisis.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">“It was a slight,</span>
   <span id="f000821">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000822">a public slight,” said Lord St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000823">tapping his fingers upon the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000824">“You must make allowance for this poor girl,</span>
   <span id="f000825">placed in so unprecedented a position.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000826">“I will make no allowance.</span>
   <span id="f000827">I am very angry indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and I have been shamefully used.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">“I think that I heard a ring,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000830">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000831">there are steps on the landing.</span>
   <span id="f000832">If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000833">Lord St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000834">I have brought an advocate here who may be more successful.” He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman.</span>
   <span id="f000835">“Lord St.&#160;Simon,” said he “allow me to introduce you to Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Francis Hay Moulton.</span>
   <span id="f000836">The lady,</span>
   <span id="f000837">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000838">you have already met.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and stood very erect,</span>
   <span id="f000840">with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the breast of his frock-coat,</span>
   <span id="f000841">a picture of offended dignity.</span>
   <span id="f000842">The lady had taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him,</span>
   <span id="f000843">but he still refused to raise his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000844">It was as well for his resolution,</span>
   <span id="f000845">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000846">for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000847">“You’re angry,</span>
   <span id="f000848">Robert,” said she.</span>
   <span id="f000849">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000850">I guess you have every cause to be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000851">“Pray make no apology to me,” said Lord St.&#160;Simon bitterly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000853">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000854">I know that I have treated you real bad and that I should have spoken to you before I went;</span>
   <span id="f000855">but I was kind of rattled,</span>
   <span id="f000856">and from the time when I saw Frank here again I just didn’t know what I was doing or saying.</span>
   <span id="f000857">I only wonder I didn’t fall down and do a faint right there before the altar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000858">“Perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000859">Mrs.&#160;Moulton,</span>
   <span id="f000860">you would like my friend and me to leave the room while you explain this matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000861">“If I may give an opinion,” remarked the strange gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000862">“we’ve had just a little too much secrecy over this business already.</span>
   <span id="f000863">For my part,</span>
   <span id="f000864">I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights of it.” He was a small,</span>
   <span id="f000865">wiry,</span>
   <span id="f000866">sunburnt man,</span>
   <span id="f000867">clean-shaven,</span>
   <span id="f000868">with a sharp face and alert manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000869">“Then I’ll tell our story right away,” said the lady.</span>
   <span id="f000870">"Frank here and I met in ’84,</span>
   <span id="f000871">in McQuire’s camp,</span>
   <span id="f000872">near the Rockies,</span>
   <span id="f000873">where pa was working a claim.</span>
   <span id="f000874">We were engaged to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000875">Frank and I;</span>
   <span id="f000876">but then one day father struck a rich pocket and made a pile,</span>
   <span id="f000877">while poor Frank here had a claim that petered out and came to nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000878">The richer pa grew the poorer was Frank;</span>
   <span id="f000879">so at last pa wouldn’t hear of our engagement lasting any longer,</span>
   <span id="f000880">and he took me away to ’Frisco.</span>
   <span id="f000881">Frank wouldn’t throw up his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000882">though;</span>
   <span id="f000883">so he followed me there,</span>
   <span id="f000884">and he saw me without pa knowing anything about it.</span>
   <span id="f000885">It would only have made him mad to know,</span>
   <span id="f000886">so we just fixed it all up for ourselves.</span>
   <span id="f000887">Frank said that he would go and make his pile,</span>
   <span id="f000888">too,</span>
   <span id="f000889">and never come back to claim me until he had as much as pa.</span>
   <span id="f000890">So then I promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged myself not to marry anyone else while he lived.</span>
   <span id="f000891">’Why shouldn’t we be married right away,</span>
   <span id="f000892">then,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000893">’and then I will feel sure of you;</span>
   <span id="f000894">and I won’t claim to be your husband until I come back?’ Well,</span>
   <span id="f000895">we talked it over,</span>
   <span id="f000896">and he had fixed it all up so nicely,</span>
   <span id="f000897">with a clergyman all ready in waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000898">that we just did it right there;</span>
   <span id="f000899">and then Frank went off to seek his fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000900">and I went back to pa.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000901">The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana,</span>
   <span id="f000902">and then he went prospecting in Arizona,</span>
   <span id="f000903">and then I heard of him from New Mexico.</span>
   <span id="f000904">After that came a long newspaper story about how a miners’ camp had been attacked by Apache Indians,</span>
   <span id="f000905">and there was my Frank’s name among the killed.</span>
   <span id="f000906">I fainted dead away,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and I was very sick for months after.</span>
   <span id="f000908">Pa thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in ’Frisco.</span>
   <span id="f000909">Not a word of news came for a year and more,</span>
   <span id="f000910">so that I never doubted that Frank was really dead.</span>
   <span id="f000911">Then Lord St.&#160;Simon came to ’Frisco,</span>
   <span id="f000912">and we came to London,</span>
   <span id="f000913">and a marriage was arranged,</span>
   <span id="f000914">and pa was very pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000915">but I felt all the time that no man on this earth would ever take the place in my heart that had been given to my poor Frank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000916">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000917">if I had married Lord St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000918">of course I’d have done my duty by him.</span>
   <span id="f000919">We can’t command our love,</span>
   <span id="f000920">but we can our actions.</span>
   <span id="f000921">I went to the altar with him with the intention to make him just as good a wife as it was in me to be.</span>
   <span id="f000922">But you may imagine what I felt when,</span>
   <span id="f000923">just as I came to the altar rails,</span>
   <span id="f000924">I glanced back and saw Frank standing and looking at me out of the first pew.</span>
   <span id="f000925">I thought it was his ghost at first;</span>
   <span id="f000926">but when I looked again there he was still,</span>
   <span id="f000927">with a kind of question in his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000928">as if to ask me whether I were glad or sorry to see him.</span>
   <span id="f000929">I wonder I didn’t drop.</span>
   <span id="f000930">I know that everything was turning round,</span>
   <span id="f000931">and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee in my ear.</span>
   <span id="f000932">I didn’t know what to do.</span>
   <span id="f000933">Should I stop the service and make a scene in the church?</span>
   <span id="f000934">I glanced at him again,</span>
   <span id="f000935">and he seemed to know what I was thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000936">for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still.</span>
   <span id="f000937">Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper,</span>
   <span id="f000938">and I knew that he was writing me a note.</span>
   <span id="f000939">As I passed his pew on the way out I dropped my bouquet over to him,</span>
   <span id="f000940">and he slipped the note into my hand when he returned me the flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000941">It was only a line asking me to join him when he made the sign to me to do so.</span>
   <span id="f000942">Of course I never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now to him,</span>
   <span id="f000943">and I determined to do just whatever he might direct.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000944">“When I got back I told my maid,</span>
   <span id="f000945">who had known him in California,</span>
   <span id="f000946">and had always been his friend.</span>
   <span id="f000947">I ordered her to say nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000948">but to get a few things packed and my ulster ready.</span>
   <span id="f000949">I know I ought to have spoken to Lord St.&#160;Simon,</span>
   <span id="f000950">but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all those great people.</span>
   <span id="f000951">I just made up my mind to run away and explain afterwards.</span>
   <span id="f000952">I hadn’t been at the table ten minutes before I saw Frank out of the window at the other side of the road.</span>
   <span id="f000953">He beckoned to me and then began walking into the Park.</span>
   <span id="f000954">I slipped out,</span>
   <span id="f000955">put on my things,</span>
   <span id="f000956">and followed him.</span>
   <span id="f000957">Some woman came talking something or other about Lord St.&#160;Simon to me – seemed to me from the little I heard as if he had a little secret of his own before marriage also – but I managed to get away from her and soon overtook Frank.</span>
   <span id="f000958">We got into a cab together,</span>
   <span id="f000959">and away we drove to some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square,</span>
   <span id="f000960">and that was my true wedding after all those years of waiting.</span>
   <span id="f000961">Frank had been a prisoner among the Apaches,</span>
   <span id="f000962">had escaped,</span>
   <span id="f000963">came on to ’Frisco,</span>
   <span id="f000964">found that I had given him up for dead and had gone to England,</span>
   <span id="f000965">followed me there,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000967">“I saw it in a paper,” explained the American.</span>
   <span id="f000968">“It gave the name and the church but not where the lady lived.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000969">“Then we had a talk as to what we should do,</span>
   <span id="f000970">and Frank was all for openness,</span>
   <span id="f000971">but I was so ashamed of it all that I felt as if I should like to vanish away and never see any of them again – just sending a line to pa,</span>
   <span id="f000972">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000973">to show him that I was alive.</span>
   <span id="f000974">It was awful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that breakfast-table and waiting for me to come back.</span>
   <span id="f000975">So Frank took my wedding-clothes and things and made a bundle of them,</span>
   <span id="f000976">so that I should not be traced,</span>
   <span id="f000977">and dropped them away somewhere where no one could find them.</span>
   <span id="f000978">It is likely that we should have gone on to Paris to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000979">only that this good gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000980">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000981">came round to us this evening,</span>
   <span id="f000982">though how he found us is more than I can think,</span>
   <span id="f000983">and he showed us very clearly and kindly that I was wrong and that Frank was right,</span>
   <span id="f000984">and that we should be putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so secret.</span>
   <span id="f000985">Then he offered to give us a chance of talking to Lord St.&#160;Simon alone,</span>
   <span id="f000986">and so we came right away round to his rooms at once.</span>
   <span id="f000987">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000988">Robert,</span>
   <span id="f000989">you have heard it all,</span>
   <span id="f000990">and I am very sorry if I have given you pain,</span>
   <span id="f000991">and I hope that you do not think very meanly of me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000992">Lord St.&#160;Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000993">but had listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long narrative.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000994">“Excuse me,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000995">“but it is not my custom to discuss my most intimate personal affairs in this public manner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000996">“Then you won’t forgive me?</span>
   <span id="f000997">You won’t shake hands before I go?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000998">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000999">certainly,</span>
   <span id="f001000">if it would give you any pleasure.” He put out his hand and coldly grasped that which she extended to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001001">“I had hoped,” suggested Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001002">“that you would have joined us in a friendly supper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001003">“I think that there you ask a little too much,” responded his Lordship.</span>
   <span id="f001004">“I may be forced to acquiesce in these recent developments,</span>
   <span id="f001005">but I can hardly be expected to make merry over them.</span>
   <span id="f001006">I think that with your permission I will now wish you all a very good-night.” He included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001007">“Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your company,” said Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f001008">“It is always a joy to meet an American,</span>
   <span id="f001009">Mr.&#160;Moulton,</span>
   <span id="f001010">for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the blundering of a minister in far-gone years will not prevent our children from being some day citizens of the same world-wide country under a flag which shall be a quartering of the Union Jack with the Stars and Stripes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001011">“The case has been an interesting one,” remarked Holmes when our visitors had left us,</span>
   <span id="f001012">“because it serves to show very clearly how simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight seems to be almost inexplicable.</span>
   <span id="f001013">Nothing could be more natural than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady,</span>
   <span id="f001014">and nothing stranger than the result when viewed,</span>
   <span id="f001015">for instance,</span>
   <span id="f001016">by Mr.&#160;Lestrade of Scotland Yard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001017">“You were not yourself at fault at all,</span>
   <span id="f001018">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001019">“From the first,</span>
   <span id="f001020">two facts were very obvious to me,</span>
   <span id="f001021">the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony,</span>
   <span id="f001022">the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home.</span>
   <span id="f001023">Obviously something had occurred during the morning,</span>
   <span id="f001024">then,</span>
   <span id="f001025">to cause her to change her mind.</span>
   <span id="f001026">What could that something be?</span>
   <span id="f001027">She could not have spoken to anyone when she was out,</span>
   <span id="f001028">for she had been in the company of the bridegroom.</span>
   <span id="f001029">Had she seen someone,</span>
   <span id="f001030">then?</span>
   <span id="f001031">If she had,</span>
   <span id="f001032">it must be someone from America because she had spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely.</span>
   <span id="f001033">You see we have already arrived,</span>
   <span id="f001034">by a process of exclusion,</span>
   <span id="f001035">at the idea that she might have seen an American.</span>
   <span id="f001036">Then who could this American be,</span>
   <span id="f001037">and why should he possess so much influence over her?</span>
   <span id="f001038">It might be a lover;</span>
   <span id="f001039">it might be a husband.</span>
   <span id="f001040">Her young womanhood had,</span>
   <span id="f001041">I knew,</span>
   <span id="f001042">been spent in rough scenes and under strange conditions.</span>
   <span id="f001043">So far I had got before I ever heard Lord St.&#160;Simon’s narrative.</span>
   <span id="f001044">When he told us of a man in a pew,</span>
   <span id="f001045">of the change in the bride’s manner,</span>
   <span id="f001046">of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a bouquet,</span>
   <span id="f001047">of her resort to her confidential maid,</span>
   <span id="f001048">and of her very significant allusion to claim-jumping – which in miners’ parlance means taking possession of that which another person has a prior claim to – the whole situation became absolutely clear.</span>
   <span id="f001049">She had gone off with a man,</span>
   <span id="f001050">and the man was either a lover or was a previous husband – the chances being in favour of the latter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001051">“And how in the world did you find them?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001052">“It might have been difficult,</span>
   <span id="f001053">but friend Lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not himself know.</span>
   <span id="f001054">The initials were,</span>
   <span id="f001055">of course,</span>
   <span id="f001056">of the highest importance,</span>
   <span id="f001057">but more valuable still was it to know that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the most select London hotels.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001058">“How did you deduce the select?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001059">“By the select prices.</span>
   <span id="f001060">Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels.</span>
   <span id="f001061">There are not many in London which charge at that rate.</span>
   <span id="f001062">In the second one which I visited in Northumberland Avenue,</span>
   <span id="f001063">I learned by an inspection of the book that Francis H.</span>
   <span id="f001064">Moulton,</span>
   <span id="f001065">an American gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f001066">had left only the day before,</span>
   <span id="f001067">and on looking over the entries against him,</span>
   <span id="f001068">I came upon the very items which I had seen in the duplicate bill.</span>
   <span id="f001069">His letters were to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square;</span>
   <span id="f001070">so thither I travelled,</span>
   <span id="f001071">and being fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home,</span>
   <span id="f001072">I ventured to give them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be better in every way that they should make their position a little clearer both to the general public and to Lord St.&#160;Simon in particular.</span>
   <span id="f001073">I invited them to meet him here,</span>
   <span id="f001074">and,</span>
   <span id="f001075">as you see,</span>
   <span id="f001076">I made him keep the appointment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001077">“But with no very good result,” I remarked.</span>
   <span id="f001078">“His conduct was certainly not very gracious.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001079">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f001080">Watson,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001081">smiling,</span>
   <span id="f001082">“perhaps you would not be very gracious either,</span>
   <span id="f001083">if,</span>
   <span id="f001084">after all the trouble of wooing and wedding,</span>
   <span id="f001085">you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune.</span>
   <span id="f001086">I think that we may judge Lord St.&#160;Simon very mercifully and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position.</span>
   <span id="f001087">Draw your chair up and hand me my violin,</span>
   <span id="f001088">for the only problem we have still to solve is how to while away these bleak autumnal evenings.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

