<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Carolyn Frances</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Shoes and Stockings, A Collection of Short Stories</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Louisa M. Alcott</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Kitty’s Class Day</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000008">“A stitch in time saves nine.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000009">“O Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000010">Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000011">I’m really going!</span>
   <span id="f000012">Here’s the invitation – rough paper – Chapel – spreads – Lyceum Hall – everything splendid;</span>
   <span id="f000013">and Jack to take care of me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">As Kitty burst into the room and performed a rapturous <em>pas seul</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000015">waving the cards over her head,</span>
   <span id="f000016">sister Priscilla looked up from her work with a smile of satisfaction on her quiet face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“Who invites you,</span>
   <span id="f000018">dear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000020">Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000021">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000022">– dear old cousin Jack.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Nobody else ever thinks of me,</span>
   <span id="f000024">or cares whether I have a bit of pleasure now and then.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Isn’t he kind?</span>
   <span id="f000026">Mayn’t I go?</span>
   <span id="f000027">and,</span>
   <span id="f000028">O Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000029">what <em>shall</em> I wear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">Kitty paused suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000031">as if the last all-important question had a solemnizing effect upon both mind and body.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000033">your white muslin,</span>
   <span id="f000034">silk sacque,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and new hat,</span>
   <span id="f000036">of course,” began Pris with an air of surprise.</span>
   <span id="f000037">But Kitty broke in impetuously,</span>
   <span id="f000038">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“I’ll never wear that old muslin again;</span>
   <span id="f000040">it’s full of darns,</span>
   <span id="f000041">up to my knees,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and all out of fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000043">So is my sacque;</span>
   <span id="f000044">and as for my hat,</span>
   <span id="f000045">though it does well enough here,</span>
   <span id="f000046">it would be absurd for Class Day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“You don’t expect an entirely new suit for this occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000048">– do you?” asked Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000049">anxiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000051">I do,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and I’ll tell you how I mean to get it.</span>
   <span id="f000053">I’ve planned everything;</span>
   <span id="f000054">for,</span>
   <span id="f000055">though I hardly dreamed of going,</span>
   <span id="f000056">I amused myself by thinking how I could manage if I <em>did</em> get invited.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">“Let us hear.” And Pris took up her work with an air of resignation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“First,</span>
   <span id="f000059">my dress,” began Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000060">perching herself on the arm of the sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and entering into the subject with enthusiasm.</span>
   <span id="f000062">“I’ve got the ten dollars grandpa sent me,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and with eight of it I’m going to buy Lizzie King’s organdie muslin.</span>
   <span id="f000064">She got it in Paris;</span>
   <span id="f000065">but her aunt providentially – no,</span>
   <span id="f000066">unfortunately – died;</span>
   <span id="f000067">so she can’t wear it,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and wants to get rid of it.</span>
   <span id="f000069">She is bigger than I am,</span>
   <span id="f000070">you know;</span>
   <span id="f000071">so there is enough for a little mantle or sacque,</span>
   <span id="f000072">for it isn’t made up.</span>
   <span id="f000073">The skirt is cut off and gored,</span>
   <span id="f000074">with a splendid train – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“My dear,</span>
   <span id="f000076">you don’t mean you are going to wear one of those absurd,</span>
   <span id="f000077">new-fashioned dresses?” exclaimed Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000078">lifting hands and eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“I do!</span>
   <span id="f000080">Nothing would induce me to go to Class Day without a train.</span>
   <span id="f000081">It’s been the desire of my heart to have one,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and now I <em>will</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000083">if I never have another gown to my back!” returned Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000084">with immense decision.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">Pris shook her head,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000087">“Go on!” as if prepared for any extravagance after that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“We can make it ourselves,” continued Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000089">“and trim it with the same.</span>
   <span id="f000090">It’s white with blue stripes and daisies in the stripes;</span>
   <span id="f000091">the loveliest thing you ever saw,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and can’t be got here.</span>
   <span id="f000093">So simple,</span>
   <span id="f000094">yet distingué,</span>
   <span id="f000095">I know you’ll like it.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Next,</span>
   <span id="f000097">my bonnet,” – here the solemnity of Kitty’s face and manner was charming to behold.</span>
   <span id="f000098">“I shall make it out of one of my new illusion undersleeves.</span>
   <span id="f000099">I’ve never worn them;</span>
   <span id="f000100">and the puffed part will be a plenty for a little fly-away bonnet of the latest style.</span>
   <span id="f000101">I’ve got blue ribbons to tie it with,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and have only to look up some daisies for the inside.</span>
   <span id="f000103">With my extra two dollars I shall buy my gloves,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and pay my fares,</span>
   <span id="f000105">– and there I am,</span>
   <span id="f000106">all complete.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">She looked so happy,</span>
   <span id="f000108">so pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and full of girlish satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000110">that sister Pris couldn’t bear to disturb the little plan,</span>
   <span id="f000111">much as she disapproved of it.</span>
   <span id="f000112">They were poor,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and every penny had to be counted.</span>
   <span id="f000114">There were plenty of neighbors to gossip and criticise,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and plenty of friends to make disagreeable remarks on any unusual extravagance.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Pris saw things with the prudent eyes of thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000117">but Kitty with the romantic eyes of seventeen;</span>
   <span id="f000118">and the elder sister,</span>
   <span id="f000119">in the kindness of her heart,</span>
   <span id="f000120">had no wish to sadden life to those bright young eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000121">or deny the child a harmless pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000122">She sewed thoughtfully for a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000123">then looked up,</span>
   <span id="f000124">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000125">with the smile that always assured Kitty the day was won,</span>
   <span id="f000126">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“Get your things together,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and we will see what can be done.</span>
   <span id="f000129">But remember,</span>
   <span id="f000130">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000131">that it is both bad taste and bad economy for poor people to try to ape the rich.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">“You’re a perfect angel,</span>
   <span id="f000133">Pris;</span>
   <span id="f000134">so don’t moralize.</span>
   <span id="f000135">I’ll run and get the dress,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and we’ll begin at once,</span>
   <span id="f000137">for there is much to do,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and only two days to do it in.” And Kitty skipped away,</span>
   <span id="f000139">singing “Lauriger Horatius,” at the top of her voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">Priscilla soon found that the girl’s head was completely turned by the advice and example of certain fashionable young neighbors.</span>
   <span id="f000141">It was in vain for Pris to remonstrate and warn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“Just this once let me do as others do,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and thoroughly enjoy myself.” pleaded Kitty;</span>
   <span id="f000144">and Pris yielded,</span>
   <span id="f000145">saying to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000146">“She shall have her wish,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and if she learns a lesson,</span>
   <span id="f000148">neither time nor money will be lost.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">So they snipped and sewed,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and planned and pieced,</span>
   <span id="f000151">going through all the alternations of despair and triumph,</span>
   <span id="f000152">worry and satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000153">which women undergo when a new suit is under way.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Company kept coming,</span>
   <span id="f000155">for news of Kitty’s expedition had flown abroad,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and her young friends must just run in to hear about it,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and ask what she was going to wear;</span>
   <span id="f000158">while Kitty was so glad and proud to tell,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and show,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and enjoy her little triumph that many half hours were wasted,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and the second day found much still to do.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">The lovely muslin didn’t hold out,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and Kitty sacrificed the waist to the train,</span>
   <span id="f000164">for a train she must have or the whole thing would be an utter failure.</span>
   <span id="f000165">A little sacque was eked out,</span>
   <span id="f000166">however,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and when the frills were on,</span>
   <span id="f000168">it was “ravishing,” as Kitty said,</span>
   <span id="f000169">with a sigh of mingled delight and fatigue.</span>
   <span id="f000170">The gored skirt was a fearful job,</span>
   <span id="f000171">as any one who has ever plunged into the mysteries will testify;</span>
   <span id="f000172">and before the facing,</span>
   <span id="f000173">even experienced Pris quailed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">The bonnet also was a trial,</span>
   <span id="f000175">for when the lace was on,</span>
   <span id="f000176">it was discovered that the ribbons didn’t match the dress.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Here was a catastrophe!</span>
   <span id="f000178">Kitty frantically rummaged the house,</span>
   <span id="f000179">the shops,</span>
   <span id="f000180">the stores of her friends,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and rummaged in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000182">There was no time to send to the city,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and despair was about to fall on Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000184">when Pris rescued her by quietly making one of the small sacrifices which were easy to her because her life was spent for others.</span>
   <span id="f000185">Some one suggested a strip of blue illusion,</span>
   <span id="f000186">– and that could be got;</span>
   <span id="f000187">but,</span>
   <span id="f000188">alas!</span>
   <span id="f000189">Kitty had no money,</span>
   <span id="f000190">for the gloves were already bought.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Pris heard the lamentations,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and giving up fresh ribbons for herself,</span>
   <span id="f000193">pulled her sister out of a slough of despond with two yards of “heavenly tulle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“Now the daisies;</span>
   <span id="f000195">and oh,</span>
   <span id="f000196">dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000197">not one can I find in this poverty-stricken town,” sighed Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000198">prinking at the glass,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and fervently hoping that nothing would happen to her complexion over night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“I see plenty just like those on your dress,” answered Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000201">nodding toward the meadow full of young whiteweed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000203">you’re a treasure!</span>
   <span id="f000204">I’ll wear real ones;</span>
   <span id="f000205">they keep well,</span>
   <span id="f000206">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and are so common I can refresh my bonnet anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000208">It’s a splendid idea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">Away rushed Kitty to return with an apron full of American daisies.</span>
   <span id="f000210">A pretty cluster was soon fastened just over the left-hand frizzle of bright hair,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and the little bonnet was complete.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000213">Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000214">tell me how I look,” cried Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000215">as she swept into the room late that afternoon in full gala costume.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">It would have been impossible for the primmest,</span>
   <span id="f000217">the sourest,</span>
   <span id="f000218">or the most sensible creature in the world to say that it wasn’t a pretty sight.</span>
   <span id="f000219">The long train,</span>
   <span id="f000220">the big chignon,</span>
   <span id="f000221">the apology for a bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000222">were all ridiculous,</span>
   <span id="f000223">– no one could deny that,</span>
   <span id="f000224">– but youth,</span>
   <span id="f000225">beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and a happy heart made even those absurdities charming.</span>
   <span id="f000227">The erect young figure gave an air to the crisp folds of the delicate dress;</span>
   <span id="f000228">the bright eyes and fresh cheeks under the lace rosette made one forget its size;</span>
   <span id="f000229">and the rippling brown hair won admiration in spite of the ugly bunch which disfigured the girl’s head.</span>
   <span id="f000230">The little jacket set “divinely,” the new gloves were as immaculate as white kids could be,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and to crown all,</span>
   <span id="f000232">Lizzie King,</span>
   <span id="f000233">in a burst of generosity,</span>
   <span id="f000234">lent Kitty the blue and white Paris sunshade which she couldn’t use herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“Now I could die content;</span>
   <span id="f000236">I’m perfect in all respects,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and I know Jack won’t be ashamed of me.</span>
   <span id="f000238">I really owe it to him to look my best,</span>
   <span id="f000239">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and that’s why I’m so particular,” said Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000241">in an apologetic tone,</span>
   <span id="f000242">as she began to lay away her finery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“I hope you will enjoy every minute of the time,</span>
   <span id="f000244">deary.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Don’t forget to finish running up the facing;</span>
   <span id="f000246">I’ve basted it carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and would do it if my head didn’t ache so,</span>
   <span id="f000248">I really can’t hold it up any longer,” answered Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000249">who had worked like a disinterested bee,</span>
   <span id="f000250">while Kitty had flown about like a distracted butterfly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“Go and lie down,</span>
   <span id="f000252">you dear,</span>
   <span id="f000253">kind soul,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and don’t think of my nonsense again,” said Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000255">feeling remorseful,</span>
   <span id="f000256">till Pris was comfortably asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000257">when she went to her room and revelled in her finery till bedtime.</span>
   <span id="f000258">So absorbed was she in learning to manage her train gracefully,</span>
   <span id="f000259">that she forgot the facing till very late.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000261">being worn out with work and worry,</span>
   <span id="f000262">she did,</span>
   <span id="f000263">what girls are too apt to do,</span>
   <span id="f000264">stuck a pin here and there,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and,</span>
   <span id="f000266">trusting to Priscilla’s careful bastings,</span>
   <span id="f000267">left it as it was,</span>
   <span id="f000268">retiring to dream of a certain Horace Fletcher,</span>
   <span id="f000269">whose aristocratic elegance had made a deep impression upon her during the few evenings she had seen him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">Nothing could have been lovelier than the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and few hearts happier than Kitty’s,</span>
   <span id="f000272">as she arrayed herself with the utmost care,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and waited in solemn state for the carriage;</span>
   <span id="f000274">for muslin trains and dewy roads were incompatible,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and one luxury brought another.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">“My goodness,</span>
   <span id="f000277">where did she get that stylish suit?” whispered Miss Smith to Miss Jones,</span>
   <span id="f000278">as Kitty floated into the station with all sail set,</span>
   <span id="f000279">finding it impossible to resist the temptation to astonish certain young ladies who had snubbed her in times past,</span>
   <span id="f000280">which snubs had rankled,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and were now avenged.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“I looked everywhere for a muslin for to-day and couldn’t find any I liked,</span>
   <span id="f000283">so I was forced to wear my mauve silk,” observed Miss Smith,</span>
   <span id="f000284">complacently settling the silvery folds of her dress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">“It’s very pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000286">but one ruins a silk at Class Day,</span>
   <span id="f000287">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000288">I thought this organdie would be more comfortable and appropriate this warm day.</span>
   <span id="f000289">A friend brought it from Paris,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and it’s like one the Princess of Wales wore at the great flower-show this year,” returned Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000291">with the air of a young lady who had all her dresses from Paris,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and was intimately acquainted with the royal family.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“Those girls” were entirely extinguished by this stroke,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and hadn’t a word to say for themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000295">while Kitty casually mentioned Horace Fletcher,</span>
   <span id="f000296">Lyceum Hall,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and Cousin Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000298">for <em>they</em> had only a little Freshman brother to boast of,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and were <em>not</em> going to Lyceum Hall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">As she stepped out of the cars at Cambridge,</span>
   <span id="f000301">Jack opened his honest blue eyes and indulged in a low whistle of astonishment:</span>
   <span id="f000302">for if there was anything he especially hated,</span>
   <span id="f000303">it was the trains,</span>
   <span id="f000304">chignons and tiny bonnets then in fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000305">He was very fond of Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and prided himself on being able to show his friends a girl who was charming,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and yet not over-dressed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“She has made a regular guy of herself;</span>
   <span id="f000309">I won’t tell her so,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and the dear little soul shall have a jolly time in spite of her fuss and feathers.</span>
   <span id="f000311">But I do wish she had let her hair alone and worn that pretty hat of hers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">As this thought passed through Jack’s mind he smiled and bowed and made his way among the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000313">whispering as he drew his cousin’s arm through his own,</span>
   <span id="f000314">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000316">Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000317">you’re got up regardless of expense,</span>
   <span id="f000318">aren’t you?</span>
   <span id="f000319">I’m so glad you came,</span>
   <span id="f000320">we’ll have a rousing good time,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and you shall see all the fun.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000323">thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000324">Jack!</span>
   <span id="f000325">Do I look nice,</span>
   <span id="f000326">really?</span>
   <span id="f000327">I tried to be a credit to you and Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and I did have such a job of it.</span>
   <span id="f000329">I’ll make you laugh over it some time.</span>
   <span id="f000330">A carriage for me?</span>
   <span id="f000331">Bless us,</span>
   <span id="f000332">how fine we are!” and Kitty stepped in,</span>
   <span id="f000333">feeling that only one thing more was needed to make her cup overflow.</span>
   <span id="f000334">That one thing was speedily vouchsafed,</span>
   <span id="f000335">for before her skirts were smoothly settled,</span>
   <span id="f000336">Jack called out,</span>
   <span id="f000337">in his hearty way,</span>
   <span id="f000338">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“How are you,</span>
   <span id="f000340">Fletcher?</span>
   <span id="f000341">If you are bound for Chapel I’ll take you up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">“Thanks;</span>
   <span id="f000343">good-morning,</span>
   <span id="f000344">Miss Heath.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">It was all done in an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and the next thing Kitty knew she was rolling away with the elegant Horace sitting opposite.</span>
   <span id="f000347">How little it takes to make a young girl happy!</span>
   <span id="f000348">A pretty dress,</span>
   <span id="f000349">sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and somebody opposite,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and they are blest.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Kitty’s face glowed and dimpled with pleasure as she glanced about her,</span>
   <span id="f000353">especially when <em>she</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000354">sitting in state with two gentlemen all to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000355">passed “those girls” walking in the dust with a beardless boy;</span>
   <span id="f000356">she felt that she could forgive past slights,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and did so with a magnanimous smile and bow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">Both Jack and Fletcher had graduated the year before,</span>
   <span id="f000359">but still took an interest in their old haunts,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and patronized the fellows who were not yet through the mill,</span>
   <span id="f000361">at least the Seniors and Juniors;</span>
   <span id="f000362">of Sophs and Freshs they were sublimely unconscious.</span>
   <span id="f000363">Greeted by frequent slaps on the shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and hearty “How are you,</span>
   <span id="f000365">old fellows,” they piloted Kitty to a seat in the chapel.</span>
   <span id="f000366">An excellent place,</span>
   <span id="f000367">but the girl’s satisfaction was marred by Fletcher’s desertion,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and she could not see anything attractive about the dashing young lady in the pink bonnet to whom he devoted himself,</span>
   <span id="f000369">“because she was a stranger,” Kitty said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">Everybody knows what goes on in the Chapel,</span>
   <span id="f000371">after the fight and scramble are over.</span>
   <span id="f000372">The rustle and buzz,</span>
   <span id="f000373">the music,</span>
   <span id="f000374">the oratory and the poem,</span>
   <span id="f000375">during which the men cheer and the girls simper;</span>
   <span id="f000376">the professors yawn,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and the poet’s friends pronounce him a second Longfellow.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Then the closing flourishes,</span>
   <span id="f000379">the grand crush,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and general scattering.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">Then the fun really begins,</span>
   <span id="f000382">as far as the young folks are concerned.</span>
   <span id="f000383"><em>They</em> don’t mind swarming up and down stairs in a solid phalanx;</span>
   <span id="f000384">they can enjoy half a dozen courses of salad,</span>
   <span id="f000385">ice and strawberries,</span>
   <span id="f000386">with stout gentlemen crushing their feet,</span>
   <span id="f000387">anxious mammas sticking sharp elbows into their sides,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and absent-minded tutors walking over them.</span>
   <span id="f000389">They can flirt vigorously in a torrid atmosphere of dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000390">dust,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and din;</span>
   <span id="f000392">can smile with hot coffee running down their backs,</span>
   <span id="f000393">small avalanches of ice-cream descending upon their best bonnets,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and sandwiches,</span>
   <span id="f000395">butter-side down,</span>
   <span id="f000396">reposing on their delicate silks.</span>
   <span id="f000397">They know that it is a costly rapture,</span>
   <span id="f000398">but they carefully refrain from thinking of the morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and energetically illustrate the Yankee maxim which bids us enjoy ourselves in our early bloom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">Kitty did have “a rousing good time;” for Jack was devoted,</span>
   <span id="f000401">taking her everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000402">showing her everything,</span>
   <span id="f000403">feeding and fanning her,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and festooning her train with untiring patience.</span>
   <span id="f000405">How many forcible expressions he mentally indulged in as he walked on that unlucky train we will not record;</span>
   <span id="f000406">he smiled and skipped and talked of treading on flowers in a way that would have charmed Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000407">if some one else had not been hovering about “The Daisy,” as Fletcher called her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">After he returned,</span>
   <span id="f000409">she neglected Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000410">who took it coolly,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and was never in the way unless she wanted him.</span>
   <span id="f000412">For the first time in her life,</span>
   <span id="f000413">Kitty deliberately flirted.</span>
   <span id="f000414">The little coquetries,</span>
   <span id="f000415">which are as natural to a gay young girl as her laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000416">were all in full play,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and had she gone no further no harm would have been done.</span>
   <span id="f000418">But,</span>
   <span id="f000419">excited by the example of those about her,</span>
   <span id="f000420">Kitty tried to enact the fashionable young lady,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and,</span>
   <span id="f000422">like most novices,</span>
   <span id="f000423">she overdid the part.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Quite forgetting her cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000425">she tossed her head,</span>
   <span id="f000426">twirled her fan,</span>
   <span id="f000427">gave affected little shrieks at college jokes,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and talked college slang in a way that convulsed Fletcher,</span>
   <span id="f000429">who enjoyed the fun immensely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">Jack saw it all,</span>
   <span id="f000431">shook his head and said nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000432">but his face grew rather sober as he watched Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000433">flushed,</span>
   <span id="f000434">dishevelled,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and breathless,</span>
   <span id="f000436">whirling round Lyceum Hall,</span>
   <span id="f000437">on the arm of Fletcher,</span>
   <span id="f000438">who danced divinely,</span>
   <span id="f000439">as all the girls agreed.</span>
   <span id="f000440">Jack had proposed going,</span>
   <span id="f000441">but Kitty had frowned,</span>
   <span id="f000442">so he fell back,</span>
   <span id="f000443">leaving her to listen and laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000444">blush and shrink a little at her partner’s flowery compliments and admiring glances.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“If she stands that long she’s not the girl I took her for,” thought Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000446">beginning to lose patience.</span>
   <span id="f000447">“She doesn’t look like my little Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and somehow I don’t feel half so fond and proud of her as usual.</span>
   <span id="f000449">I know one thing,</span>
   <span id="f000450"><em>my</em> daughters shall never be seen knocking about in that style.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">As if the thought suggested the act,</span>
   <span id="f000452">Jack suddenly assumed an air of paternal authority,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and,</span>
   <span id="f000454">arresting his cousin as she was about to begin again,</span>
   <span id="f000455">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000456">in a tone she had never heard before,</span>
   <span id="f000457">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">“I promised Pris to take care of you,</span>
   <span id="f000459">so I shall carry you off to rest,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and put yourself to rights after this game of romps.</span>
   <span id="f000461">I advise you to do the same,</span>
   <span id="f000462">Fletcher,</span>
   <span id="f000463">or give your friend in the pink bonnet a turn.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">Kitty took Jack’s arm pettishly,</span>
   <span id="f000465">but glanced over her shoulder with such an inviting smile that Fletcher followed,</span>
   <span id="f000466">feeling very much like a top,</span>
   <span id="f000467">in danger of tumbling down the instant he stopped spinning.</span>
   <span id="f000468">As she came out Kitty’s face cleared,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and,</span>
   <span id="f000470">assuming her sprightliest air,</span>
   <span id="f000471">she spread her plumage and prepared to descend with effect,</span>
   <span id="f000472">for a party of uninvited <em>peris</em> stood at the gate of this Paradise casting longing glances at the forbidden splendors within.</span>
   <span id="f000473">Slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000474">that all might see her,</span>
   <span id="f000475">Kitty sailed down,</span>
   <span id="f000476">with Horace,</span>
   <span id="f000477">the debonair,</span>
   <span id="f000478">in her wake,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and was just thinking to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000480">“Those girls won’t get over this very soon,</span>
   <span id="f000481">I fancy,” when all in one moment she heard Fletcher exclaim,</span>
   <span id="f000482">wrathfully,</span>
   <span id="f000483">“Hang the flounces!” she saw a very glossy black hat come skipping down the steps,</span>
   <span id="f000484">felt a violent twitch backward,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and,</span>
   <span id="f000486">to save herself from a fall,</span>
   <span id="f000487">sat down on the lower step with most undignified haste.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">It was impossible for the bystanders to help laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000489">for there was Fletcher hopping wildly about,</span>
   <span id="f000490">with one foot nicely caught in a muslin loop,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and there sat Kitty longing to run away and hide herself,</span>
   <span id="f000492">yet perfectly helpless,</span>
   <span id="f000493">while every one tittered.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Miss Jones and Miss Smith laughed shrilly,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and the despised little Freshman completed her mortification,</span>
   <span id="f000496">by a feeble joke about Kitty Heath’s new man-trap.</span>
   <span id="f000497">It was only an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000498">but it seemed an hour before Fletcher freed her,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and snatching up the dusty beaver,</span>
   <span id="f000500">left her with a flushed countenance and an abrupt bow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">If it hadn’t been for Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000502">Kitty would have burst into tears then and there,</span>
   <span id="f000503">so terrible was the sense of humiliation which oppressed her.</span>
   <span id="f000504">For his sake she controlled herself,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and,</span>
   <span id="f000506">bundling up her torn train,</span>
   <span id="f000507">set her teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000508">stared straight before her,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and let him lead her in dead silence to a friend’s room near by.</span>
   <span id="f000510">There he locked the door,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and began to comfort her by making light of the little mishap.</span>
   <span id="f000512">But Kitty cried so tragically,</span>
   <span id="f000513">that he was at his wit’s end,</span>
   <span id="f000514">till the ludicrous side of the affair struck her,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and she began to laugh hysterically.</span>
   <span id="f000516">With a vague idea that vigorous treatment was best for that feminine ailment,</span>
   <span id="f000517">Jack was about to empty the contents of an ice-pitcher over her,</span>
   <span id="f000518">when she arrested him,</span>
   <span id="f000519">by exclaiming,</span>
   <span id="f000520">incoherently,</span>
   <span id="f000521">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000523">don’t!</span>
   <span id="f000524">– it was so funny!</span>
   <span id="f000525">– how can you laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000526">you cruel boy?</span>
   <span id="f000527">– I’m disgraced,</span>
   <span id="f000528">forever – take me home to Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000529">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000530">take me home to Pris!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">“I will,</span>
   <span id="f000532">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000533">I will;</span>
   <span id="f000534">but first let me right you up a bit;</span>
   <span id="f000535">you look as if you had been hazed,</span>
   <span id="f000536">upon my life you do;” and Jack laughed in spite of himself at the wretched little object before him,</span>
   <span id="f000537">for dust,</span>
   <span id="f000538">dancing,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and the downfall produced a ruinous spectacle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">That broke Kitty’s heart;</span>
   <span id="f000541">and,</span>
   <span id="f000542">spreading her hands before her face,</span>
   <span id="f000543">she was about to cry again,</span>
   <span id="f000544">when the sad sight which met her eyes dispelled the gathering tears.</span>
   <span id="f000545">The new gloves were both split up the middle and very dirty with clutching at the steps as she went down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“Never mind,</span>
   <span id="f000547">you can wash them,” said Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000548">soothingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“I paid a dollar and a half for them,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and they can’t be washed,” groaned Kitty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000552">hang the gloves!</span>
   <span id="f000553">I meant your hands,” cried Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000554">trying to keep sober.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“No matter for my hands,</span>
   <span id="f000556">I mourn my gloves.</span>
   <span id="f000557">But I won’t cry any more,</span>
   <span id="f000558">for my head aches now so I can hardly see.” And Kitty threw off her bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000559">as if even that airy trifle hurt her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">Seeing how pale she looked,</span>
   <span id="f000561">Jack tenderly suggested a rest on the old sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000562">and a wet handkerchief on her hot forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000563">while he got the good landlady to send her up a cup of tea.</span>
   <span id="f000564">As Kitty rose to comply she glanced at her dress,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and,</span>
   <span id="f000566">clasping her hands,</span>
   <span id="f000567">exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000568">tragically,</span>
   <span id="f000569">– “The facing,</span>
   <span id="f000570">the fatal facing!</span>
   <span id="f000571">That made all the mischief,</span>
   <span id="f000572">for if I’d sewed it last night it wouldn’t have ripped to-day;</span>
   <span id="f000573">if it hadn’t ripped Fletcher wouldn’t have got his foot in it,</span>
   <span id="f000574">I shouldn’t have made an object of myself,</span>
   <span id="f000575">he wouldn’t have gone off in a rage,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and – who knows what might have happened?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">“Bless the what’s-its-name if it has settled him,” cried Jack.</span>
   <span id="f000578">“He is a contemptible fellow not to stay and help you out of the scrape he got you into.</span>
   <span id="f000579">Follow his lead and don’t trouble yourself about him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000581">he <em>was</em> rather absurd to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000582">I allow;</span>
   <span id="f000583">but he <em>has</em> got handsome eyes and hands,</span>
   <span id="f000584">and he <em>does</em> dance like an angel,” sighed Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000585">as she pinned up the treacherous loop which had brought destruction to her little castle in the air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“Handsome eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000587">white hands,</span>
   <span id="f000588">and angelic feet don’t make a man.</span>
   <span id="f000589">Wait till you can do better,</span>
   <span id="f000590">Kit.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">With an odd,</span>
   <span id="f000592">grave look,</span>
   <span id="f000593">that rather startled Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000594">Jack vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000595">to return presently with a comfortable cup of tea and a motherly old lady to help repair damages and soothe her by the foolish little purrings and pattings so grateful to female nerves after a flurry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">“I’ll come back and take you out to see the dance round the tree when you’ve had a bit of a rest,” said Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000597">vibrating between door and sofa as if it wasn’t easy to get away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000599">I couldn’t,” cried Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000600">with a shudder at the bare idea of meeting any one.</span>
   <span id="f000601">“I can’t be seen again to-night;</span>
   <span id="f000602">let me stay here till my train goes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">“I thought it had gone,</span>
   <span id="f000604">already,” said Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000605">with an irrepressible twinkle of the eye that glanced at the draggled dress sweeping the floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">“How <em>can</em> you joke about it!” and the girl’s reproachful eyes filled with tears of shame.</span>
   <span id="f000607">“I know I’ve been very silly,</span>
   <span id="f000608">Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000609">but I’ve had my punishment,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and I don’t need any more.</span>
   <span id="f000611">To feel that you despise me is worse than all the rest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">She ended with a little sob,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and turned her face away to hide the trembling of her lips.</span>
   <span id="f000614">At that,</span>
   <span id="f000615">Jack flushed up,</span>
   <span id="f000616">his eyes shone,</span>
   <span id="f000617">and he stooped suddenly as if to make some impetuous reply.</span>
   <span id="f000618">But,</span>
   <span id="f000619">remembering the old lady</span>
   <span id="f000620">(who,</span>
   <span id="f000621">by the by,</span>
   <span id="f000622">was discreetly looking out of the window),</span>
   <span id="f000623">he put his hands in his pockets and strolled out of the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000624">“I’ve lost them both by this day’s folly,” thought Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000625">as Mrs.&#160;Brown departed with the teacup.</span>
   <span id="f000626">“I don’t care for Fletcher,</span>
   <span id="f000627">for I dare say he didn’t mean half he said,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and I was only flattered because he is rich and handsome and the girls glorify him.</span>
   <span id="f000629">But I shall miss Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000630">for I’ve known and loved him all my life.</span>
   <span id="f000631">How good he’s been to me to-day!</span>
   <span id="f000632">so patient,</span>
   <span id="f000633">careful,</span>
   <span id="f000634">and kind,</span>
   <span id="f000635">though he must have been ashamed of me.</span>
   <span id="f000636">I know he didn’t like my dress;</span>
   <span id="f000637">but he never said a word and stood by me through everything.</span>
   <span id="f000638">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000639">I wish I’d minded Pris!</span>
   <span id="f000640">then he would have respected me,</span>
   <span id="f000641">at least;</span>
   <span id="f000642">I wonder if he ever will,</span>
   <span id="f000643">again?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">Following a sudden impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000645">Kitty sprang up,</span>
   <span id="f000646">locked the door,</span>
   <span id="f000647">and then proceeded to destroy all her little vanities as far as possible.</span>
   <span id="f000648">She smoothed out her crimps with a wet and ruthless hand;</span>
   <span id="f000649">fastened up her pretty hair in the simple way Jack liked;</span>
   <span id="f000650">gave her once cherished bonnet a spiteful shake,</span>
   <span id="f000651">as she put it on,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and utterly extinguished it with a big blue veil.</span>
   <span id="f000653">She looped up her dress,</span>
   <span id="f000654">leaving no vestige of the now hateful train,</span>
   <span id="f000655">and did herself up uncompromisingly in the Quakerish gray shawl Pris had insisted on her taking for the evening.</span>
   <span id="f000656">Then she surveyed herself with pensive satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000657">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000658">in the tone of one bent on resolutely mortifying the flesh,</span>
   <span id="f000659">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000660">“Neat but not gaudy;</span>
   <span id="f000661">I’m a fright,</span>
   <span id="f000662">but I deserve it,</span>
   <span id="f000663">and it’s better than being a peacock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">Kitty had time to feel a little friendless and forlorn,</span>
   <span id="f000665">sitting there alone as twilight fell,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and amused herself by wondering if Fletcher would come to inquire about her,</span>
   <span id="f000667">or show any further interest in her;</span>
   <span id="f000668">yet when the sound of a manly tramp approached,</span>
   <span id="f000669">she trembled lest it should be the victim of the fatal facing.</span>
   <span id="f000670">The door opened,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and with a sigh of relief she saw Jack come in,</span>
   <span id="f000672">bearing a pair of new gloves in one hand and a great bouquet of June roses in the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“How good of you to bring me these!</span>
   <span id="f000674">They are more refreshing than oceans of tea.</span>
   <span id="f000675">You know what I like,</span>
   <span id="f000676">Jack;</span>
   <span id="f000677">thank you very much” cried Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000678">sniffing at her roses with grateful rapture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">“And you know what I like,” returned Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000680">with an approving glance at the altered figure before him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“I’ll never do so any more,” murmured Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000682">wondering why she felt bashful all of a sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000683">when it was only cousin Jack.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000684">“Now put on your gloves,</span>
   <span id="f000685">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and come out and hear the music:</span>
   <span id="f000687">your train doesn’t go for two hours yet,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and you mustn’t mope here all that time,” said Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000689">offering his second gift.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">“How did you know my size?” asked Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000691">putting on the gloves in a hurry;</span>
   <span id="f000692">for though Jack had called her “dear” for years,</span>
   <span id="f000693">the little word had a new sound to-night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">“I guessed,</span>
   <span id="f000695">– no,</span>
   <span id="f000696">I didn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000697">I had the old ones with me;</span>
   <span id="f000698">they are no good now,</span>
   <span id="f000699">are they?” and too honest to lie,</span>
   <span id="f000700">Jack tried to speak carelessly,</span>
   <span id="f000701">though he turned red in the dusk,</span>
   <span id="f000702">well knowing that the dirty little gloves were folded away in his left breast-pocket at that identical moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000704">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000705">no!</span>
   <span id="f000706">these fit nicely.</span>
   <span id="f000707">I’m ready,</span>
   <span id="f000708">if you don’t mind going with such a fright,” said Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000709">forgetting her dread of seeing people in her desire to get away from that room,</span>
   <span id="f000710">because for the first time in her life she wasn’t at ease with Jack.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“I think I like the little gray moth better than the fine butterfly,” returned Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000712">who,</span>
   <span id="f000713">in spite of his invitation,</span>
   <span id="f000714">seemed to find “moping” rather pleasant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“You are a rainy-day friend,</span>
   <span id="f000716">and he isn’t,” said Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000717">softly,</span>
   <span id="f000718">as she drew him away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000719">Jack’s only answer was to lay his hand on the little white glove resting so confidingly on his arm,</span>
   <span id="f000720">and,</span>
   <span id="f000721">keeping it there,</span>
   <span id="f000722">they roamed away into the summer twilight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">Something had happened to the evening and the place,</span>
   <span id="f000724">for both seemed suddenly endowed with uncommon beauty and interest.</span>
   <span id="f000725">The dingy old houses might have been fairy palaces,</span>
   <span id="f000726">for anything they saw to the contrary;</span>
   <span id="f000727">the dusty walks,</span>
   <span id="f000728">the trampled grass,</span>
   <span id="f000729">were regular Elysian fields to them,</span>
   <span id="f000730">and the music was the music of the spheres,</span>
   <span id="f000731">though they found themselves “Right in the middle of the boom,</span>
   <span id="f000732">jing,</span>
   <span id="f000733">jing.” For both had made a little discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000734">– no,</span>
   <span id="f000735">not a little one,</span>
   <span id="f000736">the greatest and sweetest man and woman can make.</span>
   <span id="f000737">In the sharp twinge of jealousy which the sight of Kitty’s flirtation with Fletcher gave him,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and the delight he found in her after conduct,</span>
   <span id="f000739">Jack discovered how much he loved her.</span>
   <span id="f000740">In the shame,</span>
   <span id="f000741">gratitude,</span>
   <span id="f000742">and half sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000743">half bitter emotion that filled her heart,</span>
   <span id="f000744">Kitty felt that to her Jack would never be “only cousin Jack” any more.</span>
   <span id="f000745">All the vanity,</span>
   <span id="f000746">coquetry,</span>
   <span id="f000747">selfishness,</span>
   <span id="f000748">and ill-temper of the day seemed magnified to heinous sins,</span>
   <span id="f000749">for now her only thought was,</span>
   <span id="f000750">“seeing these faults,</span>
   <span id="f000751">he <em>can’t</em> care for me.</span>
   <span id="f000752">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000753">I wish I was a better girl!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">She did not say “for his sake,” but in the new humility,</span>
   <span id="f000755">the ardent wish to be all that a woman should be,</span>
   <span id="f000756">little Kitty proved how true her love was,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and might have said with Portia,</span>
   <span id="f000758">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000759">“For myself alone,</span>
   <span id="f000760">I would not be<br /></span>
   <span id="f000761">Ambitious in my wish;</span>
   <span id="f000762">but,</span>
   <span id="f000763">for you,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000764">I would be trebled twenty times myself;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000765">A thousand times more fair,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000766">Ten thousand times more rich.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000767">All about them other pairs were wandering under the patriarchal elms,</span>
   <span id="f000768">enjoying music,</span>
   <span id="f000769">starlight,</span>
   <span id="f000770">balmy winds,</span>
   <span id="f000771">and all the luxuries of the season.</span>
   <span id="f000772">If the band had played</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000773">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000774">there’s nothing half so sweet in life<br /></span>
   <span id="f000775">As love’s young dream – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000776">it is my private opinion that it would have suited the audience to a T.</span>
   <span id="f000777">Being principally composed of elderly gentlemen with large families,</span>
   <span id="f000778">they had not that fine sense of the fitness of things so charming to see,</span>
   <span id="f000779">and tooted and banged away with waltzes and marches,</span>
   <span id="f000780">quite regardless of the flocks of Romeos and Juliets philandering all about them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000781">Under cover of a popular medley,</span>
   <span id="f000782">Kitty overheard Fletcher quizzing her for the amusement of Miss Pinkbonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000783">who was evidently making up for lost time.</span>
   <span id="f000784">It was feeble wit,</span>
   <span id="f000785">but it put the finishing stroke to Kitty’s vanity,</span>
   <span id="f000786">and she dropped a tear in her blue tissue retreat,</span>
   <span id="f000787">and clung to Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000788">feeling that she had never valued him half enough.</span>
   <span id="f000789">She hoped he didn’t hear the gossip going on at the other side of the tree near which they stood;</span>
   <span id="f000790">but he did,</span>
   <span id="f000791">for his hand involuntarily doubled itself up into a very dangerous-looking fist,</span>
   <span id="f000792">and he darted such fiery glances at the speaker,</span>
   <span id="f000793">that,</span>
   <span id="f000794">if the thing had been possible.</span>
   <span id="f000795">Fletcher’s ambrosial curls would have been scorched off his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“Never mind,</span>
   <span id="f000797">and don’t get angry,</span>
   <span id="f000798">Jack.</span>
   <span id="f000799">They are right about one thing,</span>
   <span id="f000800">– the daisies in my bonnet <em>were</em> real,</span>
   <span id="f000801">and I <em>couldn’t</em> afford any others.</span>
   <span id="f000802">I don’t care much,</span>
   <span id="f000803">only Pris worked so hard to get me ready I hate to have my things made fun of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“He isn’t worth a thrashing,</span>
   <span id="f000805">so we’ll let it pass this time,” said Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000806">irefully,</span>
   <span id="f000807">yet privately resolving to have it out with Fletcher by and by.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000809">Kitty,</span>
   <span id="f000810">I thought the real daisies the prettiest things about your dress.</span>
   <span id="f000811">Don’t throw them away.</span>
   <span id="f000812">I’ll wear them just to show that noodle that I prefer nature to art;” and Jack gallantly stuck the faded posy in his button-hole,</span>
   <span id="f000813">while Kitty treasured up the hint so kindly given for future use.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000814">If a clock with great want of tact hadn’t insisted on telling them that it was getting late,</span>
   <span id="f000815">Kitty never would have got home,</span>
   <span id="f000816">for both the young people felt inclined to loiter about arm in arm through the sweet summer night forever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">Jack had meant to say something before she went,</span>
   <span id="f000818">and was immensely surprised to find the chance lost for the present.</span>
   <span id="f000819">He wanted to go home with her and free his mind;</span>
   <span id="f000820">but a neighborly old gentleman having been engaged as escort,</span>
   <span id="f000821">there would have been very little satisfaction in a travelling trio;</span>
   <span id="f000822">so he gave it up.</span>
   <span id="f000823">He was very silent as they walked to the station with Dr.&#160;Dodd trudging behind them.</span>
   <span id="f000824">Kitty thought he was tired,</span>
   <span id="f000825">perhaps glad to be rid of her,</span>
   <span id="f000826">and meekly accepted her fate.</span>
   <span id="f000827">But as the train approached,</span>
   <span id="f000828">she gave his hand an impulsive squeeze,</span>
   <span id="f000829">and said very gratefully,</span>
   <span id="f000830">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000831">“Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000832">I can’t thank you enough for your kindness to your silly little cousin;</span>
   <span id="f000833">but I never shall forget it,</span>
   <span id="f000834">and if I ever can return it in any way,</span>
   <span id="f000835">I will with all my heart.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">Jack looked down at the young face almost pathetic now with weariness,</span>
   <span id="f000837">humility,</span>
   <span id="f000838">and pain,</span>
   <span id="f000839">yet very sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000840">with that new shyness in the loving eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000841">and,</span>
   <span id="f000842">stooping suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000843">he kissed it,</span>
   <span id="f000844">whispering in a tone that made the girl’s heart flutter,</span>
   <span id="f000845">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">“I’ll tell you how you may return it ’with all your heart,’ by and by.</span>
   <span id="f000847">Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000848">my Kitty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000849">“Have you had a good time,</span>
   <span id="f000850">dear?” asked Pris,</span>
   <span id="f000851">as her sister appeared an hour later.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">“Don’t I look as if I had?” and,</span>
   <span id="f000853">throwing off her wraps,</span>
   <span id="f000854">Kitty revolved slowly before her that she might behold every portion of the wreck.</span>
   <span id="f000855">“My gown is all dust,</span>
   <span id="f000856">crumple,</span>
   <span id="f000857">and rags,</span>
   <span id="f000858">my bonnet perfectly limp and flat,</span>
   <span id="f000859">and my gloves are ruined;</span>
   <span id="f000860">I’ve broken Lizzie’s parasol,</span>
   <span id="f000861">made a spectacle of myself,</span>
   <span id="f000862">and wasted money,</span>
   <span id="f000863">time,</span>
   <span id="f000864">and temper;</span>
   <span id="f000865">yet my Class Day isn’t a failure,</span>
   <span id="f000866">for Jack is the dearest boy in the world,</span>
   <span id="f000867">and I’m very,</span>
   <span id="f000868">very happy!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000869">Pris looked at her a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000870">then opened her arms without a word,</span>
   <span id="f000871">and Kitty forgot all her little troubles in one great joy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">When Miss Smith and Miss Jones called a few days after to tell her that Mr.&#160;Fletcher was going abroad,</span>
   <span id="f000873">the amiable creatures were entirely routed by finding Jack there in a most unmistakable situation.</span>
   <span id="f000874">He blandly wished Horace “bon voyage,” and regretted that he wouldn’t be there to the wedding in October.</span>
   <span id="f000875">Kitty devoted herself to blushing beautifully,</span>
   <span id="f000876">and darning many rents in a short daisy muslin skirt,</span>
   <span id="f000877">“which I intend to wear a great deal,</span>
   <span id="f000878">because Jack likes it,</span>
   <span id="f000879">and so do I,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000880">with a demure look at her lover,</span>
   <span id="f000881">who laughed as if that was the best joke of the season.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

