<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure VII<br />The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning after Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000009">with the intention of wishing him the compliments of the season.</span>
   <span id="f000010">He was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000011">a pipe-rack within his reach upon the right,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and a pile of crumpled morning papers,</span>
   <span id="f000013">evidently newly studied,</span>
   <span id="f000014">near at hand.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Beside the couch was a wooden chair,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and disreputable hard-felt hat,</span>
   <span id="f000017">much the worse for wear,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and cracked in several places.</span>
   <span id="f000019">A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of examination.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">“You are engaged,” said I;</span>
   <span id="f000021">“perhaps I interrupt you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">“Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000023">I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my results.</span>
   <span id="f000024">The matter is a perfectly trivial one” – he jerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat – “but there are points in connection with it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his crackling fire,</span>
   <span id="f000026">for a sharp frost had set in,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and the windows were thick with the ice crystals.</span>
   <span id="f000028">“I suppose,” I remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000029">“that,</span>
   <span id="f000030">homely as it looks,</span>
   <span id="f000031">this thing has some deadly story linked on to it – that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some crime.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000033">no.</span>
   <span id="f000034">No crime,” said Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000035">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000036">“Only one of those whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square miles.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity,</span>
   <span id="f000038">every possible combination of events may be expected to take place,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and bizarre without being criminal.</span>
   <span id="f000040">We have already had experience of such.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">“So much so,” I remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000042">“that of the last six cases which I have added to my notes,</span>
   <span id="f000043">three have been entirely free of any legal crime.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“Precisely.</span>
   <span id="f000045">You allude to my attempt to recover the Irene Adler papers,</span>
   <span id="f000046">to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and to the adventure of the man with the twisted lip.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000049">I have no doubt that this small matter will fall into the same innocent category.</span>
   <span id="f000050">You know Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000051">the commissionaire?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“It is to him that this trophy belongs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“It is his hat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000056">no,</span>
   <span id="f000057">he found it.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Its owner is unknown.</span>
   <span id="f000059">I beg that you will look upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem.</span>
   <span id="f000060">And,</span>
   <span id="f000061">first,</span>
   <span id="f000062">as to how it came here.</span>
   <span id="f000063">It arrived upon Christmas morning,</span>
   <span id="f000064">in company with a good fat goose,</span>
   <span id="f000065">which is,</span>
   <span id="f000066">I have no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000067">roasting at this moment in front of Peterson’s fire.</span>
   <span id="f000068">The facts are these:</span>
   <span id="f000069">about four o’clock on Christmas morning,</span>
   <span id="f000070">Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000071">who,</span>
   <span id="f000072">as you know,</span>
   <span id="f000073">is a very honest fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000074">was returning from some small jollification and was making his way homeward down Tottenham Court Road.</span>
   <span id="f000075">In front of him he saw,</span>
   <span id="f000076">in the gaslight,</span>
   <span id="f000077">a tallish man,</span>
   <span id="f000078">walking with a slight stagger,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000080">As he reached the corner of Goodge Street,</span>
   <span id="f000081">a row broke out between this stranger and a little knot of roughs.</span>
   <span id="f000082">One of the latter knocked off the man’s hat,</span>
   <span id="f000083">on which he raised his stick to defend himself and,</span>
   <span id="f000084">swinging it over his head,</span>
   <span id="f000085">smashed the shop window behind him.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Peterson had rushed forward to protect the stranger from his assailants;</span>
   <span id="f000087">but the man,</span>
   <span id="f000088">shocked at having broken the window,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and seeing an official-looking person in uniform rushing towards him,</span>
   <span id="f000090">dropped his goose,</span>
   <span id="f000091">took to his heels,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and vanished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of Tottenham Court Road.</span>
   <span id="f000093">The roughs had also fled at the appearance of Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000094">so that he was left in possession of the field of battle,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat and a most unimpeachable Christmas goose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“Which surely he restored to their owner?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“My dear fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000098">there lies the problem.</span>
   <span id="f000099">It is true that ’For Mrs.&#160;Henry Baker’ was printed upon a small card which was tied to the bird’s left leg,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and it is also true that the initials ’H.</span>
   <span id="f000101">B.’ are legible upon the lining of this hat,</span>
   <span id="f000102">but as there are some thousands of Bakers,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours,</span>
   <span id="f000104">it is not easy to restore lost property to any one of them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“What,</span>
   <span id="f000106">then,</span>
   <span id="f000107">did Peterson do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning,</span>
   <span id="f000109">knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me.</span>
   <span id="f000110">The goose we retained until this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000111">when there were signs that,</span>
   <span id="f000112">in spite of the slight frost,</span>
   <span id="f000113">it would be well that it should be eaten without unnecessary delay.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Its finder has carried it off,</span>
   <span id="f000115">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000116">to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose,</span>
   <span id="f000117">while I continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his Christmas dinner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">“Did he not advertise?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“No.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000121">what clue could you have as to his identity?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“Only as much as we can deduce.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“From his hat?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“Precisely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">“But you are joking.</span>
   <span id="f000126">What can you gather from this old battered felt?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“Here is my lens.</span>
   <span id="f000128">You know my methods.</span>
   <span id="f000129">What can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this article?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather ruefully.</span>
   <span id="f000131">It was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round shape,</span>
   <span id="f000132">hard and much the worse for wear.</span>
   <span id="f000133">The lining had been of red silk,</span>
   <span id="f000134">but was a good deal discoloured.</span>
   <span id="f000135">There was no maker’s name;</span>
   <span id="f000136">but,</span>
   <span id="f000137">as Holmes had remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000138">the initials “H.</span>
   <span id="f000139">B.” were scrawled upon one side.</span>
   <span id="f000140">It was pierced in the brim for a hat-securer,</span>
   <span id="f000141">but the elastic was missing.</span>
   <span id="f000142">For the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000143">it was cracked,</span>
   <span id="f000144">exceedingly dusty,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and spotted in several places,</span>
   <span id="f000146">although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“I can see nothing,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000148">handing it back to my friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000150">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000151">you can see everything.</span>
   <span id="f000152">You fail,</span>
   <span id="f000153">however,</span>
   <span id="f000154">to reason from what you see.</span>
   <span id="f000155">You are too timid in drawing your inferences.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000157">pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him.</span>
   <span id="f000159">“It is perhaps less suggestive than it might have been,” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000160">“and yet there are a few inferences which are very distinct,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of probability.</span>
   <span id="f000162">That the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the face of it,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the last three years,</span>
   <span id="f000164">although he has now fallen upon evil days.</span>
   <span id="f000165">He had foresight,</span>
   <span id="f000166">but has less now than formerly,</span>
   <span id="f000167">pointing to a moral retrogression,</span>
   <span id="f000168">which,</span>
   <span id="f000169">when taken with the decline of his fortunes,</span>
   <span id="f000170">seems to indicate some evil influence,</span>
   <span id="f000171">probably drink,</span>
   <span id="f000172">at work upon him.</span>
   <span id="f000173">This may account also for the obvious fact that his wife has ceased to love him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“My dear Holmes!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“He has,</span>
   <span id="f000176">however,</span>
   <span id="f000177">retained some degree of self-respect,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000178">disregarding my remonstrance.</span>
   <span id="f000179">“He is a man who leads a sedentary life,</span>
   <span id="f000180">goes out little,</span>
   <span id="f000181">is out of training entirely,</span>
   <span id="f000182">is middle-aged,</span>
   <span id="f000183">has grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and which he anoints with lime-cream.</span>
   <span id="f000185">These are the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000187">by the way,</span>
   <span id="f000188">that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laid on in his house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“You are certainly joking,</span>
   <span id="f000190">Holmes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“Not in the least.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Is it possible that even now,</span>
   <span id="f000193">when I give you these results,</span>
   <span id="f000194">you are unable to see how they are attained?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“I have no doubt that I am very stupid,</span>
   <span id="f000196">but I must confess that I am unable to follow you.</span>
   <span id="f000197">For example,</span>
   <span id="f000198">how did you deduce that this man was intellectual?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head.</span>
   <span id="f000200">It came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose.</span>
   <span id="f000201">“It is a question of cubic capacity,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000202">“a man with so large a brain must have something in it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">“The decline of his fortunes,</span>
   <span id="f000204">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“This hat is three years old.</span>
   <span id="f000206">These flat brims curled at the edge came in then.</span>
   <span id="f000207">It is a hat of the very best quality.</span>
   <span id="f000208">Look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining.</span>
   <span id="f000209">If this man could afford to buy so expensive a hat three years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and has had no hat since,</span>
   <span id="f000211">then he has assuredly gone down in the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000213">that is clear enough,</span>
   <span id="f000214">certainly.</span>
   <span id="f000215">But how about the foresight and the moral retrogression?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">Sherlock Holmes laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000217">“Here is the foresight,” said he putting his finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer.</span>
   <span id="f000218">“They are never sold upon hats.</span>
   <span id="f000219">If this man ordered one,</span>
   <span id="f000220">it is a sign of a certain amount of foresight,</span>
   <span id="f000221">since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind.</span>
   <span id="f000222">But since we see that he has broken the elastic and has not troubled to replace it,</span>
   <span id="f000223">it is obvious that he has less foresight now than formerly,</span>
   <span id="f000224">which is a distinct proof of a weakening nature.</span>
   <span id="f000225">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000226">he has endeavoured to conceal some of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink,</span>
   <span id="f000227">which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his self-respect.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">“Your reasoning is certainly plausible.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“The further points,</span>
   <span id="f000230">that he is middle-aged,</span>
   <span id="f000231">that his hair is grizzled,</span>
   <span id="f000232">that it has been recently cut,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and that he uses lime-cream,</span>
   <span id="f000234">are all to be gathered from a close examination of the lower part of the lining.</span>
   <span id="f000235">The lens discloses a large number of hair-ends,</span>
   <span id="f000236">clean cut by the scissors of the barber.</span>
   <span id="f000237">They all appear to be adhesive,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and there is a distinct odour of lime-cream.</span>
   <span id="f000239">This dust,</span>
   <span id="f000240">you will observe,</span>
   <span id="f000241">is not the gritty,</span>
   <span id="f000242">grey dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000243">showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time,</span>
   <span id="f000244">while the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer perspired very freely,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and could therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000246">hardly be in the best of training.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“But his wife – you said that she had ceased to love him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“This hat has not been brushed for weeks.</span>
   <span id="f000249">When I see you,</span>
   <span id="f000250">my dear Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000251">with a week’s accumulation of dust upon your hat,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and when your wife allows you to go out in such a state,</span>
   <span id="f000253">I shall fear that you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife’s affection.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“But he might be a bachelor.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000256">he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Remember the card upon the bird’s leg.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“You have an answer to everything.</span>
   <span id="f000259">But how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“One tallow stain,</span>
   <span id="f000261">or even two,</span>
   <span id="f000262">might come by chance;</span>
   <span id="f000263">but when I see no less than five,</span>
   <span id="f000264">I think that there can be little doubt that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with burning tallow – walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a guttering candle in the other.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Anyhow,</span>
   <span id="f000266">he never got tallow-stains from a gas-jet.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Are you satisfied?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000269">it is very ingenious,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000270">laughing;</span>
   <span id="f000271">“but since,</span>
   <span id="f000272">as you said just now,</span>
   <span id="f000273">there has been no crime committed,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and no harm done save the loss of a goose,</span>
   <span id="f000275">all this seems to be rather a waste of energy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply,</span>
   <span id="f000277">when the door flew open,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000279">the commissionaire,</span>
   <span id="f000280">rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“The goose,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Mr.&#160;Holmes!</span>
   <span id="f000283">The goose,</span>
   <span id="f000284">sir!” he gasped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">“Eh?</span>
   <span id="f000286">What of it,</span>
   <span id="f000287">then?</span>
   <span id="f000288">Has it returned to life and flapped off through the kitchen window?” Holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man’s excited face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“See here,</span>
   <span id="f000290">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000291">See what my wife found in its crop!” He held out his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly scintillating blue stone,</span>
   <span id="f000292">rather smaller than a bean in size,</span>
   <span id="f000293">but of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle.</span>
   <span id="f000295">“By Jove,</span>
   <span id="f000296">Peterson!” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000297">“this is treasure trove indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000298">I suppose you know what you have got?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“A diamond,</span>
   <span id="f000300">sir?</span>
   <span id="f000301">A precious stone.</span>
   <span id="f000302">It cuts into glass as though it were putty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“It’s more than a precious stone.</span>
   <span id="f000304">It is the precious stone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“Not the Countess of Morcar’s blue carbuncle!” I ejaculated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“Precisely so.</span>
   <span id="f000307">I ought to know its size and shape,</span>
   <span id="f000308">seeing that I have read the advertisement about it in The Times every day lately.</span>
   <span id="f000309">It is absolutely unique,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and its value can only be conjectured,</span>
   <span id="f000311">but the reward offered of 1000 pounds is certainly not within a twentieth part of the market price.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“A thousand pounds!</span>
   <span id="f000313">Great Lord of mercy!” The commissionaire plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“That is the reward,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and I have reason to know that there are sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the gem.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“It was lost,</span>
   <span id="f000317">if I remember aright,</span>
   <span id="f000318">at the Hotel Cosmopolitan,” I remarked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“Precisely so,</span>
   <span id="f000320">on December 22nd,</span>
   <span id="f000321">just five days ago.</span>
   <span id="f000322">John Horner,</span>
   <span id="f000323">a plumber,</span>
   <span id="f000324">was accused of having abstracted it from the lady’s jewel-case.</span>
   <span id="f000325">The evidence against him was so strong that the case has been referred to the Assizes.</span>
   <span id="f000326">I have some account of the matter here,</span>
   <span id="f000327">I believe.” He rummaged amid his newspapers,</span>
   <span id="f000328">glancing over the dates,</span>
   <span id="f000329">until at last he smoothed one out,</span>
   <span id="f000330">doubled it over,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and read the following paragraph:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery.</span>
   <span id="f000333">John Horner,</span>
   <span id="f000334">26,</span>
   <span id="f000335">plumber,</span>
   <span id="f000336">was brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst.,</span>
   <span id="f000337">abstracted from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the valuable gem known as the blue carbuncle.</span>
   <span id="f000338">James Ryder,</span>
   <span id="f000339">upper-attendant at the hotel,</span>
   <span id="f000340">gave his evidence to the effect that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might solder the second bar of the grate,</span>
   <span id="f000341">which was loose.</span>
   <span id="f000342">He had remained with Horner some little time,</span>
   <span id="f000343">but had finally been called away.</span>
   <span id="f000344">On returning,</span>
   <span id="f000345">he found that Horner had disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000346">that the bureau had been forced open,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and that the small morocco casket in which,</span>
   <span id="f000348">as it afterwards transpired,</span>
   <span id="f000349">the Countess was accustomed to keep her jewel,</span>
   <span id="f000350">was lying empty upon the dressing-table.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Ryder instantly gave the alarm,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and Horner was arrested the same evening;</span>
   <span id="f000353">but the stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Catherine Cusack,</span>
   <span id="f000355">maid to the Countess,</span>
   <span id="f000356">deposed to having heard Ryder’s cry of dismay on discovering the robbery,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and to having rushed into the room,</span>
   <span id="f000358">where she found matters as described by the last witness.</span>
   <span id="f000359">Inspector Bradstreet,</span>
   <span id="f000360">B division,</span>
   <span id="f000361">gave evidence as to the arrest of Horner,</span>
   <span id="f000362">who struggled frantically,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and protested his innocence in the strongest terms.</span>
   <span id="f000364">Evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given against the prisoner,</span>
   <span id="f000365">the magistrate refused to deal summarily with the offence,</span>
   <span id="f000366">but referred it to the Assizes.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Horner,</span>
   <span id="f000368">who had shown signs of intense emotion during the proceedings,</span>
   <span id="f000369">fainted away at the conclusion and was carried out of court.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">“Hum!</span>
   <span id="f000371">So much for the police-court,” said Holmes thoughtfully,</span>
   <span id="f000372">tossing aside the paper.</span>
   <span id="f000373">“The question for us now to solve is the sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to the crop of a goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other.</span>
   <span id="f000374">You see,</span>
   <span id="f000375">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000376">our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect.</span>
   <span id="f000377">Here is the stone;</span>
   <span id="f000378">the stone came from the goose,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and the goose came from Mr.&#160;Henry Baker,</span>
   <span id="f000380">the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other characteristics with which I have bored you.</span>
   <span id="f000381">So now we must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and ascertaining what part he has played in this little mystery.</span>
   <span id="f000382">To do this,</span>
   <span id="f000383">we must try the simplest means first,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers.</span>
   <span id="f000385">If this fail,</span>
   <span id="f000386">I shall have recourse to other methods.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“What will you say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“Give me a pencil and that slip of paper.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000390">then:</span>
   <span id="f000391">’Found at the corner of Goodge Street,</span>
   <span id="f000392">a goose and a black felt hat.</span>
   <span id="f000393">Mr.&#160;Henry Baker can have the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at 221B,</span>
   <span id="f000394">Baker Street.’ That is clear and concise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“Very.</span>
   <span id="f000396">But will he see it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000398">he is sure to keep an eye on the papers,</span>
   <span id="f000399">since,</span>
   <span id="f000400">to a poor man,</span>
   <span id="f000401">the loss was a heavy one.</span>
   <span id="f000402">He was clearly so scared by his mischance in breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of nothing but flight,</span>
   <span id="f000403">but since then he must have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drop his bird.</span>
   <span id="f000404">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000405">again,</span>
   <span id="f000406">the introduction of his name will cause him to see it,</span>
   <span id="f000407">for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to it.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Here you are,</span>
   <span id="f000409">Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000410">run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening papers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“In which,</span>
   <span id="f000412">sir?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000414">in the Globe,</span>
   <span id="f000415">Star,</span>
   <span id="f000416">Pall Mall,</span>
   <span id="f000417">St.&#160;James’s,</span>
   <span id="f000418">Evening News,</span>
   <span id="f000419">Standard,</span>
   <span id="f000420">Echo,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and any others that occur to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">“Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000423">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000424">And this stone?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000426">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000427">I shall keep the stone.</span>
   <span id="f000428">Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000429">And,</span>
   <span id="f000430">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000431">Peterson,</span>
   <span id="f000432">just buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me,</span>
   <span id="f000433">for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now devouring.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">When the commissionaire had gone,</span>
   <span id="f000435">Holmes took up the stone and held it against the light.</span>
   <span id="f000436">“It’s a bonny thing,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000437">“Just see how it glints and sparkles.</span>
   <span id="f000438">Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.</span>
   <span id="f000439">Every good stone is.</span>
   <span id="f000440">They are the devil’s pet baits.</span>
   <span id="f000441">In the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed.</span>
   <span id="f000442">This stone is not yet twenty years old.</span>
   <span id="f000443">It was found in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle,</span>
   <span id="f000444">save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red.</span>
   <span id="f000445">In spite of its youth,</span>
   <span id="f000446">it has already a sinister history.</span>
   <span id="f000447">There have been two murders,</span>
   <span id="f000448">a vitriol-throwing,</span>
   <span id="f000449">a suicide,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and several robberies brought about for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal.</span>
   <span id="f000451">Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison?</span>
   <span id="f000452">I’ll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“I cannot tell.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000456">then,</span>
   <span id="f000457">do you imagine that this other one,</span>
   <span id="f000458">Henry Baker,</span>
   <span id="f000459">had anything to do with the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">“It is,</span>
   <span id="f000461">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000462">much more likely that Henry Baker is an absolutely innocent man,</span>
   <span id="f000463">who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold.</span>
   <span id="f000464">That,</span>
   <span id="f000465">however,</span>
   <span id="f000466">I shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our advertisement.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“And you can do nothing until then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“Nothing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“In that case I shall continue my professional round.</span>
   <span id="f000470">But I shall come back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000471">for I should like to see the solution of so tangled a business.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">“Very glad to see you.</span>
   <span id="f000473">I dine at seven.</span>
   <span id="f000474">There is a woodcock,</span>
   <span id="f000475">I believe.</span>
   <span id="f000476">By the way,</span>
   <span id="f000477">in view of recent occurrences,</span>
   <span id="f000478">perhaps I ought to ask Mrs.&#160;Hudson to examine its crop.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">I had been delayed at a case,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and it was a little after half-past six when I found myself in Baker Street once more.</span>
   <span id="f000481">As I approached the house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with a coat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight.</span>
   <span id="f000482">Just as I arrived the door was opened,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and we were shown up together to Holmes’ room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“Mr.&#160;Henry Baker,</span>
   <span id="f000485">I believe,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000486">rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so readily assume.</span>
   <span id="f000487">“Pray take this chair by the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000488">Mr.&#160;Baker.</span>
   <span id="f000489">It is a cold night,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter.</span>
   <span id="f000491">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000492">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000493">you have just come at the right time.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Is that your hat,</span>
   <span id="f000495">Mr.&#160;Baker?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000497">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000498">that is undoubtedly my hat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">He was a large man with rounded shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000500">a massive head,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and a broad,</span>
   <span id="f000502">intelligent face,</span>
   <span id="f000503">sloping down to a pointed beard of grizzled brown.</span>
   <span id="f000504">A touch of red in nose and cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000505">with a slight tremor of his extended hand,</span>
   <span id="f000506">recalled Holmes’ surmise as to his habits.</span>
   <span id="f000507">His rusty black frock-coat was buttoned right up in front,</span>
   <span id="f000508">with the collar turned up,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt.</span>
   <span id="f000510">He spoke in a slow staccato fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000511">choosing his words with care,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and gave the impression generally of a man of learning and letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">“We have retained these things for some days,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000514">“because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address.</span>
   <span id="f000515">I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000517">“Shillings have not been so plentiful with me as they once were,” he remarked.</span>
   <span id="f000518">“I had no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the bird.</span>
   <span id="f000519">I did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">“Very naturally.</span>
   <span id="f000521">By the way,</span>
   <span id="f000522">about the bird,</span>
   <span id="f000523">we were compelled to eat it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“To eat it!” Our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000525">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000526">it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so.</span>
   <span id="f000527">But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000528">which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh,</span>
   <span id="f000529">will answer your purpose equally well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000531">certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000532">certainly,” answered Mr.&#160;Baker with a sigh of relief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000534">we still have the feathers,</span>
   <span id="f000535">legs,</span>
   <span id="f000536">crop,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and so on of your own bird,</span>
   <span id="f000538">so if you wish – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">The man burst into a hearty laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000540">“They might be useful to me as relics of my adventure,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000541">“but beyond that I can hardly see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintance are going to be to me.</span>
   <span id="f000542">No,</span>
   <span id="f000543">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000544">I think that,</span>
   <span id="f000545">with your permission,</span>
   <span id="f000546">I will confine my attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive upon the sideboard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“There is your hat,</span>
   <span id="f000549">then,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and there your bird,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000551">“By the way,</span>
   <span id="f000552">would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from?</span>
   <span id="f000553">I am somewhat of a fowl fancier,</span>
   <span id="f000554">and I have seldom seen a better grown goose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000556">sir,” said Baker,</span>
   <span id="f000557">who had risen and tucked his newly gained property under his arm.</span>
   <span id="f000558">“There are a few of us who frequent the Alpha Inn,</span>
   <span id="f000559">near the Museum – we are to be found in the Museum itself during the day,</span>
   <span id="f000560">you understand.</span>
   <span id="f000561">This year our good host,</span>
   <span id="f000562">Windigate by name,</span>
   <span id="f000563">instituted a goose club,</span>
   <span id="f000564">by which,</span>
   <span id="f000565">on consideration of some few pence every week,</span>
   <span id="f000566">we were each to receive a bird at Christmas.</span>
   <span id="f000567">My pence were duly paid,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and the rest is familiar to you.</span>
   <span id="f000569">I am much indebted to you,</span>
   <span id="f000570">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000571">for a Scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity.” With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">“So much for Mr.&#160;Henry Baker,” said Holmes when he had closed the door behind him.</span>
   <span id="f000573">“It is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000574">Are you hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000575">Watson?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">“Not particularly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">“Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000578">“By all means.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">It was a bitter night,</span>
   <span id="f000580">so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats about our throats.</span>
   <span id="f000581">Outside,</span>
   <span id="f000582">the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots.</span>
   <span id="f000584">Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors’ quarter,</span>
   <span id="f000585">Wimpole Street,</span>
   <span id="f000586">Harley Street,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street.</span>
   <span id="f000588">In a quarter of an hour we were in Bloomsbury at the Alpha Inn,</span>
   <span id="f000589">which is a small public-house at the corner of one of the streets which runs down into Holborn.</span>
   <span id="f000590">Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced,</span>
   <span id="f000591">white-aproned landlord.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">“My geese!” The man seemed surprised.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000595">I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr.&#160;Henry Baker,</span>
   <span id="f000596">who was a member of your goose club.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000598">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000599">I see.</span>
   <span id="f000600">But you see,</span>
   <span id="f000601">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000602">them’s not our geese.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">“Indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000604">Whose,</span>
   <span id="f000605">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000607">I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000608">“Indeed?</span>
   <span id="f000609">I know some of them.</span>
   <span id="f000610">Which was it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000611">“Breckinridge is his name.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000613">I don’t know him.</span>
   <span id="f000614">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000615">here’s your good health landlord,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and prosperity to your house.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Good-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“Now for Mr.&#160;Breckinridge,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000619">buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air.</span>
   <span id="f000620">“Remember,</span>
   <span id="f000621">Watson that though we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain,</span>
   <span id="f000622">we have at the other a man who will certainly get seven years’ penal servitude unless we can establish his innocence.</span>
   <span id="f000623">It is possible that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt;</span>
   <span id="f000624">but,</span>
   <span id="f000625">in any case,</span>
   <span id="f000626">we have a line of investigation which has been missed by the police,</span>
   <span id="f000627">and which a singular chance has placed in our hands.</span>
   <span id="f000628">Let us follow it out to the bitter end.</span>
   <span id="f000629">Faces to the south,</span>
   <span id="f000630">then,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and quick march!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000632">We passed across Holborn,</span>
   <span id="f000633">down Endell Street,</span>
   <span id="f000634">and so through a zigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market.</span>
   <span id="f000635">One of the largest stalls bore the name of Breckinridge upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000636">and the proprietor a horsey-looking man,</span>
   <span id="f000637">with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up the shutters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">“Good-evening.</span>
   <span id="f000639">It’s a cold night,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">“Sold out of geese,</span>
   <span id="f000642">I see,” continued Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000643">pointing at the bare slabs of marble.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">“Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">“That’s no good.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000647">there are some on the stall with the gas-flare.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000649">but I was recommended to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">“Who by?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">“The landlord of the Alpha.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000653">yes;</span>
   <span id="f000654">I sent him a couple of dozen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">“Fine birds they were,</span>
   <span id="f000656">too.</span>
   <span id="f000657">Now where did you get them from?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000660">then,</span>
   <span id="f000661">mister,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000662">with his head cocked and his arms akimbo,</span>
   <span id="f000663">“what are you driving at?</span>
   <span id="f000664">Let’s have it straight,</span>
   <span id="f000665">now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">“It is straight enough.</span>
   <span id="f000667">I should like to know who sold you the geese which you supplied to the Alpha.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">“Well then,</span>
   <span id="f000669">I shan’t tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000670">So now!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000672">it is a matter of no importance;</span>
   <span id="f000673">but I don’t know why you should be so warm over such a trifle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">“Warm!</span>
   <span id="f000675">You’d be as warm,</span>
   <span id="f000676">maybe,</span>
   <span id="f000677">if you were as pestered as I am.</span>
   <span id="f000678">When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business;</span>
   <span id="f000679">but it’s ’Where are the geese?’ and ’Who did you sell the geese to?’ and ’What will you take for the geese?’ One would think they were the only geese in the world,</span>
   <span id="f000680">to hear the fuss that is made over them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000682">I have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries,” said Holmes carelessly.</span>
   <span id="f000683">“If you won’t tell us the bet is off,</span>
   <span id="f000684">that is all.</span>
   <span id="f000685">But I’m always ready to back my opinion on a matter of fowls,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and I have a fiver on it that the bird I ate is country bred.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000687">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000688">then,</span>
   <span id="f000689">you’ve lost your fiver,</span>
   <span id="f000690">for it’s town bred,” snapped the salesman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">“It’s nothing of the kind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">“I say it is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000693">“I don’t believe it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">“D’you think you know more about fowls than I,</span>
   <span id="f000695">who have handled them ever since I was a nipper?</span>
   <span id="f000696">I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000697">all those birds that went to the Alpha were town bred.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">“You’ll never persuade me to believe that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000699">“Will you bet,</span>
   <span id="f000700">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">“It’s merely taking your money,</span>
   <span id="f000702">for I know that I am right.</span>
   <span id="f000703">But I’ll have a sovereign on with you,</span>
   <span id="f000704">just to teach you not to be obstinate.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000705">The salesman chuckled grimly.</span>
   <span id="f000706">“Bring me the books,</span>
   <span id="f000707">Bill,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000708">The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great greasy-backed one,</span>
   <span id="f000709">laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">“Now then,</span>
   <span id="f000711">Mr.&#160;Cocksure,” said the salesman,</span>
   <span id="f000712">“I thought that I was out of geese,</span>
   <span id="f000713">but before I finish you’ll find that there is still one left in my shop.</span>
   <span id="f000714">You see this little book?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">“That’s the list of the folk from whom I buy.</span>
   <span id="f000717">D’you see?</span>
   <span id="f000718">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000719">then,</span>
   <span id="f000720">here on this page are the country folk,</span>
   <span id="f000721">and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger.</span>
   <span id="f000722">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000723">then!</span>
   <span id="f000724">You see this other page in red ink?</span>
   <span id="f000725">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000726">that is a list of my town suppliers.</span>
   <span id="f000727">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000728">look at that third name.</span>
   <span id="f000729">Just read it out to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">“Mrs.&#160;Oakshott,</span>
   <span id="f000731">117,</span>
   <span id="f000732">Brixton Road – 249,” read Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">“Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000734">Now turn that up in the ledger.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">Holmes turned to the page indicated.</span>
   <span id="f000736">“Here you are,</span>
   <span id="f000737">’Mrs.&#160;Oakshott,</span>
   <span id="f000738">117,</span>
   <span id="f000739">Brixton Road,</span>
   <span id="f000740">egg and poultry supplier.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000741">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000742">then,</span>
   <span id="f000743">what’s the last entry?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000744">“’December 22nd.</span>
   <span id="f000745">Twenty-four geese at 7s.</span>
   <span id="f000746">6d.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000747">“Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000748">There you are.</span>
   <span id="f000749">And underneath?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“’Sold to Mr.&#160;Windigate of the Alpha,</span>
   <span id="f000751">at 12s.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“What have you to say now?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined.</span>
   <span id="f000754">He drew a sovereign from his pocket and threw it down upon the slab,</span>
   <span id="f000755">turning away with the air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words.</span>
   <span id="f000756">A few yards off he stopped under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty,</span>
   <span id="f000757">noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000758">“When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the ’Pink ’un’ protruding out of his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000759">you can always draw him by a bet,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000760">“I daresay that if I had put 100 pounds down in front of him,</span>
   <span id="f000761">that man would not have given me such complete information as was drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a wager.</span>
   <span id="f000762">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000763">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000764">we are,</span>
   <span id="f000765">I fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000766">nearing the end of our quest,</span>
   <span id="f000767">and the only point which remains to be determined is whether we should go on to this Mrs.&#160;Oakshott to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000768">or whether we should reserve it for to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000769">It is clear from what that surly fellow said that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious about the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000770">and I should – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000771">His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out from the stall which we had just left.</span>
   <span id="f000772">Turning round we saw a little rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000773">while Breckinridge,</span>
   <span id="f000774">the salesman,</span>
   <span id="f000775">framed in the door of his stall,</span>
   <span id="f000776">was shaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000777">“I’ve had enough of you and your geese,” he shouted.</span>
   <span id="f000778">“I wish you were all at the devil together.</span>
   <span id="f000779">If you come pestering me any more with your silly talk I’ll set the dog at you.</span>
   <span id="f000780">You bring Mrs.&#160;Oakshott here and I’ll answer her,</span>
   <span id="f000781">but what have you to do with it?</span>
   <span id="f000782">Did I buy the geese off you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000783">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000784">but one of them was mine all the same,” whined the little man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000786">then,</span>
   <span id="f000787">ask Mrs.&#160;Oakshott for it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000788">“She told me to ask you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000789">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000790">you can ask the King of Proosia,</span>
   <span id="f000791">for all I care.</span>
   <span id="f000792">I’ve had enough of it.</span>
   <span id="f000793">Get out of this!” He rushed fiercely forward,</span>
   <span id="f000794">and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000795">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000796">this may save us a visit to Brixton Road,” whispered Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000797">“Come with me,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and we will see what is to be made of this fellow.” Striding through the scattered knots of people who lounged round the flaring stalls,</span>
   <span id="f000799">my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him upon the shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000800">He sprang round,</span>
   <span id="f000801">and I could see in the gas-light that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“Who are you,</span>
   <span id="f000803">then?</span>
   <span id="f000804">What do you want?” he asked in a quavering voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">“You will excuse me,” said Holmes blandly,</span>
   <span id="f000806">“but I could not help overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now.</span>
   <span id="f000807">I think that I could be of assistance to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">“You?</span>
   <span id="f000809">Who are you?</span>
   <span id="f000810">How could you know anything of the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">“My name is Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000812">It is my business to know what other people don’t know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">“But you can know nothing of this?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000814">“Excuse me,</span>
   <span id="f000815">I know everything of it.</span>
   <span id="f000816">You are endeavouring to trace some geese which were sold by Mrs.&#160;Oakshott,</span>
   <span id="f000817">of Brixton Road,</span>
   <span id="f000818">to a salesman named Breckinridge,</span>
   <span id="f000819">by him in turn to Mr.&#160;Windigate,</span>
   <span id="f000820">of the Alpha,</span>
   <span id="f000821">and by him to his club,</span>
   <span id="f000822">of which Mr.&#160;Henry Baker is a member.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000823">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000824">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000825">you are the very man whom I have longed to meet,” cried the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000826">“I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000827">Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing.</span>
   <span id="f000828">“In that case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this wind-swept market-place,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000829">“But pray tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000830">before we go farther,</span>
   <span id="f000831">who it is that I have the pleasure of assisting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000832">The man hesitated for an instant.</span>
   <span id="f000833">“My name is John Robinson,” he answered with a sidelong glance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000834">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000835">no;</span>
   <span id="f000836">the real name,” said Holmes sweetly.</span>
   <span id="f000837">“It is always awkward doing business with an alias.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000838">A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger.</span>
   <span id="f000839">“Well then,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000840">“my real name is James Ryder.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000841">“Precisely so.</span>
   <span id="f000842">Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan.</span>
   <span id="f000843">Pray step into the cab,</span>
   <span id="f000844">and I shall soon be able to tell you everything which you would wish to know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000845">The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with half-frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000846">half-hopeful eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000847">as one who is not sure whether he is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe.</span>
   <span id="f000848">Then he stepped into the cab,</span>
   <span id="f000849">and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker Street.</span>
   <span id="f000850">Nothing had been said during our drive,</span>
   <span id="f000851">but the high,</span>
   <span id="f000852">thin breathing of our new companion,</span>
   <span id="f000853">and the claspings and unclaspings of his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000854">spoke of the nervous tension within him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">“Here we are!” said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room.</span>
   <span id="f000856">“The fire looks very seasonable in this weather.</span>
   <span id="f000857">You look cold,</span>
   <span id="f000858">Mr.&#160;Ryder.</span>
   <span id="f000859">Pray take the basket-chair.</span>
   <span id="f000860">I will just put on my slippers before we settle this little matter of yours.</span>
   <span id="f000861">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000862">then!</span>
   <span id="f000863">You want to know what became of those geese?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000864">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000865">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000866">“Or rather,</span>
   <span id="f000867">I fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000868">of that goose.</span>
   <span id="f000869">It was one bird,</span>
   <span id="f000870">I imagine in which you were interested – white,</span>
   <span id="f000871">with a black bar across the tail.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">Ryder quivered with emotion.</span>
   <span id="f000873">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000874">sir,” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000875">“can you tell me where it went to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000876">“It came here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">“Here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000878">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000879">and a most remarkable bird it proved.</span>
   <span id="f000880">I don’t wonder that you should take an interest in it.</span>
   <span id="f000881">It laid an egg after it was dead – the bonniest,</span>
   <span id="f000882">brightest little blue egg that ever was seen.</span>
   <span id="f000883">I have it here in my museum.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000884">Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right hand.</span>
   <span id="f000885">Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue carbuncle,</span>
   <span id="f000886">which shone out like a star,</span>
   <span id="f000887">with a cold,</span>
   <span id="f000888">brilliant,</span>
   <span id="f000889">many-pointed radiance.</span>
   <span id="f000890">Ryder stood glaring with a drawn face,</span>
   <span id="f000891">uncertain whether to claim or to disown it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000892">“The game’s up,</span>
   <span id="f000893">Ryder,” said Holmes quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000894">“Hold up,</span>
   <span id="f000895">man,</span>
   <span id="f000896">or you’ll be into the fire!</span>
   <span id="f000897">Give him an arm back into his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000898">Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000899">He’s not got blood enough to go in for felony with impunity.</span>
   <span id="f000900">Give him a dash of brandy.</span>
   <span id="f000901">So!</span>
   <span id="f000902">Now he looks a little more human.</span>
   <span id="f000903">What a shrimp it is,</span>
   <span id="f000904">to be sure!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen,</span>
   <span id="f000906">but the brandy brought a tinge of colour into his cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and he sat staring with frightened eyes at his accuser.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000908">“I have almost every link in my hands,</span>
   <span id="f000909">and all the proofs which I could possibly need,</span>
   <span id="f000910">so there is little which you need tell me.</span>
   <span id="f000911">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000912">that little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete.</span>
   <span id="f000913">You had heard,</span>
   <span id="f000914">Ryder,</span>
   <span id="f000915">of this blue stone of the Countess of Morcar’s?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000916">“It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it,” said he in a crackling voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">“I see – her ladyship’s waiting-maid.</span>
   <span id="f000918">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000919">the temptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you,</span>
   <span id="f000920">as it has been for better men before you;</span>
   <span id="f000921">but you were not very scrupulous in the means you used.</span>
   <span id="f000922">It seems to me,</span>
   <span id="f000923">Ryder,</span>
   <span id="f000924">that there is the making of a very pretty villain in you.</span>
   <span id="f000925">You knew that this man Horner,</span>
   <span id="f000926">the plumber,</span>
   <span id="f000927">had been concerned in some such matter before,</span>
   <span id="f000928">and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him.</span>
   <span id="f000929">What did you do,</span>
   <span id="f000930">then?</span>
   <span id="f000931">You made some small job in my lady’s room – you and your confederate Cusack – and you managed that he should be the man sent for.</span>
   <span id="f000932">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000933">when he had left,</span>
   <span id="f000934">you rifled the jewel-case,</span>
   <span id="f000935">raised the alarm,</span>
   <span id="f000936">and had this unfortunate man arrested.</span>
   <span id="f000937">You then – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000938">Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companion’s knees.</span>
   <span id="f000939">“For God’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000940">have mercy!” he shrieked.</span>
   <span id="f000941">“Think of my father!</span>
   <span id="f000942">Of my mother!</span>
   <span id="f000943">It would break their hearts.</span>
   <span id="f000944">I never went wrong before!</span>
   <span id="f000945">I never will again.</span>
   <span id="f000946">I swear it.</span>
   <span id="f000947">I’ll swear it on a Bible.</span>
   <span id="f000948">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000949">don’t bring it into court!</span>
   <span id="f000950">For Christ’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000951">don’t!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000952">“Get back into your chair!” said Holmes sternly.</span>
   <span id="f000953">“It is very well to cringe and crawl now,</span>
   <span id="f000954">but you thought little enough of this poor Horner in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000955">“I will fly,</span>
   <span id="f000956">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000957">I will leave the country,</span>
   <span id="f000958">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000959">Then the charge against him will break down.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000960">“Hum!</span>
   <span id="f000961">We will talk about that.</span>
   <span id="f000962">And now let us hear a true account of the next act.</span>
   <span id="f000963">How came the stone into the goose,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and how came the goose into the open market?</span>
   <span id="f000965">Tell us the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000966">for there lies your only hope of safety.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000967">Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips.</span>
   <span id="f000968">“I will tell you it just as it happened,</span>
   <span id="f000969">sir,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000970">"When Horner had been arrested,</span>
   <span id="f000971">it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once,</span>
   <span id="f000972">for I did not know at what moment the police might not take it into their heads to search me and my room.</span>
   <span id="f000973">There was no place about the hotel where it would be safe.</span>
   <span id="f000974">I went out,</span>
   <span id="f000975">as if on some commission,</span>
   <span id="f000976">and I made for my sister’s house.</span>
   <span id="f000977">She had married a man named Oakshott,</span>
   <span id="f000978">and lived in Brixton Road,</span>
   <span id="f000979">where she fattened fowls for the market.</span>
   <span id="f000980">All the way there every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective;</span>
   <span id="f000981">and,</span>
   <span id="f000982">for all that it was a cold night,</span>
   <span id="f000983">the sweat was pouring down my face before I came to the Brixton Road.</span>
   <span id="f000984">My sister asked me what was the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000985">and why I was so pale;</span>
   <span id="f000986">but I told her that I had been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel.</span>
   <span id="f000987">Then I went into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000988">I had a friend once called Maudsley,</span>
   <span id="f000989">who went to the bad,</span>
   <span id="f000990">and has just been serving his time in Pentonville.</span>
   <span id="f000991">One day he had met me,</span>
   <span id="f000992">and fell into talk about the ways of thieves,</span>
   <span id="f000993">and how they could get rid of what they stole.</span>
   <span id="f000994">I knew that he would be true to me,</span>
   <span id="f000995">for I knew one or two things about him;</span>
   <span id="f000996">so I made up my mind to go right on to Kilburn,</span>
   <span id="f000997">where he lived,</span>
   <span id="f000998">and take him into my confidence.</span>
   <span id="f000999">He would show me how to turn the stone into money.</span>
   <span id="f001000">But how to get to him in safety?</span>
   <span id="f001001">I thought of the agonies I had gone through in coming from the hotel.</span>
   <span id="f001002">I might at any moment be seized and searched,</span>
   <span id="f001003">and there would be the stone in my waistcoat pocket.</span>
   <span id="f001004">I was leaning against the wall at the time and looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet,</span>
   <span id="f001005">and suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the best detective that ever lived.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001006">My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the pick of her geese for a Christmas present,</span>
   <span id="f001007">and I knew that she was always as good as her word.</span>
   <span id="f001008">I would take my goose now,</span>
   <span id="f001009">and in it I would carry my stone to Kilburn.</span>
   <span id="f001010">There was a little shed in the yard,</span>
   <span id="f001011">and behind this I drove one of the birds – a fine big one,</span>
   <span id="f001012">white,</span>
   <span id="f001013">with a barred tail.</span>
   <span id="f001014">I caught it,</span>
   <span id="f001015">and prying its bill open,</span>
   <span id="f001016">I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger could reach.</span>
   <span id="f001017">The bird gave a gulp,</span>
   <span id="f001018">and I felt the stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop.</span>
   <span id="f001019">But the creature flapped and struggled,</span>
   <span id="f001020">and out came my sister to know what was the matter.</span>
   <span id="f001021">As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered off among the others.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001022">’Whatever were you doing with that bird,</span>
   <span id="f001023">Jem?’ says she.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001024">’Well,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f001025">’you said you’d give me one for Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f001026">and I was feeling which was the fattest.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001027">’Oh,’ says she,</span>
   <span id="f001028">’we’ve set yours aside for you – Jem’s bird,</span>
   <span id="f001029">we call it.</span>
   <span id="f001030">It’s the big white one over yonder.</span>
   <span id="f001031">There’s twenty-six of them,</span>
   <span id="f001032">which makes one for you,</span>
   <span id="f001033">and one for us,</span>
   <span id="f001034">and two dozen for the market.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001035">’Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f001036">Maggie,’ says I;</span>
   <span id="f001037">’but if it is all the same to you,</span>
   <span id="f001038">I’d rather have that one I was handling just now.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001039">’The other is a good three pound heavier,’ said she,</span>
   <span id="f001040">’and we fattened it expressly for you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001041">’Never mind.</span>
   <span id="f001042">I’ll have the other,</span>
   <span id="f001043">and I’ll take it now,’ said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001044">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001045">just as you like,’ said she,</span>
   <span id="f001046">a little huffed.</span>
   <span id="f001047">’Which is it you want,</span>
   <span id="f001048">then?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001049">’That white one with the barred tail,</span>
   <span id="f001050">right in the middle of the flock.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001051">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001052">very well.</span>
   <span id="f001053">Kill it and take it with you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001054">Well,</span>
   <span id="f001055">I did what she said,</span>
   <span id="f001056">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001057">and I carried the bird all the way to Kilburn.</span>
   <span id="f001058">I told my pal what I had done,</span>
   <span id="f001059">for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to.</span>
   <span id="f001060">He laughed until he choked,</span>
   <span id="f001061">and we got a knife and opened the goose.</span>
   <span id="f001062">My heart turned to water,</span>
   <span id="f001063">for there was no sign of the stone,</span>
   <span id="f001064">and I knew that some terrible mistake had occurred.</span>
   <span id="f001065">I left the bird,</span>
   <span id="f001066">rushed back to my sister’s,</span>
   <span id="f001067">and hurried into the back yard.</span>
   <span id="f001068">There was not a bird to be seen there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001069">’Where are they all,</span>
   <span id="f001070">Maggie?’ I cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001071">’Gone to the dealer’s,</span>
   <span id="f001072">Jem.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001073">’Which dealer’s?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001074">’Breckinridge,</span>
   <span id="f001075">of Covent Garden.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001076">’But was there another with a barred tail?’ I asked,</span>
   <span id="f001077">’the same as the one I chose?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001078">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001079">Jem;</span>
   <span id="f001080">there were two barred-tailed ones,</span>
   <span id="f001081">and I could never tell them apart.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001082">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001083">then,</span>
   <span id="f001084">of course I saw it all,</span>
   <span id="f001085">and I ran off as hard as my feet would carry me to this man Breckinridge;</span>
   <span id="f001086">but he had sold the lot at once,</span>
   <span id="f001087">and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone.</span>
   <span id="f001088">You heard him yourselves to-night.</span>
   <span id="f001089">Well,</span>
   <span id="f001090">he has always answered me like that.</span>
   <span id="f001091">My sister thinks that I am going mad.</span>
   <span id="f001092">Sometimes I think that I am myself.</span>
   <span id="f001093">And now – and now I am myself a branded thief,</span>
   <span id="f001094">without ever having touched the wealth for which I sold my character.</span>
   <span id="f001095">God help me!</span>
   <span id="f001096">God help me!” He burst into convulsive sobbing,</span>
   <span id="f001097">with his face buried in his hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001098">There was a long silence,</span>
   <span id="f001099">broken only by his heavy breathing and by the measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes’ finger-tips upon the edge of the table.</span>
   <span id="f001100">Then my friend rose and threw open the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001101">“Get out!” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001102">“What,</span>
   <span id="f001103">sir!</span>
   <span id="f001104">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001105">Heaven bless you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001106">“No more words.</span>
   <span id="f001107">Get out!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001108">And no more words were needed.</span>
   <span id="f001109">There was a rush,</span>
   <span id="f001110">a clatter upon the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f001111">the bang of a door,</span>
   <span id="f001112">and the crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001113">“After all,</span>
   <span id="f001114">Watson,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001115">reaching up his hand for his clay pipe,</span>
   <span id="f001116">“I am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies.</span>
   <span id="f001117">If Horner were in danger it would be another thing;</span>
   <span id="f001118">but this fellow will not appear against him,</span>
   <span id="f001119">and the case must collapse.</span>
   <span id="f001120">I suppose that I am commuting a felony,</span>
   <span id="f001121">but it is just possible that I am saving a soul.</span>
   <span id="f001122">This fellow will not go wrong again;</span>
   <span id="f001123">he is too terribly frightened.</span>
   <span id="f001124">Send him to gaol now,</span>
   <span id="f001125">and you make him a gaol-bird for life.</span>
   <span id="f001126">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f001127">it is the season of forgiveness.</span>
   <span id="f001128">Chance has put in our way a most singular and whimsical problem,</span>
   <span id="f001129">and its solution is its own reward.</span>
   <span id="f001130">If you will have the goodness to touch the bell,</span>
   <span id="f001131">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f001132">we will begin another investigation,</span>
   <span id="f001133">in which,</span>
   <span id="f001134">also a bird will be the chief feature.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

