<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />Carl Vonnoh</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000004">Clocks</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000005">by<br />Jerome K. Jerome</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000006">There are two kinds of clocks.</span>
   <span id="f000007">There is the clock that is always wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and that knows it is wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and glories in it;</span>
   <span id="f000010">and there is the clock that is always right – except when you rely upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and then it is more wrong than you would think a clock <em>could</em> be in a civilized country.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">I remember a clock of this latter type,</span>
   <span id="f000013">that we had in the house when I was a boy,</span>
   <span id="f000014">routing us all up at three o’clock one winter’s morning.</span>
   <span id="f000015">We had finished breakfast at ten minutes to four,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and I got to school a little after five,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and sat down on the step outside and cried,</span>
   <span id="f000018">because I thought the world had come to an end;</span>
   <span id="f000019">everything was so death-like!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">The man who can live in the same house with one of these clocks,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and not endanger his chance of heaven about once a month by standing up and telling it what he thinks of it,</span>
   <span id="f000022">is either a dangerous rival to that old established firm,</span>
   <span id="f000023">Job,</span>
   <span id="f000024">or else he does not know enough bad language to make it worth his while to start saying anything at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">The great dream of its life is to lure you on into trying to catch a train by it.</span>
   <span id="f000026">For weeks and weeks it will keep the most perfect time.</span>
   <span id="f000027">If there were any difference in time between that clock and the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000028">you would be convinced it was the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000029">not the clock,</span>
   <span id="f000030">that wanted seeing to.</span>
   <span id="f000031">You feel that if that clock happened to get a quarter of a second fast,</span>
   <span id="f000032">or the eighth of an instant slow,</span>
   <span id="f000033">it would break its heart and die.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">It is in this spirit of child-like faith in its integrity that,</span>
   <span id="f000035">one morning,</span>
   <span id="f000036">you gather your family around you in the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000037">kiss your children,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and afterward wipe your jammy mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000039">poke your finger in the baby’s eye,</span>
   <span id="f000040">promise not to forget to order the coals,</span>
   <span id="f000041">wave at last fond adieu with the umbrella,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and depart for the railway-station.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">I never have been quite able to decide,</span>
   <span id="f000044">myself,</span>
   <span id="f000045">which is the more irritating to run two miles at the top of your speed,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and then to find,</span>
   <span id="f000047">when you reach the station,</span>
   <span id="f000048">that you are three-quarters of an hour too early;</span>
   <span id="f000049">or to stroll along leisurely the whole way,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and dawdle about outside the booking-office,</span>
   <span id="f000051">talking to some local idiot,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and then to swagger carelessly on to the platform,</span>
   <span id="f000053">just in time to see the train go out!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">As for the other class of clocks – the common or always-wrong clocks – they are harmless enough.</span>
   <span id="f000055">You wind them up at the proper intervals,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and once or twice a week you put them right and “regulate” them,</span>
   <span id="f000057">as you call it</span>
   <span id="f000058">(and you might just as well try to “regulate” a London tom-cat).</span>
   <span id="f000059">But you do all this,</span>
   <span id="f000060">not from any selfish motives,</span>
   <span id="f000061">but from a sense of duty to the clock itself.</span>
   <span id="f000062">You want to feel that,</span>
   <span id="f000063">whatever may happen,</span>
   <span id="f000064">you have done the right thing by it,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and that no blame can attach to you.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">So far as looking to it for any return is concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000067">that you never dream of doing,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and consequently you are not disappointed.</span>
   <span id="f000069">You ask what the time is,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and the girl replies:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000072">the clock in the dining-room says a quarter past two.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">But you are not deceived by this.</span>
   <span id="f000074">You know that,</span>
   <span id="f000075">as a matter of fact,</span>
   <span id="f000076">it must be somewhere between nine and ten in the evening;</span>
   <span id="f000077">and,</span>
   <span id="f000078">remembering that you noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000079">as a curious circumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000080">that the clock was only forty minutes past four,</span>
   <span id="f000081">hours ago,</span>
   <span id="f000082">you mildly admire its energies and resources,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and wonder how it does it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">I myself possess a clock that for complicated unconventionality and light-hearted independence,</span>
   <span id="f000085">could,</span>
   <span id="f000086">I should think,</span>
   <span id="f000087">give points to anything yet discovered in the chronometrical line.</span>
   <span id="f000088">As a mere time-piece,</span>
   <span id="f000089">it leaves much to be desired;</span>
   <span id="f000090">but,</span>
   <span id="f000091">considered as a self-acting conundrum,</span>
   <span id="f000092">it is full of interest and variety.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">I heard of a man once who had a clock that he used to say was of no good to any one except himself,</span>
   <span id="f000094">because he was the only man who understood it.</span>
   <span id="f000095">He said it was an excellent clock,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and one that you could thoroughly depend upon;</span>
   <span id="f000097">but you wanted to know it – to have studied its system.</span>
   <span id="f000098">An outsider might be easily misled by it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“For instance,” he would say,</span>
   <span id="f000100">“when it strikes fifteen,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and the hands point to twenty minutes past eleven,</span>
   <span id="f000102">I know it is a quarter to eight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">His acquaintanceship with that clock must certainly have given him an advantage over the cursory observer!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">But the great charm about my clock is its reliable uncertainty.</span>
   <span id="f000105">It works on no method whatever;</span>
   <span id="f000106">it is a pure emotionalist.</span>
   <span id="f000107">One day it will be quite frolicsome,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and gain three hours in the course of the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and think nothing of it;</span>
   <span id="f000110">and the next day it will wish it were dead,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and be hardly able to drag itself along,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and lose two hours out of every four,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and stop altogether in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000114">too miserable to do anything;</span>
   <span id="f000115">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000116">getting cheerful once more toward evening,</span>
   <span id="f000117">will start off again of its own accord.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">I do not care to talk much about this clock;</span>
   <span id="f000119">because when I tell the simple truth concerning it,</span>
   <span id="f000120">people think I am exaggerating.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">It is very discouraging to find,</span>
   <span id="f000122">when you are straining every nerve to tell the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000123">that people do not believe you,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and fancy that you are exaggerating.</span>
   <span id="f000125">It makes you feel inclined to go and exaggerate on purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000126">just to show them the difference.</span>
   <span id="f000127">I know I often feel tempted to do so myself – it is my early training that saves me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">We should always be very careful never to give way to exaggeration;</span>
   <span id="f000129">it is a habit that grows upon one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">And it is such a vulgar habit,</span>
   <span id="f000131">too.</span>
   <span id="f000132">In the old times,</span>
   <span id="f000133">when poets and dry-goods salesmen were the only people who exaggerated,</span>
   <span id="f000134">there was something clever and <em>distingue</em> about a reputation for “a tendency to over,</span>
   <span id="f000135">rather than to under-estimate the mere bald facts.” But everybody exaggerates nowadays.</span>
   <span id="f000136">The art of exaggeration is no longer regarded as an “extra” in the modern bill of education;</span>
   <span id="f000137">it is an essential requirement,</span>
   <span id="f000138">held to be most needful for the battle of life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">The whole world exaggerates.</span>
   <span id="f000140">It exaggerates everything,</span>
   <span id="f000141">from the yearly number of bicycles sold to the yearly number of heathens converted – into the hope of salvation and more whiskey.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Exaggeration is the basis of our trade,</span>
   <span id="f000143">the fallow-field of our art and literature,</span>
   <span id="f000144">the groundwork of our social life,</span>
   <span id="f000145">the foundation of our political existence.</span>
   <span id="f000146">As schoolboys,</span>
   <span id="f000147">we exaggerate our fights and our marks and our fathers’ debts.</span>
   <span id="f000148">As men,</span>
   <span id="f000149">we exaggerate our wares,</span>
   <span id="f000150">we exaggerate our feelings,</span>
   <span id="f000151">we exaggerate our incomes – except to the tax-collector,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and to him we exaggerate our “outgoings”;</span>
   <span id="f000153">we exaggerate our virtues;</span>
   <span id="f000154">we even exaggerate our vices,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and,</span>
   <span id="f000156">being in reality the mildest of men,</span>
   <span id="f000157">pretend we are dare-devil scamps.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">We have sunk so low now that we try to <em>act</em> our exaggerations,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and to live up to our lies.</span>
   <span id="f000160">We call it “keeping up appearances;” and no more bitter phrase could,</span>
   <span id="f000161">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000162">have been invented to describe our childish folly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">If we possess a hundred pounds a year,</span>
   <span id="f000164">do we not call it two?</span>
   <span id="f000165">Our larder may be low and our grates be chill,</span>
   <span id="f000166">but we are happy if the “world”</span>
   <span id="f000167">(six acquaintances and a prying neighbor)</span>
   <span id="f000168">gives us credit for one hundred and fifty.</span>
   <span id="f000169">And,</span>
   <span id="f000170">when we have five hundred,</span>
   <span id="f000171">we talk of a thousand,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and the all-important and beloved “world”</span>
   <span id="f000173">(sixteen friends now,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and two of them carriage-folks!)</span>
   <span id="f000175">agree that we really must be spending seven hundred,</span>
   <span id="f000176">or at all events,</span>
   <span id="f000177">running into debt up to that figure;</span>
   <span id="f000178">but the butcher and baker,</span>
   <span id="f000179">who have gone into the matter with the housemaid,</span>
   <span id="f000180">know better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">After awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000182">having learned the trick,</span>
   <span id="f000183">we launch out boldly and spend like Indian Princes – or rather <em>seem</em> to spend;</span>
   <span id="f000184">for we know,</span>
   <span id="f000185">by this time,</span>
   <span id="f000186">how to purchase the seeming with the seeming,</span>
   <span id="f000187">how to buy the appearance of wealth with the appearance of cash.</span>
   <span id="f000188">And the dear old world – Beelzebub bless it!</span>
   <span id="f000189">for it is his own child,</span>
   <span id="f000190">sure enough;</span>
   <span id="f000191">there is no mistaking the likeness,</span>
   <span id="f000192">it has all his funny little ways – gathers round,</span>
   <span id="f000193">applauding and laughing at the lie,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and sharing in the cheat,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and gloating over the thought of the blow that it knows must sooner or later fall on us from the Thor-like hammer of Truth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">And all goes merry as a witches’ frolic – until the gray morning dawns.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">Truth and fact are old-fashioned and out-of-date,</span>
   <span id="f000198">my friends,</span>
   <span id="f000199">fit only for the dull and vulgar to live by.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000201">not reality,</span>
   <span id="f000202">is what the clever dog grasps at in these clever days.</span>
   <span id="f000203">We spurn the dull-brown solid earth;</span>
   <span id="f000204">we build our lives and homes in the fair-seeming rainbow-land of shadow and chimera.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">To ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000206">sleeping and waking there,</span>
   <span id="f000207"><em>behind</em> the rainbow,</span>
   <span id="f000208">there is no beauty in the house;</span>
   <span id="f000209">only a chill damp mist in every room,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and,</span>
   <span id="f000211">over all,</span>
   <span id="f000212">a haunting fear of the hour when the gilded clouds will melt away,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and let us fall – somewhat heavily,</span>
   <span id="f000214">no doubt – upon the hard world underneath.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">But,</span>
   <span id="f000216">there!</span>
   <span id="f000217">of what matter is <em>our</em> misery,</span>
   <span id="f000218"><em>our</em> terror?</span>
   <span id="f000219">To the stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000220">our home appears fair and bright.</span>
   <span id="f000221">The workers in the fields below look up and envy us our abode of glory and delight!</span>
   <span id="f000222">If <em>they</em> think it pleasant,</span>
   <span id="f000223">surely <em>we</em> should be content.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Have we not been taught to live for others and not for ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and are we not acting up bravely to the teaching – in this most curious method?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000227">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000228">we are self-sacrificing enough,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and loyal enough in our devotion to this new-crowned king,</span>
   <span id="f000230">the child of Prince Imposture and Princess Pretense.</span>
   <span id="f000231">Never before was despot so blindly worshiped!</span>
   <span id="f000232">Never had earthly sovereign yet such world-wide sway!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">Man,</span>
   <span id="f000234">if he would live,</span>
   <span id="f000235"><em>must</em> worship.</span>
   <span id="f000236">He looks around,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and what to him,</span>
   <span id="f000238">within the vision of his life,</span>
   <span id="f000239">is the greatest and the best,</span>
   <span id="f000240">that he falls down and does reverence to.</span>
   <span id="f000241">To him whose eyes have opened on the nineteenth century,</span>
   <span id="f000242">what nobler image can the universe produce than the figure of Falsehood in stolen robes?</span>
   <span id="f000243">It is cunning and brazen and hollow-hearted,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and it realizes his souls ideal,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and he falls and kisses its feet,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and clings to its skinny knees,</span>
   <span id="f000247">swearing fealty to it for evermore!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000249">he is a mighty monarch,</span>
   <span id="f000250">bladder-bodied King Humbug!</span>
   <span id="f000251">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000252">let us build up temples of hewn shadows wherein we may adore him,</span>
   <span id="f000253">safe from the light.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Let us raise him aloft upon our Brummagem shields.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Long live our coward,</span>
   <span id="f000256">falsehearted chief!</span>
   <span id="f000257">– fit leader for such soldiers as we!</span>
   <span id="f000258">Long live the Lord-of-Lies,</span>
   <span id="f000259">anointed!</span>
   <span id="f000260">Long live poor King Appearances,</span>
   <span id="f000261">to whom all mankind bows the knee!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">But we must hold him aloft very carefully,</span>
   <span id="f000263">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000264">my brother warriors!</span>
   <span id="f000265">He needs much “keeping up.” He has no bones and sinews of his own,</span>
   <span id="f000266">the poor old flimsy fellow!</span>
   <span id="f000267">If we take our hands from him,</span>
   <span id="f000268">he will fall a heap of worn-out rags,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and the angry wind will whirl him away,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and leave us forlorn.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000272">let us spend our lives keeping him up,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and serving him,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and making him great – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000275">evermore puffed out with air and nothingness – until he burst,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and we along with him!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">Burst one day he must,</span>
   <span id="f000278">as it is in the nature of bubbles to burst,</span>
   <span id="f000279">especially when they grow big.</span>
   <span id="f000280">Meanwhile,</span>
   <span id="f000281">he still reigns over us,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and the world grows more and more a world of pretense and exaggeration and lies;</span>
   <span id="f000283">and he who pretends and exaggerates and lies the most successfully,</span>
   <span id="f000284">is the greatest of us all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">The world is a gingerbread fair,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and we all stand outside our booths and point to the gorgeous-colored pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and beat the big drum and brag.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Brag!</span>
   <span id="f000289">brag!</span>
   <span id="f000290">Life is one great game of brag!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“Buy my soap,</span>
   <span id="f000292">oh ye people,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and ye will never look old,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and the hair will grow again on your bald places,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and ye will never be poor or unhappy again;</span>
   <span id="f000296">and mine is the only true soap.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000298">beware of spurious imitations!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“Buy my lotion,</span>
   <span id="f000300">all ye that suffer from pains in the head,</span>
   <span id="f000301">or the stomach,</span>
   <span id="f000302">or the feet,</span>
   <span id="f000303">or that have broken arms,</span>
   <span id="f000304">or broken hearts,</span>
   <span id="f000305">or objectionable mothers-in-law;</span>
   <span id="f000306">and drink one bottle a day,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and all your troubles will be ended.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Come to my church,</span>
   <span id="f000309">all ye that want to go to Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and buy my penny weekly guide,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and pay my pew-rates;</span>
   <span id="f000312">and,</span>
   <span id="f000313">pray ye,</span>
   <span id="f000314">have nothing to do with my misguided brother over the road.</span>
   <span id="f000315"><em>This</em> is the only safe way!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000317">vote for me,</span>
   <span id="f000318">my noble and intelligent electors,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and send our party into power,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and the world shall be a new place,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and there shall be no sin or sorrow any more!</span>
   <span id="f000322">And each free and independent voter shall have a bran new Utopia made on purpose for him,</span>
   <span id="f000323">according to his own ideas,</span>
   <span id="f000324">with a good-sized,</span>
   <span id="f000325">extra-unpleasant purgatory attached,</span>
   <span id="f000326">to which he can send everybody he does not like.</span>
   <span id="f000327">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000328">do not miss this chance!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000330">listen to my philosophy,</span>
   <span id="f000331">it is the best and deepest.</span>
   <span id="f000332">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000333">hear my songs,</span>
   <span id="f000334">they are the sweetest.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000336">buy my pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000337">they alone are true art.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000339">read my books,</span>
   <span id="f000340">they are the finest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000342"><em>I</em> am the greatest cheesemonger,</span>
   <span id="f000343"><em>I</em> am the greatest soldier,</span>
   <span id="f000344"><em>I</em> am the greatest statesman,</span>
   <span id="f000345"><em>I</em> am the greatest poet,</span>
   <span id="f000346"><em>I</em> am the greatest showman,</span>
   <span id="f000347"><em>I</em> am the greatest mountebank,</span>
   <span id="f000348"><em>I</em> am the greatest editor,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and <em>I</em> am the greatest patriot.</span>
   <span id="f000350"><em>We</em> are the greatest nation.</span>
   <span id="f000351"><em>We</em> are the only good people.</span>
   <span id="f000352"><em>Ours</em> is the only true religion.</span>
   <span id="f000353">Bah!</span>
   <span id="f000354">how we all yell!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">How we all brag and bounce,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and beat the drum and shout;</span>
   <span id="f000357">and nobody believes a word we utter;</span>
   <span id="f000358">and the people ask one another,</span>
   <span id="f000359">saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“How can we tell who is the greatest and the cleverest among all these shrieking braggarts?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000361">And they answer:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">“There is none great or clever.</span>
   <span id="f000363">The great and clever men are not here;</span>
   <span id="f000364">there is no place for them in this pandemonium of charlatans and quacks.</span>
   <span id="f000365">The men you see here are crowing cocks.</span>
   <span id="f000366">We suppose the greatest and the best of <em>them</em> are they who crow the loudest and the longest;</span>
   <span id="f000367">that is the only test of <em>their</em> merits.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">Therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000369">what is left for us to do,</span>
   <span id="f000370">but to crow?</span>
   <span id="f000371">And the best and greatest of us all,</span>
   <span id="f000372">is he who crows the loudest and the longest on this little dunghill that we call our world!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000374">I was going to tell you about our clock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">It was my wife’s idea,</span>
   <span id="f000376">getting it,</span>
   <span id="f000377">in the first instance.</span>
   <span id="f000378">We had been to dinner at the Buggles’,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and Buggles had just bought a clock – “picked it up in Essex,” was the way he described the transaction.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Buggles is always going about “picking up” things.</span>
   <span id="f000381">He will stand before an old carved bedstead,</span>
   <span id="f000382">weighing about three tons,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“Yes – pretty little thing!</span>
   <span id="f000385">I picked it up in Holland;” as though he had found it by the roadside,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and slipped it into his umbrella when nobody was looking!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">Buggles was rather full of this clock.</span>
   <span id="f000388">It was of the good old-fashioned “grandfather” type.</span>
   <span id="f000389">It stood eight feet high,</span>
   <span id="f000390">in a carved-oak case,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and had a deep,</span>
   <span id="f000392">sonorous,</span>
   <span id="f000393">solemn tick,</span>
   <span id="f000394">that made a pleasant accompaniment to the after-dinner chat,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and seemed to fill the room with an air of homely dignity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">We discussed the clock,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and Buggles said how he loved the sound of its slow,</span>
   <span id="f000398">grave tick;</span>
   <span id="f000399">and how,</span>
   <span id="f000400">when all the house was still,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and he and it were sitting up alone together,</span>
   <span id="f000402">it seemed like some wise old friend talking to him,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and telling him about the old days and the old ways of thought,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and the old life and the old people.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">The clock impressed my wife very much.</span>
   <span id="f000406">She was very thoughtful all the way home,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and,</span>
   <span id="f000408">as we went upstairs to our flat,</span>
   <span id="f000409">she said,</span>
   <span id="f000410">“Why could not we have a clock like that?” She said it would seem like having some one in the house to take care of us all – she should fancy it was looking after baby!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">I have a man in Northamptonshire from whom I buy old furniture now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and to him I applied.</span>
   <span id="f000413">He answered by return to say that he had got exactly the very thing I wanted.</span>
   <span id="f000414">(He always has.</span>
   <span id="f000415">I am very lucky in this respect.)</span>
   <span id="f000416">It was the quaintest and most old-fashioned clock he had come across for a long while,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and he enclosed photograph and full particulars;</span>
   <span id="f000418">should he send it up?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">From the photograph and the particulars,</span>
   <span id="f000420">it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000421">as he said,</span>
   <span id="f000422">the very thing,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and I told him,</span>
   <span id="f000424">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000425">send it up at once.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">Three days afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000427">there came a knock at the door – there had been other knocks at the door before this,</span>
   <span id="f000428">of course;</span>
   <span id="f000429">but I am dealing merely with the history of the clock.</span>
   <span id="f000430">The girl said a couple of men were outside,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and wanted to see me,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and I went to them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">I found they were Pickford’s carriers,</span>
   <span id="f000434">and glancing at the way-bill,</span>
   <span id="f000435">I saw that it was my clock that they had brought,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and I said,</span>
   <span id="f000437">airily,</span>
   <span id="f000438">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000439">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000440">it’s quite right;</span>
   <span id="f000441">bring it up!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">They said they were very sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000443">but that was just the difficulty.</span>
   <span id="f000444">They could not get it up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">I went down with them,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and wedged securely across the second landing of the staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000447">I found a box which I should have judged to be the original case in which Cleopatra’s Needle came over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">They said that was my clock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">I brought down a chopper and a crowbar,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and we sent out and collected in two extra hired ruffians and the five of us worked away for half an hour and got the clock out;</span>
   <span id="f000451">after which the traffic up and down the staircase was resumed,</span>
   <span id="f000452">much to the satisfaction of the other tenants.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">We then got the clock upstairs and put it together,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and I fixed it in the corner of the dining-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">At first it exhibited a strong desire to topple over and fall on people,</span>
   <span id="f000456">but by the liberal use of nails and screws and bits of firewood,</span>
   <span id="f000457">I made life in the same room with it possible,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000459">being exhausted,</span>
   <span id="f000460">I had my wounds dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and went to bed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">In the middle of the night my wife woke me up in a great state of alarm,</span>
   <span id="f000463">to say that the clock had just struck thirteen,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and who did I think was going to die?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">I said I did not know,</span>
   <span id="f000466">but hoped it might be the next-door dog.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">My wife said she had a presentiment it meant baby.</span>
   <span id="f000468">There was no comforting her;</span>
   <span id="f000469">she cried herself to sleep again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">During the course of the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000471">I succeeded in persuading her that she must have made a mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and she consented to smile once more.</span>
   <span id="f000473">In the afternoon the clock struck thirteen again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">This renewed all her fears.</span>
   <span id="f000475">She was convinced now that both baby and I were doomed,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and that she would be left a childless widow.</span>
   <span id="f000477">I tried to treat the matter as a joke,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and this only made her more wretched.</span>
   <span id="f000479">She said that she could see I really felt as she did,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and was only pretending to be light-hearted for her sake,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and she said she would try and bear it bravely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">The person she chiefly blamed was Buggles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">In the night the clock gave us another warning,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and my wife accepted it for her Aunt Maria,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and seemed resigned.</span>
   <span id="f000486">She wished,</span>
   <span id="f000487">however,</span>
   <span id="f000488">that I had never had the clock,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and wondered when,</span>
   <span id="f000490">if ever,</span>
   <span id="f000491">I should get cured of my absurd craze for filling the house with tomfoolery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">The next day the clock struck thirteen four times and this cheered her up.</span>
   <span id="f000493">She said that if we were all going to die,</span>
   <span id="f000494">it did not so much matter.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Most likely there was a fever or a plague coming,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and we should all be taken together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">She was quite light-hearted over it!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000498">After that the clock went on and killed every friend and relation we had,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and then it started on the neighbors.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000500">It struck thirteen all day long for months,</span>
   <span id="f000501">until we were sick of slaughter,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and there could not have been a human being left alive for miles around.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">Then it turned over a new leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000504">and gave up murdering folks,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and took to striking mere harmless thirty-nines and forty-ones.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Its favorite number now is thirty-two,</span>
   <span id="f000507">but once a day it strikes forty-nine.</span>
   <span id="f000508">It never strikes more than forty-nine.</span>
   <span id="f000509">I don’t know why – I have never been able to understand why – but it doesn’t.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000510">It does not strike at regular intervals,</span>
   <span id="f000511">but when it feels it wants to and would be better for it.</span>
   <span id="f000512">Sometimes it strikes three or four times within the same hour,</span>
   <span id="f000513">and at other times it will go for half-a-day without striking at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">He is an odd old fellow!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">I have thought now and then of having him “seen to,” and made to keep regular hours and be respectable;</span>
   <span id="f000516">but,</span>
   <span id="f000517">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000518">I seem to have grown to love him as he is with his daring mockery of Time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">He certainly has not much respect for it.</span>
   <span id="f000520">He seems to go out of his way almost to openly insult it.</span>
   <span id="f000521">He calls half-past two thirty-eight o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and in twenty minutes from then he says it is one!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">Is it that he really has grown to feel contempt for his master,</span>
   <span id="f000524">and wishes to show it?</span>
   <span id="f000525">They say no man is a hero to his valet;</span>
   <span id="f000526">may it be that even stony-face Time himself is but a short-lived,</span>
   <span id="f000527">puny mortal – a little greater than some others,</span>
   <span id="f000528">that is all – to the dim eyes of this old servant of his?</span>
   <span id="f000529">Has he,</span>
   <span id="f000530">ticking,</span>
   <span id="f000531">ticking,</span>
   <span id="f000532">all these years,</span>
   <span id="f000533">come at last to see into the littleness of that Time that looms so great to our awed human eyes?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">Is he saying,</span>
   <span id="f000535">as he grimly laughs,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and strikes his thirty-fives and forties:</span>
   <span id="f000537">“Bah!</span>
   <span id="f000538">I know you,</span>
   <span id="f000539">Time,</span>
   <span id="f000540">godlike and dread though you seem.</span>
   <span id="f000541">What are you but a phantom – a dream – like the rest of us here?</span>
   <span id="f000542">Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000543">less,</span>
   <span id="f000544">for you will pass away and be no more.</span>
   <span id="f000545">Fear him not,</span>
   <span id="f000546">immortal men.</span>
   <span id="f000547">Time is but the shadow of the world upon the background of Eternity!”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

