<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Chiquito Crasto</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Minister’s Black Veil</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Nathaniel Hawthorne</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">The sexton stood in the porch of Milford meeting-house,</span>
   <span id="f000008">pulling busily at the bell-rope.</span>
   <span id="f000009">The old people of the village came stooping along the street.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Children,</span>
   <span id="f000011">with bright faces,</span>
   <span id="f000012">tripped merrily beside their parents,</span>
   <span id="f000013">or mimicked a graver gait,</span>
   <span id="f000014">in the conscious dignity of their Sunday clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Spruce bachelors looked sidelong at the pretty maidens,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and fancied that the Sabbath sunshine made them prettier than on week days.</span>
   <span id="f000017">When the throng had mostly streamed into the porch,</span>
   <span id="f000018">the sexton began to toll the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000019">keeping his eye on the Reverend Mr.&#160;Hooper’s door.</span>
   <span id="f000020">The first glimpse of the clergyman’s figure was the signal for the bell to cease its summons.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">“But what has good Parson Hooper got upon his face?” cried the sexton in astonishment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">All within hearing immediately turned about,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and beheld the semblance of Mr.&#160;Hooper,</span>
   <span id="f000024">pacing slowly his meditative way towards the meetinghouse.</span>
   <span id="f000025">With one accord they started,</span>
   <span id="f000026">expressing more wonder than if some strange minister were coming to dust the cushions of Mr.&#160;Hooper’s pulpit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">“Are you sure it is our parson?” inquired Goodman Gray of the sexton.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">“Of a certainty it is good Mr.&#160;Hooper,” replied the sexton.</span>
   <span id="f000029">“He was to have exchanged pulpits with Parson Shute,</span>
   <span id="f000030">of Westbury;</span>
   <span id="f000031">but Parson Shute sent to excuse himself yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000032">being to preach a funeral sermon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">The cause of so much amazement may appear sufficiently slight.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Mr.&#160;Hooper,</span>
   <span id="f000035">a gentlemanly person,</span>
   <span id="f000036">of about thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000037">though still a bachelor,</span>
   <span id="f000038">was dressed with due clerical neatness,</span>
   <span id="f000039">as if a careful wife had starched his band,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and brushed the weekly dust from his Sunday’s garb.</span>
   <span id="f000041">There was but one thing remarkable in his appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Swathed about his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and hanging down over his face,</span>
   <span id="f000044">so low as to be shaken by his breath,</span>
   <span id="f000045">Mr.&#160;Hooper had on a black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000046">On a nearer view it seemed to consist of two folds of crape,</span>
   <span id="f000047">which entirely concealed his features,</span>
   <span id="f000048">except the mouth and chin,</span>
   <span id="f000049">but probably did not intercept his sight,</span>
   <span id="f000050">further than to give a darkened aspect to all living and inanimate things.</span>
   <span id="f000051">With this gloomy shade before him,</span>
   <span id="f000052">good Mr.&#160;Hooper walked onward,</span>
   <span id="f000053">at a slow and quiet pace,</span>
   <span id="f000054">stooping somewhat,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and looking on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000056">as is customary with abstracted men,</span>
   <span id="f000057">yet nodding kindly to those of his parishioners who still waited on the meeting-house steps.</span>
   <span id="f000058">But so wonder-struck were they that his greeting hardly met with a return.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“I can’t really feel as if good Mr.&#160;Hooper’s face was behind that piece of crape,” said the sexton.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“I don’t like it,” muttered an old woman,</span>
   <span id="f000061">as she hobbled into the meeting-house.</span>
   <span id="f000062">“He has changed himself into something awful,</span>
   <span id="f000063">only by hiding his face.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“Our parson has gone mad!” cried Goodman Gray,</span>
   <span id="f000065">following him across the threshold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">A rumor of some unaccountable phenomenon had preceded Mr.&#160;Hooper into the meeting-house,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and set all the congregation astir.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Few could refrain from twisting their heads towards the door;</span>
   <span id="f000069">many stood upright,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and turned directly about;</span>
   <span id="f000071">while several little boys clambered upon the seats,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and came down again with a terrible racket.</span>
   <span id="f000073">There was a general bustle,</span>
   <span id="f000074">a rustling of the women’s gowns and shuffling of the men’s feet,</span>
   <span id="f000075">greatly at variance with that hushed repose which should attend the entrance of the minister.</span>
   <span id="f000076">But Mr.&#160;Hooper appeared not to notice the perturbation of his people.</span>
   <span id="f000077">He entered with an almost noiseless step,</span>
   <span id="f000078">bent his head mildly to the pews on each side,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and bowed as he passed his oldest parishioner,</span>
   <span id="f000080">a white-haired great grandsire,</span>
   <span id="f000081">who occupied an arm-chair in the centre of the aisle.</span>
   <span id="f000082">It was strange to observe how slowly this venerable man became conscious of something singular in the appearance of his pastor.</span>
   <span id="f000083">He seemed not fully to partake of the prevailing wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000084">till Mr.&#160;Hooper had ascended the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and showed himself in the pulpit,</span>
   <span id="f000086">face to face with his congregation,</span>
   <span id="f000087">except for the black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000088">That mysterious emblem was never once withdrawn.</span>
   <span id="f000089">It shook with his measured breath,</span>
   <span id="f000090">as he gave out the psalm;</span>
   <span id="f000091">it threw its obscurity between him and the holy page,</span>
   <span id="f000092">as he read the Scriptures;</span>
   <span id="f000093">and while he prayed,</span>
   <span id="f000094">the veil lay heavily on his uplifted countenance.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Did he seek to hide it from the dread Being whom he was addressing?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">Such was the effect of this simple piece of crape,</span>
   <span id="f000097">that more than one woman of delicate nerves was forced to leave the meeting-house.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Yet perhaps the pale-faced congregation was almost as fearful a sight to the minister,</span>
   <span id="f000099">as his black veil to them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">Mr.&#160;Hooper had the reputation of a good preacher,</span>
   <span id="f000101">but not an energetic one:</span>
   <span id="f000102">he strove to win his people heavenward by mild,</span>
   <span id="f000103">persuasive influences,</span>
   <span id="f000104">rather than to drive them thither by the thunders of the Word.</span>
   <span id="f000105">The sermon which he now delivered was marked by the same characteristics of style and manner as the general series of his pulpit oratory.</span>
   <span id="f000106">But there was something,</span>
   <span id="f000107">either in the sentiment of the discourse itself,</span>
   <span id="f000108">or in the imagination of the auditors,</span>
   <span id="f000109">which made it greatly the most powerful effort that they had ever heard from their pastor’s lips.</span>
   <span id="f000110">It was tinged,</span>
   <span id="f000111">rather more darkly than usual,</span>
   <span id="f000112">with the gentle gloom of Mr.&#160;Hooper’s temperament.</span>
   <span id="f000113">The subject had reference to secret sin,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and those sad mysteries which we hide from our nearest and dearest,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and would fain conceal from our own consciousness,</span>
   <span id="f000116">even forgetting that the Omniscient can detect them.</span>
   <span id="f000117">A subtle power was breathed into his words.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Each member of the congregation,</span>
   <span id="f000119">the most innocent girl,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and the man of hardened breast,</span>
   <span id="f000121">felt as if the preacher had crept upon them,</span>
   <span id="f000122">behind his awful veil,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and discovered their hoarded iniquity of deed or thought.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Many spread their clasped hands on their bosoms.</span>
   <span id="f000125">There was nothing terrible in what Mr.&#160;Hooper said,</span>
   <span id="f000126">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000127">no violence;</span>
   <span id="f000128">and yet,</span>
   <span id="f000129">with every tremor of his melancholy voice,</span>
   <span id="f000130">the hearers quaked.</span>
   <span id="f000131">An unsought pathos came hand in hand with awe.</span>
   <span id="f000132">So sensible were the audience of some unwonted attribute in their minister,</span>
   <span id="f000133">that they longed for a breath of wind to blow aside the veil,</span>
   <span id="f000134">almost believing that a stranger’s visage would be discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000135">though the form,</span>
   <span id="f000136">gesture,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and voice were those of Mr.&#160;Hooper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">At the close of the services,</span>
   <span id="f000139">the people hurried out with indecorous confusion,</span>
   <span id="f000140">eager to communicate their pent-up amazement,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and conscious of lighter spirits the moment they lost sight of the black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Some gathered in little circles,</span>
   <span id="f000143">huddled closely together,</span>
   <span id="f000144">with their mouths all whispering in the centre;</span>
   <span id="f000145">some went homeward alone,</span>
   <span id="f000146">wrapt in silent meditation;</span>
   <span id="f000147">some talked loudly,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and profaned the Sabbath day with ostentatious laughter.</span>
   <span id="f000149">A few shook their sagacious heads,</span>
   <span id="f000150">intimating that they could penetrate the mystery;</span>
   <span id="f000151">while one or two affirmed that there was no mystery at all,</span>
   <span id="f000152">but only that Mr.&#160;Hooper’s eyes were so weakened by the midnight lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000153">as to require a shade.</span>
   <span id="f000154">After a brief interval,</span>
   <span id="f000155">forth came good Mr.&#160;Hooper also,</span>
   <span id="f000156">in the rear of his flock.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Turning his veiled face from one group to another,</span>
   <span id="f000158">he paid due reverence to the hoary heads,</span>
   <span id="f000159">saluted the middle aged with kind dignity as their friend and spiritual guide,</span>
   <span id="f000160">greeted the young with mingled authority and love,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and laid his hands on the little children’s heads to bless them.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Such was always his custom on the Sabbath day.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Strange and bewildered looks repaid him for his courtesy.</span>
   <span id="f000164">None,</span>
   <span id="f000165">as on former occasions,</span>
   <span id="f000166">aspired to the honor of walking by their pastor’s side.</span>
   <span id="f000167">Old Squire Saunders,</span>
   <span id="f000168">doubtless by an accidental lapse of memory,</span>
   <span id="f000169">neglected to invite Mr.&#160;Hooper to his table,</span>
   <span id="f000170">where the good clergyman had been wont to bless the food,</span>
   <span id="f000171">almost every Sunday since his settlement.</span>
   <span id="f000172">He returned,</span>
   <span id="f000173">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000174">to the parsonage,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and,</span>
   <span id="f000176">at the moment of closing the door,</span>
   <span id="f000177">was observed to look back upon the people,</span>
   <span id="f000178">all of whom had their eyes fixed upon the minister.</span>
   <span id="f000179">A sad smile gleamed faintly from beneath the black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and flickered about his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000181">glimmering as he disappeared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“How strange,” said a lady,</span>
   <span id="f000183">“that a simple black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000184">such as any woman might wear on her bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000185">should become such a terrible thing on Mr.&#160;Hooper’s face!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“Something must surely be amiss with Mr.&#160;Hooper’s intellects,” observed her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000187">the physician of the village.</span>
   <span id="f000188">“But the strangest part of the affair is the effect of this vagary,</span>
   <span id="f000189">even on a sober-minded man like myself.</span>
   <span id="f000190">The black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000191">though it covers only our pastor’s face,</span>
   <span id="f000192">throws its influence over his whole person,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and makes him ghostlike from head to foot.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Do you not feel it so?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Truly do I,” replied the lady;</span>
   <span id="f000196">“and I would not be alone with him for the world.</span>
   <span id="f000197">I wonder he is not afraid to be alone with himself!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“Men sometimes are so,” said her husband.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">The afternoon service was attended with similar circumstances.</span>
   <span id="f000200">At its conclusion,</span>
   <span id="f000201">the bell tolled for the funeral of a young lady.</span>
   <span id="f000202">The relatives and friends were assembled in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and the more distant acquaintances stood about the door,</span>
   <span id="f000204">speaking of the good qualities of the deceased,</span>
   <span id="f000205">when their talk was interrupted by the appearance of Mr.&#160;Hooper,</span>
   <span id="f000206">still covered with his black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000207">It was now an appropriate emblem.</span>
   <span id="f000208">The clergyman stepped into the room where the corpse was laid,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and bent over the coffin,</span>
   <span id="f000210">to take a last farewell of his deceased parishioner.</span>
   <span id="f000211">As he stooped,</span>
   <span id="f000212">the veil hung straight down from his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000213">so that,</span>
   <span id="f000214">if her eyelids had not been closed forever,</span>
   <span id="f000215">the dead maiden might have seen his face.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Could Mr.&#160;Hooper be fearful of her glance,</span>
   <span id="f000217">that he so hastily caught back the black veil?</span>
   <span id="f000218">A person who watched the interview between the dead and living,</span>
   <span id="f000219">scrupled not to affirm,</span>
   <span id="f000220">that,</span>
   <span id="f000221">at the instant when the clergyman’s features were disclosed,</span>
   <span id="f000222">the corpse had slightly shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000223">rustling the shroud and muslin cap,</span>
   <span id="f000224">though the countenance retained the composure of death.</span>
   <span id="f000225">A superstitious old woman was the only witness of this prodigy.</span>
   <span id="f000226">From the coffin Mr.&#160;Hooper passed into the chamber of the mourners,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and thence to the head of the staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000228">to make the funeral prayer.</span>
   <span id="f000229">It was a tender and heart-dissolving prayer,</span>
   <span id="f000230">full of sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000231">yet so imbued with celestial hopes,</span>
   <span id="f000232">that the music of a heavenly harp,</span>
   <span id="f000233">swept by the fingers of the dead,</span>
   <span id="f000234">seemed faintly to be heard among the saddest accents of the minister.</span>
   <span id="f000235">The people trembled,</span>
   <span id="f000236">though they but darkly understood him when he prayed that they,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and himself,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and all of mortal race,</span>
   <span id="f000239">might be ready,</span>
   <span id="f000240">as he trusted this young maiden had been,</span>
   <span id="f000241">for the dreadful hour that should snatch the veil from their faces.</span>
   <span id="f000242">The bearers went heavily forth,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and the mourners followed,</span>
   <span id="f000244">saddening all the street,</span>
   <span id="f000245">with the dead before them,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and Mr.&#160;Hooper in his black veil behind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“Why do you look back?” said one in the procession to his partner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“I had a fancy,” replied she,</span>
   <span id="f000249">“that the minister and the maiden’s spirit were walking hand in hand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“And so had I,</span>
   <span id="f000251">at the same moment,” said the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">That night,</span>
   <span id="f000253">the handsomest couple in Milford village were to be joined in wedlock.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Though reckoned a melancholy man,</span>
   <span id="f000255">Mr.&#160;Hooper had a placid cheerfulness for such occasions,</span>
   <span id="f000256">which often excited a sympathetic smile where livelier merriment would have been thrown away.</span>
   <span id="f000257">There was no quality of his disposition which made him more beloved than this.</span>
   <span id="f000258">The company at the wedding awaited his arrival with impatience,</span>
   <span id="f000259">trusting that the strange awe,</span>
   <span id="f000260">which had gathered over him throughout the day,</span>
   <span id="f000261">would now be dispelled.</span>
   <span id="f000262">But such was not the result.</span>
   <span id="f000263">When Mr.&#160;Hooper came,</span>
   <span id="f000264">the first thing that their eyes rested on was the same horrible black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000265">which had added deeper gloom to the funeral,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and could portend nothing but evil to the wedding.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Such was its immediate effect on the guests that a cloud seemed to have rolled duskily from beneath the black crape,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and dimmed the light of the candles.</span>
   <span id="f000269">The bridal pair stood up before the minister.</span>
   <span id="f000270">But the bride’s cold fingers quivered in the tremulous hand of the bridegroom,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and her deathlike paleness caused a whisper that the maiden who had been buried a few hours before was come from her grave to be married.</span>
   <span id="f000272">If ever another wedding were so dismal,</span>
   <span id="f000273">it was that famous one where they tolled the wedding knell.</span>
   <span id="f000274">After performing the ceremony,</span>
   <span id="f000275">Mr.&#160;Hooper raised a glass of wine to his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000276">wishing happiness to the newmarried couple in a strain of mild pleasantry that ought to have brightened the features of the guests,</span>
   <span id="f000277">like a cheerful gleam from the hearth.</span>
   <span id="f000278">At that instant,</span>
   <span id="f000279">catching a glimpse of his figure in the looking-glass,</span>
   <span id="f000280">the black veil involved his own spirit in the horror with which it overwhelmed all others.</span>
   <span id="f000281">His frame shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000282">his lips grew white,</span>
   <span id="f000283">he spilt the untasted wine upon the carpet,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and rushed forth into the darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000285">For the Earth,</span>
   <span id="f000286">too,</span>
   <span id="f000287">had on her Black Veil.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">The next day,</span>
   <span id="f000289">the whole village of Milford talked of little else than Parson Hooper’s black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000290">That,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and the mystery concealed behind it,</span>
   <span id="f000292">supplied a topic for discussion between acquaintances meeting in the street,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and good women gossiping at their open windows.</span>
   <span id="f000294">It was the first item of news that the tavern-keeper told to his guests.</span>
   <span id="f000295">The children babbled of it on their way to school.</span>
   <span id="f000296">One imitative little imp covered his face with an old black handkerchief,</span>
   <span id="f000297">thereby so affrighting his playmates that the panic seized himself,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and he well-nigh lost his wits by his own waggery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">It was remarkable that all of the busybodies and impertinent people in the parish,</span>
   <span id="f000300">not one ventured to put the plain question to Mr.&#160;Hooper,</span>
   <span id="f000301">wherefore he did this thing.</span>
   <span id="f000302">Hitherto,</span>
   <span id="f000303">whenever there appeared the slightest call for such interference,</span>
   <span id="f000304">he had never lacked advisers,</span>
   <span id="f000305">nor shown himself averse to be guided by their judgment.</span>
   <span id="f000306">If he erred at all,</span>
   <span id="f000307">it was by so painful a degree of self-distrust,</span>
   <span id="f000308">that even the mildest censure would lead him to consider an indifferent action as a crime.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000310">though so well acquainted with this amiable weakness,</span>
   <span id="f000311">no individual among his parishioners chose to make the black veil a subject of friendly remonstrance.</span>
   <span id="f000312">There was a feeling of dread,</span>
   <span id="f000313">neither plainly confessed nor carefully concealed,</span>
   <span id="f000314">which caused each to shift the responsibility upon another,</span>
   <span id="f000315">till at length it was found expedient to send a deputation of the church,</span>
   <span id="f000316">in order to deal with Mr.&#160;Hooper about the mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000317">before it should grow into a scandal.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Never did an embassy so ill discharge its duties.</span>
   <span id="f000319">The minister received then with friendly courtesy,</span>
   <span id="f000320">but became silent,</span>
   <span id="f000321">after they were seated,</span>
   <span id="f000322">leaving to his visitors the whole burden of introducing their important business.</span>
   <span id="f000323">The topic,</span>
   <span id="f000324">it might be supposed,</span>
   <span id="f000325">was obvious enough.</span>
   <span id="f000326">There was the black veil swathed round Mr.&#160;Hooper’s forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and concealing every feature above his placid mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000328">on which,</span>
   <span id="f000329">at times,</span>
   <span id="f000330">they could perceive the glimmering of a melancholy smile.</span>
   <span id="f000331">But that piece of crape,</span>
   <span id="f000332">to their imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000333">seemed to hang down before his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000334">the symbol of a fearful secret between him and them.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Were the veil but cast aside,</span>
   <span id="f000336">they might speak freely of it,</span>
   <span id="f000337">but not till then.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Thus they sat a considerable time,</span>
   <span id="f000339">speechless,</span>
   <span id="f000340">confused,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and shrinking uneasily from Mr.&#160;Hooper’s eye,</span>
   <span id="f000342">which they felt to be fixed upon them with an invisible glance.</span>
   <span id="f000343">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f000344">the deputies returned abashed to their constituents,</span>
   <span id="f000345">pronouncing the matter too weighty to be handled,</span>
   <span id="f000346">except by a council of the churches,</span>
   <span id="f000347">if,</span>
   <span id="f000348">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000349">it might not require a general synod.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">But there was one person in the village unappalled by the awe with which the black veil had impressed all beside herself.</span>
   <span id="f000351">When the deputies returned without an explanation,</span>
   <span id="f000352">or even venturing to demand one,</span>
   <span id="f000353">she,</span>
   <span id="f000354">with the calm energy of her character,</span>
   <span id="f000355">determined to chase away the strange cloud that appeared to be settling round Mr.&#160;Hooper,</span>
   <span id="f000356">every moment more darkly than before.</span>
   <span id="f000357">As his plighted wife,</span>
   <span id="f000358">it should be her privilege to know what the black veil concealed.</span>
   <span id="f000359">At the minister’s first visit,</span>
   <span id="f000360">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000361">she entered upon the subject with a direct simplicity,</span>
   <span id="f000362">which made the task easier both for him and her.</span>
   <span id="f000363">After he had seated himself,</span>
   <span id="f000364">she fixed her eyes steadfastly upon the veil,</span>
   <span id="f000365">but could discern nothing of the dreadful gloom that had so overawed the multitude:</span>
   <span id="f000366">it was but a double fold of crape,</span>
   <span id="f000367">hanging down from his forehead to his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and slightly stirring with his breath.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“No,” said she aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000371">“there is nothing terrible in this piece of crape,</span>
   <span id="f000372">except that it hides a face which I am always glad to look upon.</span>
   <span id="f000373">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000374">good sir,</span>
   <span id="f000375">let the sun shine from behind the cloud.</span>
   <span id="f000376">First lay aside your black veil:</span>
   <span id="f000377">then tell me why you put it on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">Mr.&#160;Hooper’s smile glimmered faintly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“There is an hour to come,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000380">“when all of us shall cast aside our veils.</span>
   <span id="f000381">Take it not amiss,</span>
   <span id="f000382">beloved friend,</span>
   <span id="f000383">if I wear this piece of crape till then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“Your words are a mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000385">too,” returned the young lady.</span>
   <span id="f000386">“Take away the veil from them,</span>
   <span id="f000387">at least.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“Elizabeth,</span>
   <span id="f000389">I will,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000390">“so far as my vow may suffer me.</span>
   <span id="f000391">Know,</span>
   <span id="f000392">then,</span>
   <span id="f000393">this veil is a type and a symbol,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and I am bound to wear it ever,</span>
   <span id="f000395">both in light and darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000396">in solitude and before the gaze of multitudes,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and as with strangers,</span>
   <span id="f000398">so with my familiar friends.</span>
   <span id="f000399">No mortal eye will see it withdrawn.</span>
   <span id="f000400">This dismal shade must separate me from the world:</span>
   <span id="f000401">even you,</span>
   <span id="f000402">Elizabeth,</span>
   <span id="f000403">can never come behind it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“What grievous affliction hath befallen you,” she earnestly inquired,</span>
   <span id="f000405">“that you should thus darken your eyes forever?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“If it be a sign of mourning,” replied Mr.&#160;Hooper,</span>
   <span id="f000407">“I,</span>
   <span id="f000408">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000409">like most other mortals,</span>
   <span id="f000410">have sorrows dark enough to be typified by a black veil.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“But what if the world will not believe that it is the type of an innocent sorrow?” urged Elizabeth.</span>
   <span id="f000412">“Beloved and respected as you are,</span>
   <span id="f000413">there may be whispers that you hide your face under the consciousness of secret sin.</span>
   <span id="f000414">For the sake of your holy office,</span>
   <span id="f000415">do away this scandal!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">The color rose into her cheeks as she intimated the nature of the rumors that were already abroad in the village.</span>
   <span id="f000417">But Mr.&#160;Hooper’s mildness did not forsake him.</span>
   <span id="f000418">He even smiled again – that same sad smile,</span>
   <span id="f000419">which always appeared like a faint glimmering of light,</span>
   <span id="f000420">proceeding from the obscurity beneath the veil.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">“If I hide my face for sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000422">there is cause enough,” he merely replied;</span>
   <span id="f000423">“and if I cover it for secret sin,</span>
   <span id="f000424">what mortal might not do the same?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">And with this gentle,</span>
   <span id="f000426">but unconquerable obstinacy did he resist all her entreaties.</span>
   <span id="f000427">At length Elizabeth sat silent.</span>
   <span id="f000428">For a few moments she appeared lost in thought,</span>
   <span id="f000429">considering,</span>
   <span id="f000430">probably,</span>
   <span id="f000431">what new methods might be tried to withdraw her lover from so dark a fantasy,</span>
   <span id="f000432">which,</span>
   <span id="f000433">if it had no other meaning,</span>
   <span id="f000434">was perhaps a symptom of mental disease.</span>
   <span id="f000435">Though of a firmer character than his own,</span>
   <span id="f000436">the tears rolled down her cheeks.</span>
   <span id="f000437">But,</span>
   <span id="f000438">in an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000439">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000440">a new feeling took the place of sorrow:</span>
   <span id="f000441">her eyes were fixed insensibly on the black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000442">when,</span>
   <span id="f000443">like a sudden twilight in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000444">its terrors fell around her.</span>
   <span id="f000445">She arose,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and stood trembling before him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“And do you feel it then,</span>
   <span id="f000448">at last?” said he mournfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">She made no reply,</span>
   <span id="f000450">but covered her eyes with her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and turned to leave the room.</span>
   <span id="f000452">He rushed forward and caught her arm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“Have patience with me,</span>
   <span id="f000454">Elizabeth!” cried he,</span>
   <span id="f000455">passionately.</span>
   <span id="f000456">“Do not desert me,</span>
   <span id="f000457">though this veil must be between us here on earth.</span>
   <span id="f000458">Be mine,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and hereafter there shall be no veil over my face,</span>
   <span id="f000460">no darkness between our souls!</span>
   <span id="f000461">It is but a mortal veil – it is not for eternity!</span>
   <span id="f000462">O!</span>
   <span id="f000463">you know not how lonely I am,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and how frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000465">to be alone behind my black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Do not leave me in this miserable obscurity forever!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“Lift the veil but once,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and look me in the face,” said she.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“Never!</span>
   <span id="f000470">It cannot be!” replied Mr.&#160;Hooper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">“Then farewell!” said Elizabeth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">She withdrew her arm from his grasp,</span>
   <span id="f000473">and slowly departed,</span>
   <span id="f000474">pausing at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000475">to give one long shuddering gaze,</span>
   <span id="f000476">that seemed almost to penetrate the mystery of the black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000477">But,</span>
   <span id="f000478">even amid his grief,</span>
   <span id="f000479">Mr.&#160;Hooper smiled to think that only a material emblem had separated him from happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000480">though the horrors,</span>
   <span id="f000481">which it shadowed forth,</span>
   <span id="f000482">must be drawn darkly between the fondest of lovers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">From that time no attempts were made to remove Mr.&#160;Hooper’s black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000484">or,</span>
   <span id="f000485">by a direct appeal,</span>
   <span id="f000486">to discover the secret which it was supposed to hide.</span>
   <span id="f000487">By persons who claimed a superiority to popular prejudice,</span>
   <span id="f000488">it was reckoned merely an eccentric whim,</span>
   <span id="f000489">such as often mingles with the sober actions of men otherwise rational,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and tinges them all with its own semblance of insanity.</span>
   <span id="f000491">But with the multitude,</span>
   <span id="f000492">good Mr.&#160;Hooper was irreparably a bugbear.</span>
   <span id="f000493">He could not walk the street with any peace of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000494">so conscious was he that the gentle and timid would turn aside to avoid him,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and that others would make it a point of hardihood to throw themselves in his way.</span>
   <span id="f000496">The impertinence of the latter class compelled him to give up his customary walk at sunset to the burial ground;</span>
   <span id="f000497">for when he leaned pensively over the gate,</span>
   <span id="f000498">there would always be faces behind the gravestones,</span>
   <span id="f000499">peeping at his black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000500">A fable went the rounds that the stare of the dead people drove him thence.</span>
   <span id="f000501">It grieved him,</span>
   <span id="f000502">to the very depth of his kind heart,</span>
   <span id="f000503">to observe how the children fled from his approach,</span>
   <span id="f000504">breaking up their merriest sports,</span>
   <span id="f000505">while his melancholy figure was yet afar off.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Their instinctive dread caused him to feel more strongly than aught else,</span>
   <span id="f000507">that a preternatural horror was interwoven with the threads of the black crape.</span>
   <span id="f000508">In truth,</span>
   <span id="f000509">his own antipathy to the veil was known to be so great,</span>
   <span id="f000510">that he never willingly passed before a mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000511">nor stooped to drink at a still fountain,</span>
   <span id="f000512">lest,</span>
   <span id="f000513">in its peaceful bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000514">he should be affrighted by himself.</span>
   <span id="f000515">This was what gave plausibility to the whispers,</span>
   <span id="f000516">that Mr.&#160;Hooper’s conscience tortured him for some great crime too horrible to be entirely concealed,</span>
   <span id="f000517">or otherwise than so obscurely intimated.</span>
   <span id="f000518">Thus,</span>
   <span id="f000519">from beneath the black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000520">there rolled a cloud into the sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000521">an ambiguity of sin or sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000522">which enveloped the poor minister,</span>
   <span id="f000523">so that love or sympathy could never reach him.</span>
   <span id="f000524">It was said that ghost and fiend consorted with him there.</span>
   <span id="f000525">With self-shudderings and outward terrors,</span>
   <span id="f000526">he walked continually in its shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000527">groping darkly within his own soul,</span>
   <span id="f000528">or gazing through a medium that saddened the whole world.</span>
   <span id="f000529">Even the lawless wind,</span>
   <span id="f000530">it was believed,</span>
   <span id="f000531">respected his dreadful secret,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and never blew aside the veil.</span>
   <span id="f000533">But still good Mr.&#160;Hooper sadly smiled at the pale visages of the worldly throng as he passed by.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">Among all its bad influences,</span>
   <span id="f000535">the black veil had the one desirable effect,</span>
   <span id="f000536">of making its wearer a very efficient clergyman.</span>
   <span id="f000537">By the aid of his mysterious emblem – for there was no other apparent cause – he became a man of awful power over souls that were in agony for sin.</span>
   <span id="f000538">His converts always regarded him with a dread peculiar to themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000539">affirming,</span>
   <span id="f000540">though but figuratively,</span>
   <span id="f000541">that,</span>
   <span id="f000542">before he brought them to celestial light,</span>
   <span id="f000543">they had been with him behind the black veil.</span>
   <span id="f000544">Its gloom,</span>
   <span id="f000545">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000546">enabled him to sympathize with all dark affections.</span>
   <span id="f000547">Dying sinners cried aloud for Mr.&#160;Hooper,</span>
   <span id="f000548">and would not yield their breath till he appeared;</span>
   <span id="f000549">though ever,</span>
   <span id="f000550">as he stooped to whisper consolation,</span>
   <span id="f000551">they shuddered at the veiled face so near their own.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Such were the terrors of the black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000553">even when Death had bared his visage!</span>
   <span id="f000554">Strangers came long distances to attend service at his church,</span>
   <span id="f000555">with the mere idle purpose of gazing at his figure,</span>
   <span id="f000556">because it was forbidden them to behold his face.</span>
   <span id="f000557">But many were made to quake ere they departed!</span>
   <span id="f000558">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000559">during Governor Belcher’s administration,</span>
   <span id="f000560">Mr.&#160;Hooper was appointed to preach the election sermon.</span>
   <span id="f000561">Covered with his black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000562">he stood before the chief magistrate,</span>
   <span id="f000563">the council,</span>
   <span id="f000564">and the representatives,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and wrought so deep an impression,</span>
   <span id="f000566">that the legislative measures of that year were characterized by all the gloom and piety of our earliest ancestral sway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000567">In this manner Mr.&#160;Hooper spent a long life,</span>
   <span id="f000568">irreproachable in outward act,</span>
   <span id="f000569">yet shrouded in dismal suspicions;</span>
   <span id="f000570">kind and loving,</span>
   <span id="f000571">though unloved,</span>
   <span id="f000572">and dimly feared;</span>
   <span id="f000573">a man apart from men,</span>
   <span id="f000574">shunned in their health and joy,</span>
   <span id="f000575">but ever summoned to their aid in mortal anguish.</span>
   <span id="f000576">As years wore on,</span>
   <span id="f000577">shedding their snows above his sable veil,</span>
   <span id="f000578">he acquired a name throughout the New England churches,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and they called him Father Hooper.</span>
   <span id="f000580">Nearly all his parishioners,</span>
   <span id="f000581">who were of mature age when he was settled,</span>
   <span id="f000582">had been borne away by many a funeral:</span>
   <span id="f000583">he had one congregation in the church,</span>
   <span id="f000584">and a more crowded one in the churchyard;</span>
   <span id="f000585">and having wrought so late into the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000586">and done his work so well,</span>
   <span id="f000587">it was now good Father Hooper’s turn to rest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">Several persons were visible by the shaded candlelight,</span>
   <span id="f000589">in the death chamber of the old clergyman.</span>
   <span id="f000590">Natural connections he had none.</span>
   <span id="f000591">But there was the decorously grave,</span>
   <span id="f000592">though unmoved physician,</span>
   <span id="f000593">seeking only to mitigate the last pangs of the patient whom he could not save.</span>
   <span id="f000594">There were the deacons,</span>
   <span id="f000595">and other eminently pious members of his church.</span>
   <span id="f000596">There,</span>
   <span id="f000597">also,</span>
   <span id="f000598">was the Reverend Mr.&#160;Clark,</span>
   <span id="f000599">of Westbury,</span>
   <span id="f000600">a young and zealous divine,</span>
   <span id="f000601">who had ridden in haste to pray by the bedside of the expiring minister.</span>
   <span id="f000602">There was the nurse,</span>
   <span id="f000603">no hired handmaiden of death,</span>
   <span id="f000604">but one whose calm affection had endured thus long in secrecy,</span>
   <span id="f000605">in solitude,</span>
   <span id="f000606">amid the chill of age,</span>
   <span id="f000607">and would not perish,</span>
   <span id="f000608">even at the dying hour.</span>
   <span id="f000609">Who,</span>
   <span id="f000610">but Elizabeth!</span>
   <span id="f000611">And there lay the hoary head of good Father Hooper upon the death pillow,</span>
   <span id="f000612">with the black veil still swathed about his brow,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and reaching down over his face,</span>
   <span id="f000614">so that each more difficult gasp of his faint breath caused it to stir.</span>
   <span id="f000615">All through life that piece of crape had hung between him and the world:</span>
   <span id="f000616">it had separated him from cheerful brotherhood and woman’s love,</span>
   <span id="f000617">and kept him in that saddest of all prisons,</span>
   <span id="f000618">his own heart;</span>
   <span id="f000619">and still it lay upon his face,</span>
   <span id="f000620">as if to deepen the gloom of his darksome chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and shade him from the sunshine of eternity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">For some time previous,</span>
   <span id="f000623">his mind had been confused,</span>
   <span id="f000624">wavering doubtfully between the past and the present,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and hovering forward,</span>
   <span id="f000626">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000627">at intervals,</span>
   <span id="f000628">into the indistinctness of the world to come.</span>
   <span id="f000629">There had been feverish turns,</span>
   <span id="f000630">which tossed him from side to side,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and wore away what little strength he had.</span>
   <span id="f000632">But in his most convulsive struggles,</span>
   <span id="f000633">and in the wildest vagaries of his intellect,</span>
   <span id="f000634">when no other thought retained its sober influence,</span>
   <span id="f000635">he still showed an awful solicitude lest the black veil should slip aside.</span>
   <span id="f000636">Even if his bewildered soul could have forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000637">there was a faithful woman at this pillow,</span>
   <span id="f000638">who,</span>
   <span id="f000639">with averted eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000640">would have covered that aged face,</span>
   <span id="f000641">which she had last beheld in the comeliness of manhood.</span>
   <span id="f000642">At length the death-stricken old man lay quietly in the torpor of mental and bodily exhaustion,</span>
   <span id="f000643">with an imperceptible pulse,</span>
   <span id="f000644">and breath that grew fainter and fainter,</span>
   <span id="f000645">except when a long,</span>
   <span id="f000646">deep,</span>
   <span id="f000647">and irregular inspiration seemed to prelude the flight of his spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">The minister of Westbury approached the bedside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“Venerable Father Hooper,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000650">“the moment of your release is at hand.</span>
   <span id="f000651">Are you ready for the lifting of the veil that shuts in time from eternity?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">Father Hooper at first replied merely by a feeble motion of his head;</span>
   <span id="f000653">then,</span>
   <span id="f000654">apprehensive,</span>
   <span id="f000655">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000656">that his meaning might be doubted,</span>
   <span id="f000657">he exerted himself to speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">“Yea,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000659">in faint accents,</span>
   <span id="f000660">“my soul hath a patient weariness until that veil be lifted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000661">“And is it fitting,” resumed the Reverend Mr.&#160;Clark,</span>
   <span id="f000662">“that a man so given to prayer,</span>
   <span id="f000663">of such a blameless example,</span>
   <span id="f000664">holy in deed and thought,</span>
   <span id="f000665">so far as mortal judgment may pronounce;</span>
   <span id="f000666">is it fitting that a father in the church should leave a shadow on his memory,</span>
   <span id="f000667">that may seem to blacken a life so pure?</span>
   <span id="f000668">I pray you,</span>
   <span id="f000669">my venerable brother,</span>
   <span id="f000670">let not this thing be!</span>
   <span id="f000671">Suffer us to be gladdened by your triumphant aspect as you go to your reward.</span>
   <span id="f000672">Before the veil of eternity be lifted,</span>
   <span id="f000673">let me cast aside this black veil from your face!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">And thus speaking,</span>
   <span id="f000675">the Reverend Mr.&#160;Clark bent forward to reveal the mystery of so many years.</span>
   <span id="f000676">But,</span>
   <span id="f000677">exerting a sudden energy,</span>
   <span id="f000678">that made all the beholders stand aghast,</span>
   <span id="f000679">Father Hooper snatched both his hands from beneath the bedclothes,</span>
   <span id="f000680">and pressed them strongly on the black veil,</span>
   <span id="f000681">resolute to struggle,</span>
   <span id="f000682">if the minister of Westbury would contend with a dying man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">“Never!” cried the veiled clergyman.</span>
   <span id="f000684">“On earth,</span>
   <span id="f000685">never!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">“Dark old man!” exclaimed the affrighted minister,</span>
   <span id="f000687">“with what horrible crime upon your soul are you now passing to the judgment?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">Father Hooper’s breath heaved;</span>
   <span id="f000689">it rattled in his throat;</span>
   <span id="f000690">but,</span>
   <span id="f000691">with a mighty effort,</span>
   <span id="f000692">grasping forward with his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000693">he caught hold of life,</span>
   <span id="f000694">and held it back till he should speak.</span>
   <span id="f000695">He even raised himself in bed;</span>
   <span id="f000696">and there he sat,</span>
   <span id="f000697">shivering with the arms of death around him,</span>
   <span id="f000698">while the black veil hung down,</span>
   <span id="f000699">awful,</span>
   <span id="f000700">at that last moment,</span>
   <span id="f000701">in the gathered terrors of a lifetime.</span>
   <span id="f000702">And yet the faint,</span>
   <span id="f000703">sad smile,</span>
   <span id="f000704">so often there,</span>
   <span id="f000705">now seemed to glimmer from its obscurity,</span>
   <span id="f000706">and linger on Father Hooper’s lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">“Why do you tremble at me alone?” cried he,</span>
   <span id="f000708">turning his veiled face round the circle of pale spectators.</span>
   <span id="f000709">“Tremble also at each other!</span>
   <span id="f000710">Have men avoided me,</span>
   <span id="f000711">and women shown no pity,</span>
   <span id="f000712">and children screamed and fled,</span>
   <span id="f000713">only for my black veil?</span>
   <span id="f000714">What,</span>
   <span id="f000715">but the mystery which it obscurely typifies,</span>
   <span id="f000716">has made this piece of crape so awful?</span>
   <span id="f000717">When the friend shows his inmost heart to his friend;</span>
   <span id="f000718">the lover to his best beloved;</span>
   <span id="f000719">when man does not vainly shrink from the eye of his Creator,</span>
   <span id="f000720">loathsomely treasuring up the secret of his sin;</span>
   <span id="f000721">then deem me a monster,</span>
   <span id="f000722">for the symbol beneath which I have lived,</span>
   <span id="f000723">and die!</span>
   <span id="f000724">I look around me,</span>
   <span id="f000725">and,</span>
   <span id="f000726">lo!</span>
   <span id="f000727">on every visage a Black Veil!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">While his auditors shrank from one another,</span>
   <span id="f000729">in mutual affright,</span>
   <span id="f000730">Father Hooper fell back upon his pillow,</span>
   <span id="f000731">a veiled corpse,</span>
   <span id="f000732">with a faint smile lingering on the lips.</span>
   <span id="f000733">Still veiled,</span>
   <span id="f000734">they laid him in his coffin,</span>
   <span id="f000735">and a veiled corpse they bore him to the grave.</span>
   <span id="f000736">The grass of many years has sprung up and withered on that grave,</span>
   <span id="f000737">the burial stone is moss-grown,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and good Mr.&#160;Hooper’s face is dust;</span>
   <span id="f000739">but awful is still the thought that it mouldered beneath the Black Veil!</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

