<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Lakeside was a pleasant little town of five or six thousand inhabitants,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and a rather pretty one,</span>
   <span id="f000004">too,</span>
   <span id="f000005">as towns go in the Far West.</span>
   <span id="f000006">It had church accommodations for thirty-five thousand,</span>
   <span id="f000007">which is the way of the Far West and the South,</span>
   <span id="f000008">where everybody is religious,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and where each of the Protestant sects is represented and has a plant of its own.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Rank was unknown in Lakeside – unconfessed,</span>
   <span id="f000011">anyway;</span>
   <span id="f000012">everybody knew everybody and his dog,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and a sociable friendliness was the prevailing atmosphere.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Saladin Foster was book-keeper in the principal store,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and the only high-salaried man of his profession in Lakeside.</span>
   <span id="f000016">He was thirty-five years old,</span>
   <span id="f000017">now;</span>
   <span id="f000018">he had served that store for fourteen years;</span>
   <span id="f000019">he had begun in his marriage-week at four hundred dollars a year,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and had climbed steadily up,</span>
   <span id="f000021">a hundred dollars a year,</span>
   <span id="f000022">for four years;</span>
   <span id="f000023">from that time forth his wage had remained eight hundred – a handsome figure indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and everybody conceded that he was worth it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">His wife,</span>
   <span id="f000026">Electra,</span>
   <span id="f000027">was a capable helpmeet,</span>
   <span id="f000028">although – like himself – a dreamer of dreams and a private dabbler in romance.</span>
   <span id="f000029">The first thing she did,</span>
   <span id="f000030">after her marriage – child as she was,</span>
   <span id="f000031">aged only nineteen – was to buy an acre of ground on the edge of the town,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and pay down the cash for it – twenty-five dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000033">all her fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Saladin had less,</span>
   <span id="f000035">by fifteen.</span>
   <span id="f000036">She instituted a vegetable garden there,</span>
   <span id="f000037">got it farmed on shares by the nearest neighbor,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and made it pay her a hundred per cent.</span>
   <span id="f000039">a year.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Out of Saladin’s first year’s wage she put thirty dollars in the savings-bank,</span>
   <span id="f000041">sixty out of his second,</span>
   <span id="f000042">a hundred out of his third,</span>
   <span id="f000043">a hundred and fifty out of his fourth.</span>
   <span id="f000044">His wage went to eight hundred a year,</span>
   <span id="f000045">then,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and meantime two children had arrived and increased the expenses,</span>
   <span id="f000047">but she banked two hundred a year from the salary,</span>
   <span id="f000048">nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000049">thenceforth.</span>
   <span id="f000050">When she had been married seven years she built and furnished a pretty and comfortable two-thousand-dollar house in the midst of her garden-acre,</span>
   <span id="f000051">paid half of the money down and moved her family in.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Seven years later she was out of debt and had several hundred dollars out earning its living.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">Earning it by the rise in landed estate;</span>
   <span id="f000054">for she had long ago bought another acre or two and sold the most of it at a profit to pleasant people who were willing to build,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and would be good neighbors and furnish a general comradeship for herself and her growing family.</span>
   <span id="f000056">She had an independent income from safe investments of about a hundred dollars a year;</span>
   <span id="f000057">her children were growing in years and grace;</span>
   <span id="f000058">and she was a pleased and happy woman.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Happy in her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000060">happy in her children,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and the husband and the children were happy in her.</span>
   <span id="f000062">It is at this point that this history begins.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">The youngest girl,</span>
   <span id="f000064">Clytemnestra – called Clytie for short – was eleven;</span>
   <span id="f000065">her sister,</span>
   <span id="f000066">Gwendolen – called Gwen for short – was thirteen;</span>
   <span id="f000067">nice girls,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and comely.</span>
   <span id="f000069">The names betray the latent romance-tinge in the parental blood,</span>
   <span id="f000070">the parents’ names indicate that the tinge was an inheritance.</span>
   <span id="f000071">It was an affectionate family,</span>
   <span id="f000072">hence all four of its members had pet names,</span>
   <span id="f000073">Saladin’s was a curious and unsexing one – Sally;</span>
   <span id="f000074">and so was Electra’s – Aleck.</span>
   <span id="f000075">All day long Sally was a good and diligent book-keeper and salesman;</span>
   <span id="f000076">all day long Aleck was a good and faithful mother and housewife,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and thoughtful and calculating business woman;</span>
   <span id="f000078">but in the cozy living-room at night they put the plodding world away,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and lived in another and a fairer,</span>
   <span id="f000080">reading romances to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000081">dreaming dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000082">comrading with kings and princes and stately lords and ladies in the flash and stir and splendor of noble palaces and grim and ancient castles.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

