<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Now came great news!</span>
   <span id="f000003">Stunning news – joyous news,</span>
   <span id="f000004">in fact.</span>
   <span id="f000005">It came from a neighboring state,</span>
   <span id="f000006">where the family’s only surviving relative lived.</span>
   <span id="f000007">It was Sally’s relative – a sort of vague and indefinite uncle or second or third cousin by the name of Tilbury Foster,</span>
   <span id="f000008">seventy and a bachelor,</span>
   <span id="f000009">reputed well off and corresponding sour and crusty.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Sally had tried to make up to him once,</span>
   <span id="f000011">by letter,</span>
   <span id="f000012">in a bygone time,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and had not made that mistake again.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Tilbury now wrote to Sally,</span>
   <span id="f000015">saying he should shortly die,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and should leave him thirty thousand dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000017">cash;</span>
   <span id="f000018">not for love,</span>
   <span id="f000019">but because money had given him most of his troubles and exasperations,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and he wished to place it where there was good hope that it would continue its malignant work.</span>
   <span id="f000021">The bequest would be found in his will,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and would be paid over.</span>
   <span id="f000023">PROVIDED,</span>
   <span id="f000024">that Sally should be able to prove to the executors that he had TAKEN NO NOTICE OF THE GIFT BY SPOKEN WORD OR BY LETTER,</span>
   <span id="f000025">HAD MADE NO INQUIRIES CONCERNING THE MORIBUND’S PROGRESS TOWARD THE EVERLASTING TROPICS,</span>
   <span id="f000026">AND HAD NOT ATTENDED THE FUNERAL.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">As soon as Aleck had partially recovered from the tremendous emotions created by the letter,</span>
   <span id="f000028">she sent to the relative’s habitat and subscribed for the local paper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">Man and wife entered into a solemn compact,</span>
   <span id="f000030">now,</span>
   <span id="f000031">to never mention the great news to any one while the relative lived,</span>
   <span id="f000032">lest some ignorant person carry the fact to the death-bed and distort it and make it appear that they were disobediently thankful for the bequest,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and just the same as confessing it and publishing it,</span>
   <span id="f000034">right in the face of the prohibition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">For the rest of the day Sally made havoc and confusion with his books,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and Aleck could not keep her mind on her affairs,</span>
   <span id="f000037">not even take up a flower-pot or book or a stick of wood without forgetting what she had intended to do with it.</span>
   <span id="f000038">For both were dreaming.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“Thir-ty thousand dollars!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">All day long the music of those inspiring words sang through those people’s heads.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">From his marriage-day forth,</span>
   <span id="f000042">Aleck’s grip had been upon the purse,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and Sally had seldom known what it was to be privileged to squander a dime on non-necessities.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“Thir-ty thousand dollars!” the song went on and on.</span>
   <span id="f000045">A vast sum,</span>
   <span id="f000046">an unthinkable sum!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">All day long Aleck was absorbed in planning how to invest it,</span>
   <span id="f000048">Sally in planning how to spend it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">There was no romance-reading that night.</span>
   <span id="f000050">The children took themselves away early,</span>
   <span id="f000051">for their parents were silent,</span>
   <span id="f000052">distraught,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and strangely unentertaining.</span>
   <span id="f000054">The good-night kisses might as well have been impressed upon vacancy,</span>
   <span id="f000055">for all the response they got;</span>
   <span id="f000056">the parents were not aware of the kisses,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and the children had been gone an hour before their absence was noticed.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Two pencils had been busy during that hour – note-making;</span>
   <span id="f000059">in the way of plans.</span>
   <span id="f000060">It was Sally who broke the stillness at last.</span>
   <span id="f000061">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000062">with exultation:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000064">it’ll be grand,</span>
   <span id="f000065">Aleck!</span>
   <span id="f000066">Out of the first thousand we’ll have a horse and a buggy for summer,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and a cutter and a skin lap-robe for winter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">Aleck responded with decision and composure –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“Out of the CAPITAL?</span>
   <span id="f000070">Nothing of the kind.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Not if it was a million!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Sally was deeply disappointed;</span>
   <span id="f000073">the glow went out of his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000075">Aleck!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000076">reproachfully.</span>
   <span id="f000077">“We’ve always worked so hard and been so scrimped:</span>
   <span id="f000078">and now that we are rich,</span>
   <span id="f000079">it does seem – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">He did not finish,</span>
   <span id="f000081">for he saw her eye soften;</span>
   <span id="f000082">his supplication had touched her.</span>
   <span id="f000083">She said,</span>
   <span id="f000084">with gentle persuasiveness:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“We must not spend the capital,</span>
   <span id="f000086">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000087">it would not be wise.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Out of the income from it – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“That will answer,</span>
   <span id="f000090">that will answer,</span>
   <span id="f000091">Aleck!</span>
   <span id="f000092">How dear and good you are!</span>
   <span id="f000093">There will be a noble income and if we can spend that – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“Not ALL of it,</span>
   <span id="f000095">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000096">not all of it,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but you can spend a part of it.</span>
   <span id="f000098">That is,</span>
   <span id="f000099">a reasonable part.</span>
   <span id="f000100">But the whole of the capital – every penny of it – must be put right to work,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and kept at it.</span>
   <span id="f000102">You see the reasonableness of that,</span>
   <span id="f000103">don’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000105">ye-s.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000107">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000108">But we’ll have to wait so long.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Six months before the first interest falls due.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Yes – maybe longer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“Longer,</span>
   <span id="f000112">Aleck?</span>
   <span id="f000113">Why?</span>
   <span id="f000114">Don’t they pay half-yearly?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“THAT kind of an investment – yes;</span>
   <span id="f000116">but I sha’n’t invest in that way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“What way,</span>
   <span id="f000118">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“For big returns.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“Big.</span>
   <span id="f000121">That’s good.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Go on,</span>
   <span id="f000123">Aleck.</span>
   <span id="f000124">What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">“Coal.</span>
   <span id="f000126">The new mines.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Cannel.</span>
   <span id="f000128">I mean to put in ten thousand.</span>
   <span id="f000129">Ground floor.</span>
   <span id="f000130">When we organize,</span>
   <span id="f000131">we’ll get three shares for one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">“By George,</span>
   <span id="f000133">but it sounds good,</span>
   <span id="f000134">Aleck!</span>
   <span id="f000135">Then the shares will be worth – how much?</span>
   <span id="f000136">And when?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“About a year.</span>
   <span id="f000138">They’ll pay ten per cent.</span>
   <span id="f000139">half yearly,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and be worth thirty thousand.</span>
   <span id="f000141">I know all about it;</span>
   <span id="f000142">the advertisement is in the Cincinnati paper here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“Land,</span>
   <span id="f000144">thirty thousand for ten – in a year!</span>
   <span id="f000145">Let’s jam in the whole capital and pull out ninety!</span>
   <span id="f000146">I’ll write and subscribe right now – tomorrow it maybe too late.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">He was flying to the writing-desk,</span>
   <span id="f000148">but Aleck stopped him and put him back in his chair.</span>
   <span id="f000149">She said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“Don’t lose your head so.</span>
   <span id="f000151">WE mustn’t subscribe till we’ve got the money;</span>
   <span id="f000152">don’t you know that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">Sally’s excitement went down a degree or two,</span>
   <span id="f000154">but he was not wholly appeased.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000156">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000157">we’ll HAVE it,</span>
   <span id="f000158">you know – and so soon,</span>
   <span id="f000159">too.</span>
   <span id="f000160">He’s probably out of his troubles before this;</span>
   <span id="f000161">it’s a hundred to nothing he’s selecting his brimstone-shovel this very minute.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000163">I think – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">Aleck shuddered,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“How CAN you,</span>
   <span id="f000167">Sally!</span>
   <span id="f000168">Don’t talk in that way,</span>
   <span id="f000169">it is perfectly scandalous.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000171">well,</span>
   <span id="f000172">make it a halo,</span>
   <span id="f000173">if you like,</span>
   <span id="f000174"><em>I</em> don’t care for his outfit,</span>
   <span id="f000175">I was only just talking.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Can’t you let a person talk?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“But why should you WANT to talk in that dreadful way?</span>
   <span id="f000178">How would you like to have people talk so about YOU,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and you not cold yet?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“Not likely to be,</span>
   <span id="f000181">for ONE while,</span>
   <span id="f000182">I reckon,</span>
   <span id="f000183">if my last act was giving away money for the sake of doing somebody a harm with it.</span>
   <span id="f000184">But never mind about Tilbury,</span>
   <span id="f000185">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000186">let’s talk about something worldly.</span>
   <span id="f000187">It does seem to me that that mine is the place for the whole thirty.</span>
   <span id="f000188">What’s the objection?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“All the eggs in one basket – that’s the objection.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“All right,</span>
   <span id="f000191">if you say so.</span>
   <span id="f000192">What about the other twenty?</span>
   <span id="f000193">What do you mean to do with that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“There is no hurry;</span>
   <span id="f000195">I am going to look around before I do anything with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“All right,</span>
   <span id="f000197">if your mind’s made up,” signed Sally.</span>
   <span id="f000198">He was deep in thought awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000199">then he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“There’ll be twenty thousand profit coming from the ten a year from now.</span>
   <span id="f000201">We can spend that,</span>
   <span id="f000202">can we,</span>
   <span id="f000203">Aleck?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">Aleck shook her head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000206">dear,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000207">“it won’t sell high till we’ve had the first semi-annual dividend.</span>
   <span id="f000208">You can spend part of that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“Shucks,</span>
   <span id="f000210">only THAT – and a whole year to wait!</span>
   <span id="f000211">Confound it,</span>
   <span id="f000212">I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000214">do be patient!</span>
   <span id="f000215">It might even be declared in three months – it’s quite within the possibilities.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000217">jolly!</span>
   <span id="f000218">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000219">thanks!” and Sally jumped up and kissed his wife in gratitude.</span>
   <span id="f000220">“It’ll be three thousand – three whole thousand!</span>
   <span id="f000221">how much of it can we spend,</span>
   <span id="f000222">Aleck?</span>
   <span id="f000223">Make it liberal!</span>
   <span id="f000224">– do,</span>
   <span id="f000225">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000226">that’s a good fellow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">Aleck was pleased;</span>
   <span id="f000228">so pleased that she yielded to the pressure and conceded a sum which her judgment told her was a foolish extravagance – a thousand dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Sally kissed her half a dozen times and even in that way could not express all his joy and thankfulness.</span>
   <span id="f000230">This new access of gratitude and affection carried Aleck quite beyond the bounds of prudence,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and before she could restrain herself she had made her darling another grant – a couple of thousand out of the fifty or sixty which she meant to clear within a year of the twenty which still remained of the bequest.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The happy tears sprang to Sally’s eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000235">I want to hug you!” And he did it.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Then he got his notes and sat down and began to check off,</span>
   <span id="f000237">for first purchase,</span>
   <span id="f000238">the luxuries which he should earliest wish to secure.</span>
   <span id="f000239">“Horse – buggy – cutter – lap-robe – patent-leathers – dog – plug-hat – church-pew – stem-winder – new teeth – SAY,</span>
   <span id="f000240">Aleck!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“Ciphering away,</span>
   <span id="f000243">aren’t you?</span>
   <span id="f000244">That’s right.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Have you got the twenty thousand invested yet?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000247">there’s no hurry about that;</span>
   <span id="f000248">I must look around first,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“But you are ciphering;</span>
   <span id="f000251">what’s it about?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000253">I have to find work for the thirty thousand that comes out of the coal,</span>
   <span id="f000254">haven’t I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“Scott,</span>
   <span id="f000256">what a head!</span>
   <span id="f000257">I never thought of that.</span>
   <span id="f000258">How are you getting along?</span>
   <span id="f000259">Where have you arrived?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“Not very far – two years or three.</span>
   <span id="f000261">I’ve turned it over twice;</span>
   <span id="f000262">once in oil and once in wheat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000264">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000265">it’s splendid!</span>
   <span id="f000266">How does it aggregate?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“I think – well,</span>
   <span id="f000268">to be on the safe side,</span>
   <span id="f000269">about a hundred and eighty thousand clear,</span>
   <span id="f000270">though it will probably be more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“My!</span>
   <span id="f000272">isn’t it wonderful?</span>
   <span id="f000273">By gracious!</span>
   <span id="f000274">luck has come our way at last,</span>
   <span id="f000275">after all the hard sledding,</span>
   <span id="f000276">Aleck!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“I’m going to cash in a whole three hundred on the missionaries – what real right have we care for expenses!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">“You couldn’t do a nobler thing,</span>
   <span id="f000280">dear;</span>
   <span id="f000281">and it’s just like your generous nature,</span>
   <span id="f000282">you unselfish boy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">The praise made Sally poignantly happy,</span>
   <span id="f000284">but he was fair and just enough to say it was rightfully due to Aleck rather than to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000285">since but for her he should never have had the money.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">Then they went up to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and in their delirium of bliss they forgot and left the candle burning in the parlor.</span>
   <span id="f000288">They did not remember until they were undressed;</span>
   <span id="f000289">then Sally was for letting it burn;</span>
   <span id="f000290">he said they could afford it,</span>
   <span id="f000291">if it was a thousand.</span>
   <span id="f000292">But Aleck went down and put it out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">A good job,</span>
   <span id="f000294">too;</span>
   <span id="f000295">for on her way back she hit on a scheme that would turn the hundred and eighty thousand into half a million before it had had time to get cold.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

