<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">The little newspaper which Aleck had subscribed for was a Thursday sheet;</span>
   <span id="f000003">it would make the trip of five hundred miles from Tilbury’s village and arrive on Saturday.</span>
   <span id="f000004">Tilbury’s letter had started on Friday,</span>
   <span id="f000005">more than a day too late for the benefactor to die and get into that week’s issue,</span>
   <span id="f000006">but in plenty of time to make connection for the next output.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Thus the Fosters had to wait almost a complete week to find out whether anything of a satisfactory nature had happened to him or not.</span>
   <span id="f000008">It was a long,</span>
   <span id="f000009">long week,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and the strain was a heavy one.</span>
   <span id="f000011">The pair could hardly have borne it if their minds had not had the relief of wholesome diversion.</span>
   <span id="f000012">We have seen that they had that.</span>
   <span id="f000013">The woman was piling up fortunes right along,</span>
   <span id="f000014">the man was spending them – spending all his wife would give him a chance at,</span>
   <span id="f000015">at any rate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">At last the Saturday came,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and the WEEKLY SAGAMORE arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Mrs.&#160;Eversly Bennett was present.</span>
   <span id="f000019">She was the Presbyterian parson’s wife,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and was working the Fosters for a charity.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Talk now died a sudden death – on the Foster side.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Mrs.&#160;Bennett presently discovered that her hosts were not hearing a word she was saying;</span>
   <span id="f000023">so she got up,</span>
   <span id="f000024">wondering and indignant,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and went away.</span>
   <span id="f000026">The moment she was out of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000027">Aleck eagerly tore the wrapper from the paper,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and her eyes and Sally’s swept the columns for the death-notices.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Disappointment!</span>
   <span id="f000030">Tilbury was not anywhere mentioned.</span>
   <span id="f000031">Aleck was a Christian from the cradle,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and duty and the force of habit required her to go through the motions.</span>
   <span id="f000033">She pulled herself together and said,</span>
   <span id="f000034">with a pious two-per-cent.</span>
   <span id="f000035">trade joyousness:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“Let us be humbly thankful that he has been spared;</span>
   <span id="f000037">and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“Damn his treacherous hide,</span>
   <span id="f000039">I wish – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“Sally!</span>
   <span id="f000041">For shame!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“I don’t care!” retorted the angry man.</span>
   <span id="f000043">“It’s the way YOU feel,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and if you weren’t so immorally pious you’d be honest and say so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">Aleck said,</span>
   <span id="f000046">with wounded dignity:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“I do not see how you can say such unkind and unjust things.</span>
   <span id="f000048">There is no such thing as immoral piety.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">Sally felt a pang,</span>
   <span id="f000050">but tried to conceal it under a shuffling attempt to save his case by changing the form of it – as if changing the form while retaining the juice could deceive the expert he was trying to placate.</span>
   <span id="f000051">He said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“I didn’t mean so bad as that,</span>
   <span id="f000053">Aleck;</span>
   <span id="f000054">I didn’t really mean immoral piety,</span>
   <span id="f000055">I only meant – meant – well,</span>
   <span id="f000056">conventional piety,</span>
   <span id="f000057">you know;</span>
   <span id="f000058">er – shop piety;</span>
   <span id="f000059">the – the – why,</span>
   <span id="f000060">YOU know what I mean.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Aleck – the – well,</span>
   <span id="f000062">where you put up that plated article and play it for solid,</span>
   <span id="f000063">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000064">without intending anything improper,</span>
   <span id="f000065">but just out of trade habit,</span>
   <span id="f000066">ancient policy,</span>
   <span id="f000067">petrified custom,</span>
   <span id="f000068">loyalty to – to – hang it,</span>
   <span id="f000069">I can’t find the right words,</span>
   <span id="f000070">but YOU know what I mean,</span>
   <span id="f000071">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and that there isn’t any harm in it.</span>
   <span id="f000073">I’ll try again.</span>
   <span id="f000074">You see,</span>
   <span id="f000075">it’s this way.</span>
   <span id="f000076">If a person – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“You have said quite enough,” said Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000078">coldly;</span>
   <span id="f000079">“let the subject be dropped.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“I’M willing,” fervently responded Sally,</span>
   <span id="f000081">wiping the sweat from his forehead and looking the thankfulness he had no words for.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000083">musingly,</span>
   <span id="f000084">he apologized to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000085">“I certainly held threes – I KNOW it – but I drew and didn’t fill.</span>
   <span id="f000086">That’s where I’m so often weak in the game.</span>
   <span id="f000087">If I had stood pat – but I didn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000088">I never do.</span>
   <span id="f000089">I don’t know enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">Confessedly defeated,</span>
   <span id="f000091">he was properly tame now and subdued.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Aleck forgave him with her eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">The grand interest,</span>
   <span id="f000094">the supreme interest,</span>
   <span id="f000095">came instantly to the front again;</span>
   <span id="f000096">nothing could keep it in the background many minutes on a stretch.</span>
   <span id="f000097">The couple took up the puzzle of the absence of Tilbury’s death-notice.</span>
   <span id="f000098">They discussed it every which way,</span>
   <span id="f000099">more or less hopefully,</span>
   <span id="f000100">but they had to finish where they began,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and concede that the only really sane explanation of the absence of the notice must be – and without doubt was – that Tilbury was not dead.</span>
   <span id="f000102">There was something sad about it,</span>
   <span id="f000103">something even a little unfair,</span>
   <span id="f000104">maybe,</span>
   <span id="f000105">but there it was,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and had to be put up with.</span>
   <span id="f000107">They were agreed as to that.</span>
   <span id="f000108">To Sally it seemed a strangely inscrutable dispensation;</span>
   <span id="f000109">more inscrutable than usual,</span>
   <span id="f000110">he thought;</span>
   <span id="f000111">one of the most unnecessary inscrutable he could call to mind,</span>
   <span id="f000112">in fact – and said so,</span>
   <span id="f000113">with some feeling;</span>
   <span id="f000114">but if he was hoping to draw Aleck he failed;</span>
   <span id="f000115">she reserved her opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000116">if she had one;</span>
   <span id="f000117">she had not the habit of taking injudicious risks in any market,</span>
   <span id="f000118">worldly or other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">The pair must wait for next week’s paper – Tilbury had evidently postponed.</span>
   <span id="f000120">That was their thought and their decision.</span>
   <span id="f000121">So they put the subject away and went about their affairs again with as good heart as they could.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000123">if they had but known it,</span>
   <span id="f000124">they had been wronging Tilbury all the time.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Tilbury had kept faith,</span>
   <span id="f000126">kept it to the letter;</span>
   <span id="f000127">he was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000128">he had died to schedule.</span>
   <span id="f000129">He was dead more than four days now and used to it;</span>
   <span id="f000130">entirely dead,</span>
   <span id="f000131">perfectly dead,</span>
   <span id="f000132">as dead as any other new person in the cemetery;</span>
   <span id="f000133">dead in abundant time to get into that week’s SAGAMORE,</span>
   <span id="f000134">too,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and only shut out by an accident;</span>
   <span id="f000136">an accident which could not happen to a metropolitan journal,</span>
   <span id="f000137">but which happens easily to a poor little village rag like the SAGAMORE.</span>
   <span id="f000138">On this occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000139">just as the editorial page was being locked up,</span>
   <span id="f000140">a gratis quart of strawberry ice-water arrived from Hostetter’s Ladies and Gents Ice-Cream Parlors,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and the stickful of rather chilly regret over Tilbury’s translation got crowded out to make room for the editor’s frantic gratitude.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">On its way to the standing-galley Tilbury’s notice got pied.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Otherwise it would have gone into some future edition,</span>
   <span id="f000144">for WEEKLY SAGAMORES do not waste “live” matter,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and in their galleys “live” matter is immortal,</span>
   <span id="f000146">unless a pi accident intervenes.</span>
   <span id="f000147">But a thing that gets pied is dead,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and for such there is no resurrection;</span>
   <span id="f000149">its chance of seeing print is gone,</span>
   <span id="f000150">forever and ever.</span>
   <span id="f000151">And so,</span>
   <span id="f000152">let Tilbury like it or not,</span>
   <span id="f000153">let him rave in his grave to his fill,</span>
   <span id="f000154">no matter – no mention of his death would ever see the light in the WEEKLY SAGAMORE.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

