<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Five weeks drifted tediously along.</span>
   <span id="f000003">The SAGAMORE arrived regularly on the Saturdays,</span>
   <span id="f000004">but never once contained a mention of Tilbury Foster.</span>
   <span id="f000005">Sally’s patience broke down at this point,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000007">resentfully:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000008">“Damn his livers,</span>
   <span id="f000009">he’s immortal!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">Aleck give him a very severe rebuke,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and added with icy solemnity:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">“How would you feel if you were suddenly cut out just after such an awful remark had escaped out of you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">Without sufficient reflection Sally responded:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">“I’d feel I was lucky I hadn’t got caught with it IN me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">Pride had forced him to say something,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and as he could not think of any rational thing to say he flung that out.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Then he stole a base – as he called it – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000018">slipped from the presence,</span>
   <span id="f000019">to keep from being brayed in his wife’s discussion-mortar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">Six months came and went.</span>
   <span id="f000021">The SAGAMORE was still silent about Tilbury.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Meantime,</span>
   <span id="f000023">Sally had several times thrown out a feeler – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000024">a hint that he would like to know.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Aleck had ignored the hints.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Sally now resolved to brace up and risk a frontal attack.</span>
   <span id="f000027">So he squarely proposed to disguise himself and go to Tilbury’s village and surreptitiously find out as to the prospects.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Aleck put her foot on the dangerous project with energy and decision.</span>
   <span id="f000029">She said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“What can you be thinking of?</span>
   <span id="f000031">You do keep my hands full!</span>
   <span id="f000032">You have to be watched all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000033">like a little child,</span>
   <span id="f000034">to keep you from walking into the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000035">You’ll stay right where you are!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000037">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000038">I could do it and not be found out – I’m certain of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“Sally Foster,</span>
   <span id="f000040">don’t you know you would have to inquire around?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">“Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000042">but what of it?</span>
   <span id="f000043">Nobody would suspect who I was.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000045">listen to the man!</span>
   <span id="f000046">Some day you’ve got to prove to the executors that you never inquired.</span>
   <span id="f000047">What then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">He had forgotten that detail.</span>
   <span id="f000049">He didn’t reply;</span>
   <span id="f000050">there wasn’t anything to say.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Aleck added:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“Now then,</span>
   <span id="f000053">drop that notion out of your mind,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and don’t ever meddle with it again.</span>
   <span id="f000055">Tilbury set that trap for you.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Don’t you know it’s a trap?</span>
   <span id="f000057">He is on the watch,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and fully expecting you to blunder into it.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000060">he is going to be disappointed – at least while I am on deck.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Sally!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“Well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“As long as you live,</span>
   <span id="f000064">if it’s a hundred years,</span>
   <span id="f000065">don’t you ever make an inquiry.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Promise!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“All right,” with a sigh and reluctantly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">Then Aleck softened and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">“Don’t be impatient.</span>
   <span id="f000070">We are prospering;</span>
   <span id="f000071">we can wait;</span>
   <span id="f000072">there is no hurry.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Our small dead-certain income increases all the time;</span>
   <span id="f000074">and as to futures,</span>
   <span id="f000075">I have not made a mistake yet – they are piling up by the thousands and tens of thousands.</span>
   <span id="f000076">There is not another family in the state with such prospects as ours.</span>
   <span id="f000077">Already we are beginning to roll in eventual wealth.</span>
   <span id="f000078">You know that,</span>
   <span id="f000079">don’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000081">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000082">it’s certainly so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">“Then be grateful for what God is doing for us and stop worrying.</span>
   <span id="f000084">You do not believe we could have achieved these prodigious results without His special help and guidance,</span>
   <span id="f000085">do you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">Hesitatingly,</span>
   <span id="f000087">“N-no,</span>
   <span id="f000088">I suppose not.” Then,</span>
   <span id="f000089">with feeling and admiration,</span>
   <span id="f000090">“And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000091">when it comes to judiciousness in watering a stock or putting up a hand to skin Wall Street I don’t give in that YOU need any outside amateur help,</span>
   <span id="f000092">if I do wish I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000094">DO shut up!</span>
   <span id="f000095">I know you do not mean any harm or any irreverence,</span>
   <span id="f000096">poor boy,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but you can’t seem to open your mouth without letting out things to make a person shudder.</span>
   <span id="f000098">You keep me in constant dread.</span>
   <span id="f000099">For you and for all of us.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Once I had no fear of the thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000101">but now when I hear it I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">Her voice broke,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and she began to cry,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and could not finish.</span>
   <span id="f000105">The sight of this smote Sally to the heart and he took her in his arms and petted her and comforted her and promised better conduct,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and upbraided himself and remorsefully pleaded for forgiveness.</span>
   <span id="f000107">And he was in earnest,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and sorry for what he had done and ready for any sacrifice that could make up for it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">And so,</span>
   <span id="f000110">in privacy,</span>
   <span id="f000111">he thought long and deeply over the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000112">resolving to do what should seem best.</span>
   <span id="f000113">It was easy to PROMISE reform;</span>
   <span id="f000114">indeed he had already promised it.</span>
   <span id="f000115">But would that do any real good,</span>
   <span id="f000116">any permanent good?</span>
   <span id="f000117">No,</span>
   <span id="f000118">it would be but temporary – he knew his weakness,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and confessed it to himself with sorrow – he could not keep the promise.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Something surer and better must be devised;</span>
   <span id="f000121">and he devised it.</span>
   <span id="f000122">At cost of precious money which he had long been saving up,</span>
   <span id="f000123">shilling by shilling,</span>
   <span id="f000124">he put a lightning-rod on the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">At a subsequent time he relapsed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">What miracles habit can do!</span>
   <span id="f000127">and how quickly and how easily habits are acquired – both trifling habits and habits which profoundly change us.</span>
   <span id="f000128">If by accident we wake at two in the morning a couple of nights in succession,</span>
   <span id="f000129">we have need to be uneasy,</span>
   <span id="f000130">for another repetition can turn the accident into a habit;</span>
   <span id="f000131">and a month’s dallying with whiskey – but we all know these commonplace facts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">The castle-building habit,</span>
   <span id="f000133">the day-dreaming habit – how it grows!</span>
   <span id="f000134">what a luxury it becomes;</span>
   <span id="f000135">how we fly to its enchantments at every idle moment,</span>
   <span id="f000136">how we revel in them,</span>
   <span id="f000137">steep our souls in them,</span>
   <span id="f000138">intoxicate ourselves with their beguiling fantasies – oh yes,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and how soon and how easily our dream life and our material life become so intermingled and so fused together that we can’t quite tell which is which,</span>
   <span id="f000140">any more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">By and by Aleck subscribed to a Chicago daily and for the WALL STREET POINTER.</span>
   <span id="f000142">With an eye single to finance she studied these as diligently all the week as she studied her Bible Sundays.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Sally was lost in admiration,</span>
   <span id="f000144">to note with what swift and sure strides her genius and judgment developed and expanded in the forecasting and handling of the securities of both the material and spiritual markets.</span>
   <span id="f000145">He was proud of her nerve and daring in exploiting worldly stocks,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and just as proud of her conservative caution in working her spiritual deals.</span>
   <span id="f000147">He noted that she never lost her head in either case;</span>
   <span id="f000148">that with a splendid courage she often went short on worldly futures,</span>
   <span id="f000149">but heedfully drew the line there – she was always long on the others.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Her policy was quite sane and simple,</span>
   <span id="f000151">as she explained it to him:</span>
   <span id="f000152">what she put into earthly futures was for speculation,</span>
   <span id="f000153">what she put into spiritual futures was for investment;</span>
   <span id="f000154">she was willing to go into the one on a margin,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and take chances,</span>
   <span id="f000156">but in the case of the other,</span>
   <span id="f000157">“margin her no margins” – she wanted to cash in a hundred cents per dollar’s worth,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and have the stock transferred on the books.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">It took but a very few months to educate Aleck’s imagination and Sally’s.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Each day’s training added something to the spread and effectiveness of the two machines.</span>
   <span id="f000161">As a consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000162">Aleck made imaginary money much faster than at first she had dreamed of making it,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and Sally’s competency in spending the overflow of it kept pace with the strain put upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000164">right along.</span>
   <span id="f000165">In the beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000166">Aleck had given the coal speculation a twelvemonth in which to materialize,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and had been loath to grant that this term might possibly be shortened by nine months.</span>
   <span id="f000168">But that was the feeble work,</span>
   <span id="f000169">the nursery work,</span>
   <span id="f000170">of a financial fancy that had had no teaching,</span>
   <span id="f000171">no experience,</span>
   <span id="f000172">no practice.</span>
   <span id="f000173">These aids soon came,</span>
   <span id="f000174">then that nine months vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and the imaginary ten-thousand-dollar investment came marching home with three hundred per cent.</span>
   <span id="f000176">profit on its back!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">It was a great day for the pair of Fosters.</span>
   <span id="f000178">They were speechless for joy.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Also speechless for another reason:</span>
   <span id="f000180">after much watching of the market,</span>
   <span id="f000181">Aleck had lately,</span>
   <span id="f000182">with fear and trembling,</span>
   <span id="f000183">made her first flyer on a “margin,” using the remaining twenty thousand of the bequest in this risk.</span>
   <span id="f000184">In her mind’s eye she had seen it climb,</span>
   <span id="f000185">point by point – always with a chance that the market would break – until at last her anxieties were too great for further endurance – she being new to the margin business and unhardened,</span>
   <span id="f000186">as yet – and she gave her imaginary broker an imaginary order by imaginary telegraph to sell.</span>
   <span id="f000187">She said forty thousand dollars’ profit was enough.</span>
   <span id="f000188">The sale was made on the very day that the coal venture had returned with its rich freight.</span>
   <span id="f000189">As I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000190">the couple were speechless,</span>
   <span id="f000191">they sat dazed and blissful that night,</span>
   <span id="f000192">trying to realize that they were actually worth a hundred thousand dollars in clean,</span>
   <span id="f000193">imaginary cash.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Yet so it was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">It was the last time that ever Aleck was afraid of a margin;</span>
   <span id="f000196">at least afraid enough to let it break her sleep and pale her cheek to the extent that this first experience in that line had done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">Indeed it was a memorable night.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Gradually the realization that they were rich sank securely home into the souls of the pair,</span>
   <span id="f000199">then they began to place the money.</span>
   <span id="f000200">If we could have looked out through the eyes of these dreamers,</span>
   <span id="f000201">we should have seen their tidy little wooden house disappear,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and two-story brick with a cast-iron fence in front of it take its place;</span>
   <span id="f000203">we should have seen a three-globed gas-chandelier grow down from the parlor ceiling;</span>
   <span id="f000204">we should have seen the homely rag carpet turn to noble Brussels,</span>
   <span id="f000205">a dollar and a half a yard;</span>
   <span id="f000206">we should have seen the plebeian fireplace vanish away and a recherche,</span>
   <span id="f000207">big base-burner with isinglass windows take position and spread awe around.</span>
   <span id="f000208">And we should have seen other things,</span>
   <span id="f000209">too;</span>
   <span id="f000210">among them the buggy,</span>
   <span id="f000211">the lap-robe,</span>
   <span id="f000212">the stove-pipe hat,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and so on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">From that time forth,</span>
   <span id="f000215">although the daughters and the neighbors saw only the same old wooden house there,</span>
   <span id="f000216">it was a two-story brick to Aleck and Sally and not a night went by that Aleck did not worry about the imaginary gas-bills,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and get for all comfort Sally’s reckless retort:</span>
   <span id="f000218">“What of it?</span>
   <span id="f000219">We can afford it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">Before the couple went to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000221">that first night that they were rich,</span>
   <span id="f000222">they had decided that they must celebrate.</span>
   <span id="f000223">They must give a party – that was the idea.</span>
   <span id="f000224">But how to explain it – to the daughters and the neighbors?</span>
   <span id="f000225">They could not expose the fact that they were rich.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Sally was willing,</span>
   <span id="f000227">even anxious,</span>
   <span id="f000228">to do it;</span>
   <span id="f000229">but Aleck kept her head and would not allow it.</span>
   <span id="f000230">She said that although the money was as good as in,</span>
   <span id="f000231">it would be as well to wait until it was actually in.</span>
   <span id="f000232">On that policy she took her stand,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and would not budge.</span>
   <span id="f000234">The great secret must be kept,</span>
   <span id="f000235">she said – kept from the daughters and everybody else.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">The pair were puzzled.</span>
   <span id="f000237">They must celebrate,</span>
   <span id="f000238">they were determined to celebrate,</span>
   <span id="f000239">but since the secret must be kept,</span>
   <span id="f000240">what could they celebrate?</span>
   <span id="f000241">No birthdays were due for three months.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Tilbury wasn’t available,</span>
   <span id="f000243">evidently he was going to live forever;</span>
   <span id="f000244">what the nation COULD they celebrate?</span>
   <span id="f000245">That was Sally’s way of putting it;</span>
   <span id="f000246">and he was getting impatient,</span>
   <span id="f000247">too,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and harassed.</span>
   <span id="f000249">But at last he hit it – just by sheer inspiration,</span>
   <span id="f000250">as it seemed to him – and all their troubles were gone in a moment;</span>
   <span id="f000251">they would celebrate the Discovery of America.</span>
   <span id="f000252">A splendid idea!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">Aleck was almost too proud of Sally for words – she said SHE never would have thought of it.</span>
   <span id="f000254">But Sally,</span>
   <span id="f000255">although he was bursting with delight in the compliment and with wonder at himself,</span>
   <span id="f000256">tried not to let on,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and said it wasn’t really anything,</span>
   <span id="f000258">anybody could have done it.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Whereat Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000260">with a prideful toss of her happy head,</span>
   <span id="f000261">said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000263">certainly!</span>
   <span id="f000264">Anybody could – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000265">anybody!</span>
   <span id="f000266">Hosannah Dilkins,</span>
   <span id="f000267">for instance!</span>
   <span id="f000268">Or maybe Adelbert Peanut – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000269">DEAR – yes!</span>
   <span id="f000270">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000271">I’d like to see them try it,</span>
   <span id="f000272">that’s all.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Dear-me-suz,</span>
   <span id="f000274">if they could think of the discovery of a forty-acre island it’s more than <em>I</em> believe they could;</span>
   <span id="f000275">and as for the whole continent,</span>
   <span id="f000276">why,</span>
   <span id="f000277">Sally Foster,</span>
   <span id="f000278">you know perfectly well it would strain the livers and lights out of them and THEN they couldn’t!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">The dear woman,</span>
   <span id="f000280">she knew he had talent;</span>
   <span id="f000281">and if affection made her over-estimate the size of it a little,</span>
   <span id="f000282">surely it was a sweet and gentle crime,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and forgivable for its source’s sake.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

