<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">The celebration went off well.</span>
   <span id="f000003">The friends were all present,</span>
   <span id="f000004">both the young and the old.</span>
   <span id="f000005">Among the young were Flossie and Gracie Peanut and their brother Adelbert,</span>
   <span id="f000006">who was a rising young journeyman tinner,</span>
   <span id="f000007">also Hosannah Dilkins,</span>
   <span id="f000008">Jr.,</span>
   <span id="f000009">journeyman plasterer,</span>
   <span id="f000010">just out of his apprenticeship.</span>
   <span id="f000011">For many months Adelbert and Hosannah had been showing interest in Gwendolen and Clytemnestra Foster,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and the parents of the girls had noticed this with private satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000013">But they suddenly realized now that that feeling had passed.</span>
   <span id="f000014">They recognized that the changed financial conditions had raised up a social bar between their daughters and the young mechanics.</span>
   <span id="f000015">The daughters could now look higher – and must.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000017">must.</span>
   <span id="f000018">They need marry nothing below the grade of lawyer or merchant;</span>
   <span id="f000019">poppa and momma would take care of this;</span>
   <span id="f000020">there must be no mesalliances.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">However,</span>
   <span id="f000022">these thinkings and projects of their were private,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and did not show on the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and therefore threw no shadow upon the celebration.</span>
   <span id="f000025">What showed upon the surface was a serene and lofty contentment and a dignity of carriage and gravity of deportment which compelled the admiration and likewise the wonder of the company.</span>
   <span id="f000026">All noticed it and all commented upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000027">but none was able to divine the secret of it.</span>
   <span id="f000028">It was a marvel and a mystery.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Three several persons remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000030">without suspecting what clever shots they were making:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“It’s as if they’d come into property.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">That was just it,</span>
   <span id="f000033">indeed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">Most mothers would have taken hold of the matrimonial matter in the old regulation way;</span>
   <span id="f000035">they would have given the girls a talking to,</span>
   <span id="f000036">of a solemn sort and untactful – a lecture calculated to defeat its own purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000037">by producing tears and secret rebellion;</span>
   <span id="f000038">and the said mothers would have further damaged the business by requesting the young mechanics to discontinue their attentions.</span>
   <span id="f000039">But this mother was different.</span>
   <span id="f000040">She was practical.</span>
   <span id="f000041">She said nothing to any of the young people concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000042">nor to any one else except Sally.</span>
   <span id="f000043">He listened to her and understood;</span>
   <span id="f000044">understood and admired.</span>
   <span id="f000045">He said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“I get the idea.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Instead of finding fault with the samples on view,</span>
   <span id="f000048">thus hurting feelings and obstructing trade without occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000049">you merely offer a higher class of goods for the money,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and leave nature to take her course.</span>
   <span id="f000051">It’s wisdom,</span>
   <span id="f000052">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000053">solid wisdom,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and sound as a nut.</span>
   <span id="f000055">Who’s your fish?</span>
   <span id="f000056">Have you nominated him yet?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">No,</span>
   <span id="f000058">she hadn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000059">They must look the market over – which they did.</span>
   <span id="f000060">To start with,</span>
   <span id="f000061">they considered and discussed Brandish,</span>
   <span id="f000062">rising young lawyer,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and Fulton,</span>
   <span id="f000064">rising young dentist.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Sally must invite them to dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000066">But not right away;</span>
   <span id="f000067">there was no hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000068">Aleck said.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Keep an eye on the pair,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and wait;</span>
   <span id="f000071">nothing would be lost by going slowly in so important a matter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">It turned out that this was wisdom,</span>
   <span id="f000073">too;</span>
   <span id="f000074">for inside of three weeks Aleck made a wonderful strike which swelled her imaginary hundred thousand to four hundred thousand of the same quality.</span>
   <span id="f000075">She and Sally were in the clouds that evening.</span>
   <span id="f000076">For the first time they introduced champagne at dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000077">Not real champagne,</span>
   <span id="f000078">but plenty real enough for the amount of imagination expended on it.</span>
   <span id="f000079">It was Sally that did it,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and Aleck weakly submitted.</span>
   <span id="f000081">At bottom both were troubled and ashamed,</span>
   <span id="f000082">for he was a high-up Son of Temperance,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and at funerals wore an apron which no dog could look upon and retain his reason and his opinion;</span>
   <span id="f000084">and she was a W.</span>
   <span id="f000085">C.</span>
   <span id="f000086">T.</span>
   <span id="f000087">U.,</span>
   <span id="f000088">with all that that implies of boiler-iron virtue and unendurable holiness.</span>
   <span id="f000089">But there it was;</span>
   <span id="f000090">the pride of riches was beginning its disintegrating work.</span>
   <span id="f000091">They had lived to prove,</span>
   <span id="f000092">once more,</span>
   <span id="f000093">a sad truth which had been proven many times before in the world:</span>
   <span id="f000094">that whereas principle is a great and noble protection against showy and degrading vanities and vices,</span>
   <span id="f000095">poverty is worth six of it.</span>
   <span id="f000096">More than four hundred thousand dollars to the good.</span>
   <span id="f000097">They took up the matrimonial matter again.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Neither the dentist nor the lawyer was mentioned;</span>
   <span id="f000099">there was no occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000100">they were out of the running.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Disqualified.</span>
   <span id="f000102">They discussed the son of the pork-packer and the son of the village banker.</span>
   <span id="f000103">But finally,</span>
   <span id="f000104">as in the previous case,</span>
   <span id="f000105">they concluded to wait and think,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and go cautiously and sure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">Luck came their way again.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000109">ever watchful saw a great and risky chance,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and took a daring flyer.</span>
   <span id="f000111">A time of trembling,</span>
   <span id="f000112">of doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000113">of awful uneasiness followed,</span>
   <span id="f000114">for non-success meant absolute ruin and nothing short of it.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Then came the result,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000117">faint with joy,</span>
   <span id="f000118">could hardly control her voice when she said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“The suspense is over,</span>
   <span id="f000120">Sally – and we are worth a cold million!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">Sally wept for gratitude,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000124">Electra,</span>
   <span id="f000125">jewel of women,</span>
   <span id="f000126">darling of my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000127">we are free at last,</span>
   <span id="f000128">we roll in wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000129">we need never scrimp again.</span>
   <span id="f000130">It’s a case for Veuve Cliquot!” and he got out a pint of spruce-beer and made sacrifice,</span>
   <span id="f000131">he saying “Damn the expense,” and she rebuking him gently with reproachful but humid and happy eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">They shelved the pork-packer’s son and the banker’s son,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and sat down to consider the Governor’s son and the son of the Congressman.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

