<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter VI</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">It were a weariness to follow in detail the leaps and bounds the Foster fictitious finances took from this time forth.</span>
   <span id="f000003">It was marvelous,</span>
   <span id="f000004">it was dizzying,</span>
   <span id="f000005">it was dazzling.</span>
   <span id="f000006">Everything Aleck touched turned to fairy gold,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and heaped itself glittering toward the firmament.</span>
   <span id="f000008">Millions upon millions poured in,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and still the mighty stream flowed thundering along,</span>
   <span id="f000010">still its vast volume increased.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Five millions – ten millions – twenty – thirty – was there never to be an end?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">Two years swept by in a splendid delirium,</span>
   <span id="f000013">the intoxicated Fosters scarcely noticing the flight of time.</span>
   <span id="f000014">They were now worth three hundred million dollars;</span>
   <span id="f000015">they were in every board of directors of every prodigious combine in the country;</span>
   <span id="f000016">and still as time drifted along,</span>
   <span id="f000017">the millions went on piling up,</span>
   <span id="f000018">five at a time,</span>
   <span id="f000019">ten at a time,</span>
   <span id="f000020">as fast as they could tally them off,</span>
   <span id="f000021">almost.</span>
   <span id="f000022">The three hundred double itself – then doubled again – and yet again – and yet once more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">Twenty-four hundred millions!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">The business was getting a little confused.</span>
   <span id="f000025">It was necessary to take an account of stock,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and straighten it out.</span>
   <span id="f000027">The Fosters knew it,</span>
   <span id="f000028">they felt it,</span>
   <span id="f000029">they realized that it was imperative;</span>
   <span id="f000030">but they also knew that to do it properly and perfectly the task must be carried to a finish without a break when once it was begun.</span>
   <span id="f000031">A ten-hours’ job;</span>
   <span id="f000032">and where could THEY find ten leisure hours in a bunch?</span>
   <span id="f000033">Sally was selling pins and sugar and calico all day and every day;</span>
   <span id="f000034">Aleck was cooking and washing dishes and sweeping and making beds all day and every day,</span>
   <span id="f000035">with none to help,</span>
   <span id="f000036">for the daughters were being saved up for high society.</span>
   <span id="f000037">The Fosters knew there was one way to get the ten hours,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and only one.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Both were ashamed to name it;</span>
   <span id="f000040">each waited for the other to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000041">Finally Sally said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“Somebody’s got to give in.</span>
   <span id="f000043">It’s up to me.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Consider that I’ve named it – never mind pronouncing it out aloud.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">Aleck colored,</span>
   <span id="f000046">but was grateful.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Without further remark,</span>
   <span id="f000048">they fell.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Fell,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and – broke the Sabbath.</span>
   <span id="f000051">For that was their only free ten-hour stretch.</span>
   <span id="f000052">It was but another step in the downward path.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Others would follow.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Vast wealth has temptations which fatally and surely undermine the moral structure of persons not habituated to its possession.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">They pulled down the shades and broke the Sabbath.</span>
   <span id="f000056">With hard and patient labor they overhauled their holdings and listed them.</span>
   <span id="f000057">And a long-drawn procession of formidable names it was!</span>
   <span id="f000058">Starting with the Railway Systems,</span>
   <span id="f000059">Steamer Lines,</span>
   <span id="f000060">Standard Oil,</span>
   <span id="f000061">Ocean Cables,</span>
   <span id="f000062">Diluted Telegraph,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and all the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and winding up with Klondike,</span>
   <span id="f000065">De Beers,</span>
   <span id="f000066">Tammany Graft,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and Shady Privileges in the Post-office Department.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">Twenty-four hundred millions,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and all safely planted in Good Things,</span>
   <span id="f000070">gilt-edged and interest-bearing.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Income,</span>
   <span id="f000072">$120,000,000 a year.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Aleck fetched a long purr of soft delight,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“Is it enough?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“It is,</span>
   <span id="f000077">Aleck.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“What shall we do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“Stand pat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“Retire from business?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“That’s it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">“I am agreed.</span>
   <span id="f000083">The good work is finished;</span>
   <span id="f000084">we will take a long rest and enjoy the money.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“Good!</span>
   <span id="f000086">Aleck!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000088">dear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“How much of the income can we spend?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“The whole of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">It seemed to her husband that a ton of chains fell from his limbs.</span>
   <span id="f000092">He did not say a word;</span>
   <span id="f000093">he was happy beyond the power of speech.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">After that,</span>
   <span id="f000095">they broke the Sabbaths right along as fast as they turned up.</span>
   <span id="f000096">It is the first wrong step that counts.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Every Sunday they put in the whole day,</span>
   <span id="f000098">after morning service,</span>
   <span id="f000099">on inventions – inventions of ways to spend the money.</span>
   <span id="f000100">They got to continuing this delicious dissipation until past midnight;</span>
   <span id="f000101">and at every seance Aleck lavished millions upon great charities and religious enterprises,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and Sally lavished like sums upon matters to which</span>
   <span id="f000103">(at first)</span>
   <span id="f000104">he gave definite names.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Only at first.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Later the names gradually lost sharpness of outline,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and eventually faded into “sundries,” thus becoming entirely – but safely – undescriptive.</span>
   <span id="f000108">For Sally was crumbling.</span>
   <span id="f000109">The placing of these millions added seriously and most uncomfortably to the family expenses – in tallow candles.</span>
   <span id="f000110">For a while Aleck was worried.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000112">after a little,</span>
   <span id="f000113">she ceased to worry,</span>
   <span id="f000114">for the occasion of it was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000115">She was pained,</span>
   <span id="f000116">she was grieved,</span>
   <span id="f000117">she was ashamed;</span>
   <span id="f000118">but she said nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and so became an accessory.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Sally was taking candles;</span>
   <span id="f000121">he was robbing the store.</span>
   <span id="f000122">It is ever thus.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Vast wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000124">to the person unaccustomed to it,</span>
   <span id="f000125">is a bane;</span>
   <span id="f000126">it eats into the flesh and bone of his morals.</span>
   <span id="f000127">When the Fosters were poor,</span>
   <span id="f000128">they could have been trusted with untold candles.</span>
   <span id="f000129">But now they – but let us not dwell upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000130">From candles to apples is but a step:</span>
   <span id="f000131">Sally got to taking apples;</span>
   <span id="f000132">then soap;</span>
   <span id="f000133">then maple-sugar;</span>
   <span id="f000134">then canned goods;</span>
   <span id="f000135">then crockery.</span>
   <span id="f000136">How easy it is to go from bad to worse,</span>
   <span id="f000137">when once we have started upon a downward course!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">Meantime,</span>
   <span id="f000139">other effects had been milestoning the course of the Fosters’ splendid financial march.</span>
   <span id="f000140">The fictitious brick dwelling had given place to an imaginary granite one with a checker-board mansard roof;</span>
   <span id="f000141">in time this one disappeared and gave place to a still grander home – and so on and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Mansion after mansion,</span>
   <span id="f000143">made of air,</span>
   <span id="f000144">rose,</span>
   <span id="f000145">higher,</span>
   <span id="f000146">broader,</span>
   <span id="f000147">finer,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and each in its turn vanished away;</span>
   <span id="f000149">until now in these latter great days,</span>
   <span id="f000150">our dreamers were in fancy housed,</span>
   <span id="f000151">in a distant region,</span>
   <span id="f000152">in a sumptuous vast palace which looked out from a leafy summit upon a noble prospect of vale and river and receding hills steeped in tinted mists – and all private,</span>
   <span id="f000153">all the property of the dreamers;</span>
   <span id="f000154">a palace swarming with liveried servants,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and populous with guests of fame and power,</span>
   <span id="f000156">hailing from all the world’s capitals,</span>
   <span id="f000157">foreign and domestic.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">This palace was far,</span>
   <span id="f000159">far away toward the rising sun,</span>
   <span id="f000160">immeasurably remote,</span>
   <span id="f000161">astronomically remote,</span>
   <span id="f000162">in Newport,</span>
   <span id="f000163">Rhode Island,</span>
   <span id="f000164">Holy Land of High Society,</span>
   <span id="f000165">ineffable Domain of the American Aristocracy.</span>
   <span id="f000166">As a rule they spent a part of every Sabbath – after morning service – in this sumptuous home,</span>
   <span id="f000167">the rest of it they spent in Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000168">or in dawdling around in their private yacht.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Six days of sordid and plodding fact life at home on the ragged edge of Lakeside and straitened means,</span>
   <span id="f000170">the seventh in Fairyland – such had been their program and their habit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">In their sternly restricted fact life they remained as of old – plodding,</span>
   <span id="f000172">diligent,</span>
   <span id="f000173">careful,</span>
   <span id="f000174">practical,</span>
   <span id="f000175">economical.</span>
   <span id="f000176">They stuck loyally to the little Presbyterian Church,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and labored faithfully in its interests and stood by its high and tough doctrines with all their mental and spiritual energies.</span>
   <span id="f000178">But in their dream life they obeyed the invitations of their fancies,</span>
   <span id="f000179">whatever they might be,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and howsoever the fancies might change.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Aleck’s fancies were not very capricious,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and not frequent,</span>
   <span id="f000183">but Sally’s scattered a good deal.</span>
   <span id="f000184">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000185">in her dream life,</span>
   <span id="f000186">went over to the Episcopal camp,</span>
   <span id="f000187">on account of its large official titles;</span>
   <span id="f000188">next she became High-church on account of the candles and shows;</span>
   <span id="f000189">and next she naturally changed to Rome,</span>
   <span id="f000190">where there were cardinals and more candles.</span>
   <span id="f000191">But these excursions were a nothing to Sally’s.</span>
   <span id="f000192">His dream life was a glowing and continuous and persistent excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and he kept every part of it fresh and sparkling by frequent changes,</span>
   <span id="f000194">the religious part along with the rest.</span>
   <span id="f000195">He worked his religions hard,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and changed them with his shirt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">The liberal spendings of the Fosters upon their fancies began early in their prosperities,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and grew in prodigality step by step with their advancing fortunes.</span>
   <span id="f000199">In time they became truly enormous.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Aleck built a university or two per Sunday;</span>
   <span id="f000201">also a hospital or two;</span>
   <span id="f000202">also a Rowton hotel or so;</span>
   <span id="f000203">also a batch of churches;</span>
   <span id="f000204">now and then a cathedral;</span>
   <span id="f000205">and once,</span>
   <span id="f000206">with untimely and ill-chosen playfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000207">Sally said,</span>
   <span id="f000208">“It was a cold day when she didn’t ship a cargo of missionaries to persuade unreflecting Chinamen to trade off twenty-four carat Confucianism for counterfeit Christianity.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">This rude and unfeeling language hurt Aleck to the heart,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and she went from the presence crying.</span>
   <span id="f000211">That spectacle went to his own heart,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and in his pain and shame he would have given worlds to have those unkind words back.</span>
   <span id="f000213">She had uttered no syllable of reproach – and that cut him.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Not one suggestion that he look at his own record – and she could have made,</span>
   <span id="f000215">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000216">so many,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and such blistering ones!</span>
   <span id="f000218">Her generous silence brought a swift revenge,</span>
   <span id="f000219">for it turned his thoughts upon himself,</span>
   <span id="f000220">it summoned before him a spectral procession,</span>
   <span id="f000221">a moving vision of his life as he had been leading it these past few years of limitless prosperity,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and as he sat there reviewing it his cheeks burned and his soul was steeped in humiliation.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Look at her life – how fair it was,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and tending ever upward;</span>
   <span id="f000225">and look at his own – how frivolous,</span>
   <span id="f000226">how charged with mean vanities,</span>
   <span id="f000227">how selfish,</span>
   <span id="f000228">how empty,</span>
   <span id="f000229">how ignoble!</span>
   <span id="f000230">And its trend – never upward,</span>
   <span id="f000231">but downward,</span>
   <span id="f000232">ever downward!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">He instituted comparisons between her record and his own.</span>
   <span id="f000234">He had found fault with her – so he mused – HE!</span>
   <span id="f000235">And what could he say for himself?</span>
   <span id="f000236">When she built her first church what was he doing?</span>
   <span id="f000237">Gathering other blase multimillionaires into a Poker Club;</span>
   <span id="f000238">defiling his own palace with it;</span>
   <span id="f000239">losing hundreds of thousands to it at every sitting,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and sillily vain of the admiring notoriety it made for him.</span>
   <span id="f000241">When she was building her first university,</span>
   <span id="f000242">what was he doing?</span>
   <span id="f000243">Polluting himself with a gay and dissipated secret life in the company of other fast bloods,</span>
   <span id="f000244">multimillionaires in money and paupers in character.</span>
   <span id="f000245">When she was building her first foundling asylum,</span>
   <span id="f000246">what was he doing?</span>
   <span id="f000247">Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000248">When she was projecting her noble Society for the Purifying of the Sex,</span>
   <span id="f000249">what was he doing?</span>
   <span id="f000250">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000251">what,</span>
   <span id="f000252">indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000253">When she and the W.</span>
   <span id="f000254">C.</span>
   <span id="f000255">T.</span>
   <span id="f000256">U.</span>
   <span id="f000257">and the Woman with the Hatchet,</span>
   <span id="f000258">moving with resistless march,</span>
   <span id="f000259">were sweeping the fatal bottle from the land,</span>
   <span id="f000260">what was he doing?</span>
   <span id="f000261">Getting drunk three times a day.</span>
   <span id="f000262">When she,</span>
   <span id="f000263">builder of a hundred cathedrals,</span>
   <span id="f000264">was being gratefully welcomed and blest in papal Rome and decorated with the Golden Rose which she had so honorably earned,</span>
   <span id="f000265">what was he doing?</span>
   <span id="f000266">Breaking the bank at Monte Carlo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">He stopped.</span>
   <span id="f000268">He could go no farther;</span>
   <span id="f000269">he could not bear the rest.</span>
   <span id="f000270">He rose up,</span>
   <span id="f000271">with a great resolution upon his lips:</span>
   <span id="f000272">this secret life should be revealing,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and confessed;</span>
   <span id="f000274">no longer would he live it clandestinely,</span>
   <span id="f000275">he would go and tell her All.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">And that is what he did.</span>
   <span id="f000277">He told her All;</span>
   <span id="f000278">and wept upon her bosom;</span>
   <span id="f000279">wept,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and moaned,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and begged for her forgiveness.</span>
   <span id="f000282">It was a profound shock,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and she staggered under the blow,</span>
   <span id="f000284">but he was her own,</span>
   <span id="f000285">the core of her heart,</span>
   <span id="f000286">the blessing of her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000287">her all in all,</span>
   <span id="f000288">she could deny him nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and she forgave him.</span>
   <span id="f000290">She felt that he could never again be quite to her what he had been before;</span>
   <span id="f000291">she knew that he could only repent,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and not reform;</span>
   <span id="f000293">yet all morally defaced and decayed as he was,</span>
   <span id="f000294">was he not her own,</span>
   <span id="f000295">her very own,</span>
   <span id="f000296">the idol of her deathless worship?</span>
   <span id="f000297">She said she was his serf,</span>
   <span id="f000298">his slave,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and she opened her yearning heart and took him in.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

