<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter VII</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">One Sunday afternoon some time after this they were sailing the summer seas in their dream yacht,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and reclining in lazy luxury under the awning of the after-deck.</span>
   <span id="f000004">There was silence,</span>
   <span id="f000005">for each was busy with his own thoughts.</span>
   <span id="f000006">These seasons of silence had insensibly been growing more and more frequent of late;</span>
   <span id="f000007">the old nearness and cordiality were waning.</span>
   <span id="f000008">Sally’s terrible revelation had done its work;</span>
   <span id="f000009">Aleck had tried hard to drive the memory of it out of her mind,</span>
   <span id="f000010">but it would not go,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and the shame and bitterness of it were poisoning her gracious dream life.</span>
   <span id="f000012">She could see now</span>
   <span id="f000013">(on Sundays)</span>
   <span id="f000014">that her husband was becoming a bloated and repulsive Thing.</span>
   <span id="f000015">She could not close her eyes to this,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and in these days she no longer looked at him,</span>
   <span id="f000017">Sundays,</span>
   <span id="f000018">when she could help it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">But she – was she herself without blemish?</span>
   <span id="f000020">Alas,</span>
   <span id="f000021">she knew she was not.</span>
   <span id="f000022">She was keeping a secret from him,</span>
   <span id="f000023">she was acting dishonorably toward him,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and many a pang it was costing her.</span>
   <span id="f000025">SHE WAS BREAKING THE COMPACT,</span>
   <span id="f000026">AND CONCEALING IT FROM HIM.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Under strong temptation she had gone into business again;</span>
   <span id="f000028">she had risked their whole fortune in a purchase of all the railway systems and coal and steel companies in the country on a margin,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and she was now trembling,</span>
   <span id="f000030">every Sabbath hour,</span>
   <span id="f000031">lest through some chance word of hers he find it out.</span>
   <span id="f000032">In her misery and remorse for this treachery she could not keep her heart from going out to him in pity;</span>
   <span id="f000033">she was filled with compunctions to see him lying there,</span>
   <span id="f000034">drunk and contented,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and ever suspecting.</span>
   <span id="f000036">Never suspecting – trusting her with a perfect and pathetic trust,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and she holding over him by a thread a possible calamity of so devastating a –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“SAY – Aleck?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">The interrupting words brought her suddenly to herself.</span>
   <span id="f000040">She was grateful to have that persecuting subject from her thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and she answered,</span>
   <span id="f000042">with much of the old-time tenderness in her tone:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000044">dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">“Do you know,</span>
   <span id="f000046">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000047">I think we are making a mistake – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000048">you are.</span>
   <span id="f000049">I mean about the marriage business.” He sat up,</span>
   <span id="f000050">fat and froggy and benevolent,</span>
   <span id="f000051">like a bronze Buddha,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and grew earnest.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“Consider – it’s more than five years.</span>
   <span id="f000054">You’ve continued the same policy from the start:</span>
   <span id="f000055">with every rise,</span>
   <span id="f000056">always holding on for five points higher.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Always when I think we are going to have some weddings,</span>
   <span id="f000058">you see a bigger thing ahead,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and I undergo another disappointment.</span>
   <span id="f000060"><em>I</em> think you are too hard to please.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Some day we’ll get left.</span>
   <span id="f000062">First,</span>
   <span id="f000063">we turned down the dentist and the lawyer.</span>
   <span id="f000064">That was all right – it was sound.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Next,</span>
   <span id="f000066">we turned down the banker’s son and the pork-butcher’s heir – right again,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and sound.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Next,</span>
   <span id="f000069">we turned down the Congressman’s son and the Governor’s – right as a trivet,</span>
   <span id="f000070">I confess it.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Next the Senator’s son and the son of the Vice-President of the United States – perfectly right,</span>
   <span id="f000072">there’s no permanency about those little distinctions.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Then you went for the aristocracy;</span>
   <span id="f000074">and I thought we had struck oil at last – yes.</span>
   <span id="f000075">We would make a plunge at the Four Hundred,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and pull in some ancient lineage,</span>
   <span id="f000077">venerable,</span>
   <span id="f000078">holy,</span>
   <span id="f000079">ineffable,</span>
   <span id="f000080">mellow with the antiquity of a hundred and fifty years,</span>
   <span id="f000081">disinfected of the ancestral odors of salt-cod and pelts all of a century ago,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and unsmirched by a day’s work since,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and then!</span>
   <span id="f000084">why,</span>
   <span id="f000085">then the marriages,</span>
   <span id="f000086">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000087">But no,</span>
   <span id="f000088">along comes a pair of real aristocrats from Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and straightway you throw over the half-breeds.</span>
   <span id="f000090">It was awfully discouraging,</span>
   <span id="f000091">Aleck!</span>
   <span id="f000092">Since then,</span>
   <span id="f000093">what a procession!</span>
   <span id="f000094">You turned down the baronets for a pair of barons;</span>
   <span id="f000095">you turned down the barons for a pair of viscounts;</span>
   <span id="f000096">the viscounts for a pair of earls;</span>
   <span id="f000097">the earls for a pair of marquises;</span>
   <span id="f000098">the marquises for a brace of dukes.</span>
   <span id="f000099">NOW,</span>
   <span id="f000100">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000101">cash in!</span>
   <span id="f000102">– you’ve played the limit.</span>
   <span id="f000103">You’ve got a job lot of four dukes under the hammer;</span>
   <span id="f000104">of four nationalities;</span>
   <span id="f000105">all sound in the wind and limb and pedigree,</span>
   <span id="f000106">all bankrupt and in debt up to the ears.</span>
   <span id="f000107">They come high,</span>
   <span id="f000108">but we can afford it.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000110">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000111">don’t delay any longer,</span>
   <span id="f000112">don’t keep up the suspense:</span>
   <span id="f000113">take the whole lay-out,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and leave the girls to choose!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">Aleck had been smiling blandly and contentedly all through this arraignment of her marriage policy,</span>
   <span id="f000116">a pleasant light,</span>
   <span id="f000117">as of triumph with perhaps a nice surprise peeping out through it,</span>
   <span id="f000118">rose in her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and she said,</span>
   <span id="f000120">as calmly as she could:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“Sally,</span>
   <span id="f000122">what would you say to – ROYALTY?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">Prodigious!</span>
   <span id="f000124">Poor man,</span>
   <span id="f000125">it knocked him silly,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and he fell over the garboard-strake and barked his shin on the cat-heads.</span>
   <span id="f000127">He was dizzy for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000128">then he gathered himself up and limped over and sat down by his wife and beamed his old-time admiration and affection upon her in floods,</span>
   <span id="f000129">out of his bleary eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“By George!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000131">fervently,</span>
   <span id="f000132">“Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000133">you ARE great – the greatest woman in the whole earth!</span>
   <span id="f000134">I can’t ever learn the whole size of you.</span>
   <span id="f000135">I can’t ever learn the immeasurable deeps of you.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Here I’ve been considering myself qualified to criticize your game.</span>
   <span id="f000137"><em>I!</em> Why,</span>
   <span id="f000138">if I had stopped to think,</span>
   <span id="f000139">I’d have known you had a lone hand up your sleeve.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000141">dear heart,</span>
   <span id="f000142">I’m all red-hot impatience – tell me about it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">The flattered and happy woman put her lips to his ear and whispered a princely name.</span>
   <span id="f000144">It made him catch his breath,</span>
   <span id="f000145">it lit his face with exultation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“Land!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000147">“it’s a stunning catch!</span>
   <span id="f000148">He’s got a gambling-hall,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and a graveyard,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and a bishop,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and a cathedral – all his very own.</span>
   <span id="f000152">And all gilt-edged five-hundred-per-cent.</span>
   <span id="f000153">stock,</span>
   <span id="f000154">every detail of it;</span>
   <span id="f000155">the tidiest little property in Europe;</span>
   <span id="f000156">and that graveyard – it’s the selectest in the world:</span>
   <span id="f000157">none but suicides admitted;</span>
   <span id="f000158">YES,</span>
   <span id="f000159">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and the free-list suspended,</span>
   <span id="f000161">too,</span>
   <span id="f000162">ALL the time.</span>
   <span id="f000163">There isn’t much land in the principality,</span>
   <span id="f000164">but there’s enough:</span>
   <span id="f000165">eight hundred acres in the graveyard and forty-two outside.</span>
   <span id="f000166">It’s a SOVEREIGNTY – that’s the main thing;</span>
   <span id="f000167">LAND’S nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000168">There’s plenty land,</span>
   <span id="f000169">Sahara’s drugged with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">Aleck glowed;</span>
   <span id="f000171">she was profoundly happy.</span>
   <span id="f000172">She said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000174">Sally – it is a family that has never married outside the Royal and Imperial Houses of Europe:</span>
   <span id="f000175">our grandchildren will sit upon thrones!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“True as you live,</span>
   <span id="f000177">Aleck – and bear scepters,</span>
   <span id="f000178">too;</span>
   <span id="f000179">and handle them as naturally and nonchantly as I handle a yardstick.</span>
   <span id="f000180">It’s a grand catch,</span>
   <span id="f000181">Aleck.</span>
   <span id="f000182">He’s corralled,</span>
   <span id="f000183">is he?</span>
   <span id="f000184">Can’t get away?</span>
   <span id="f000185">You didn’t take him on a margin?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Trust me for that.</span>
   <span id="f000188">He’s not a liability,</span>
   <span id="f000189">he’s an asset.</span>
   <span id="f000190">So is the other one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“Who is it,</span>
   <span id="f000192">Aleck?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“His Royal Highness Sigismund-Siegfriend-Lauenfeld-Dinkelspiel-Schwartzenberg Blutwurst,</span>
   <span id="f000194">Hereditary Grant Duke of Katzenyammer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“No!</span>
   <span id="f000196">You can’t mean it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“It’s as true as I’m sitting here,</span>
   <span id="f000198">I give you my word,” she answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">His cup was full,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and he hugged her to his heart with rapture,</span>
   <span id="f000201">saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“How wonderful it all seems,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and how beautiful!</span>
   <span id="f000204">It’s one of the oldest and noblest of the three hundred and sixty-four ancient German principalities,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and one of the few that was allowed to retain its royal estate when Bismarck got done trimming them.</span>
   <span id="f000206">I know that farm,</span>
   <span id="f000207">I’ve been there.</span>
   <span id="f000208">It’s got a rope-walk and a candle-factory and an army.</span>
   <span id="f000209">Standing army.</span>
   <span id="f000210">Infantry and cavalry.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Three soldier and a horse.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000213">it’s been a long wait,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and full of heartbreak and hope deferred,</span>
   <span id="f000215">but God knows I am happy now.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Happy,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and grateful to you,</span>
   <span id="f000218">my own,</span>
   <span id="f000219">who have done it all.</span>
   <span id="f000220">When is it to be?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">“Next Sunday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“Good.</span>
   <span id="f000223">And we’ll want to do these weddings up in the very regalest style that’s going.</span>
   <span id="f000224">It’s properly due to the royal quality of the parties of the first part.</span>
   <span id="f000225">Now as I understand it,</span>
   <span id="f000226">there is only one kind of marriage that is sacred to royalty,</span>
   <span id="f000227">exclusive to royalty:</span>
   <span id="f000228">it’s the morganatic.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“What do they call it that for,</span>
   <span id="f000230">Sally?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">“I don’t know;</span>
   <span id="f000232">but anyway it’s royal,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and royal only.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“Then we will insist upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000235">More – I will compel it.</span>
   <span id="f000236">It is morganatic marriage or none.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“That settles it!” said Sally,</span>
   <span id="f000238">rubbing his hands with delight.</span>
   <span id="f000239">“And it will be the very first in America.</span>
   <span id="f000240">Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000241">it will make Newport sick.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">Then they fell silent,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and drifted away upon their dream wings to the far regions of the earth to invite all the crowned heads and their families and provide gratis transportation to them.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

