<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter VIII</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">During three days the couple walked upon air,</span>
   <span id="f000003">with their heads in the clouds.</span>
   <span id="f000004">They were but vaguely conscious of their surroundings;</span>
   <span id="f000005">they saw all things dimly,</span>
   <span id="f000006">as through a veil;</span>
   <span id="f000007">they were steeped in dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000008">often they did not hear when they were spoken to;</span>
   <span id="f000009">they often did not understand when they heard;</span>
   <span id="f000010">they answered confusedly or at random;</span>
   <span id="f000011">Sally sold molasses by weight,</span>
   <span id="f000012">sugar by the yard,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and furnished soap when asked for candles,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and Aleck put the cat in the wash and fed milk to the soiled linen.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Everybody was stunned and amazed,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and went about muttering,</span>
   <span id="f000017">“What CAN be the matter with the Fosters?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">Three days.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Then came events!</span>
   <span id="f000020">Things had taken a happy turn,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and for forty-eight hours Aleck’s imaginary corner had been booming.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Up – up – still up!</span>
   <span id="f000023">Cost point was passed.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Still up – and up – and up!</span>
   <span id="f000025">Cost point was passed.</span>
   <span id="f000026">STill up – and up – and up!</span>
   <span id="f000027">Five points above cost – then ten – fifteen – twenty!</span>
   <span id="f000028">Twenty points cold profit on the vast venture,</span>
   <span id="f000029">now,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and Aleck’s imaginary brokers were shouting frantically by imaginary long-distance,</span>
   <span id="f000031">“Sell!</span>
   <span id="f000032">sell!</span>
   <span id="f000033">for Heaven’s sake SELL!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">She broke the splendid news to Sally,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and he,</span>
   <span id="f000036">too,</span>
   <span id="f000037">said,</span>
   <span id="f000038">“Sell!</span>
   <span id="f000039">sell – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000040">don’t make a blunder,</span>
   <span id="f000041">now,</span>
   <span id="f000042">you own the earth!</span>
   <span id="f000043">– sell,</span>
   <span id="f000044">sell!” But she set her iron will and lashed it amidships,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and said she would hold on for five points more if she died for it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">It was a fatal resolve.</span>
   <span id="f000047">The very next day came the historic crash,</span>
   <span id="f000048">the record crash,</span>
   <span id="f000049">the devastating crash,</span>
   <span id="f000050">when the bottom fell out of Wall Street,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and the whole body of gilt-edged stocks dropped ninety-five points in five hours,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and the multimillionaire was seen begging his bread in the Bowery.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Aleck sternly held her grip and “put up” as long as she could,</span>
   <span id="f000054">but at last there came a call which she was powerless to meet,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and her imaginary brokers sold her out.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and not till then,</span>
   <span id="f000058">the man in her was vanished,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and the woman in her resumed sway.</span>
   <span id="f000060">She put her arms about her husband’s neck and wept,</span>
   <span id="f000061">saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“I am to blame,</span>
   <span id="f000063">do not forgive me,</span>
   <span id="f000064">I cannot bear it.</span>
   <span id="f000065">We are paupers!</span>
   <span id="f000066">Paupers,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and I am so miserable.</span>
   <span id="f000068">The weddings will never come off;</span>
   <span id="f000069">all that is past;</span>
   <span id="f000070">we could not even buy the dentist,</span>
   <span id="f000071">now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">A bitter reproach was on Sally’s tongue:</span>
   <span id="f000073">“I BEGGED you to sell,</span>
   <span id="f000074">but you – ” He did not say it;</span>
   <span id="f000075">he had not the heart to add a hurt to that broken and repentant spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000076">A nobler thought came to him and he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“Bear up,</span>
   <span id="f000078">my Aleck,</span>
   <span id="f000079">all is not lost!</span>
   <span id="f000080">You really never invested a penny of my uncle’s bequest,</span>
   <span id="f000081">but only its unmaterialized future;</span>
   <span id="f000082">what we have lost was only the incremented harvest from that future by your incomparable financial judgment and sagacity.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Cheer up,</span>
   <span id="f000084">banish these griefs;</span>
   <span id="f000085">we still have the thirty thousand untouched;</span>
   <span id="f000086">and with the experience which you have acquired,</span>
   <span id="f000087">think what you will be able to do with it in a couple years!</span>
   <span id="f000088">The marriages are not off,</span>
   <span id="f000089">they are only postponed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">These are blessed words.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Aleck saw how true they were,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and their influence was electric;</span>
   <span id="f000093">her tears ceased to flow,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and her great spirit rose to its full stature again.</span>
   <span id="f000095">With flashing eye and grateful heart,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and with hand uplifted in pledge and prophecy,</span>
   <span id="f000097">she said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“Now and here I proclaim – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">But she was interrupted by a visitor.</span>
   <span id="f000100">It was the editor and proprietor of the SAGAMORE.</span>
   <span id="f000101">He had happened into Lakeside to pay a duty-call upon an obscure grandmother of his who was nearing the end of her pilgrimage,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and with the idea of combining business with grief he had looked up the Fosters,</span>
   <span id="f000103">who had been so absorbed in other things for the past four years that they neglected to pay up their subscription.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Six dollars due.</span>
   <span id="f000105">No visitor could have been more welcome.</span>
   <span id="f000106">He would know all about Uncle Tilbury and what his chances might be getting to be,</span>
   <span id="f000107">cemeterywards.</span>
   <span id="f000108">They could,</span>
   <span id="f000109">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000110">ask no questions,</span>
   <span id="f000111">for that would squelch the bequest,</span>
   <span id="f000112">but they could nibble around on the edge of the subject and hope for results.</span>
   <span id="f000113">The scheme did not work.</span>
   <span id="f000114">The obtuse editor did not know he was being nibbled at;</span>
   <span id="f000115">but at last,</span>
   <span id="f000116">chance accomplished what art had failed in.</span>
   <span id="f000117">In illustration of something under discussion which required the help of metaphor,</span>
   <span id="f000118">the editor said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“Land,</span>
   <span id="f000120">it’s a tough as Tilbury Foster!</span>
   <span id="f000121">– as WE say.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">It was sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and it made the Fosters jump.</span>
   <span id="f000124">The editor noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000126">apologetically:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“No harm intended,</span>
   <span id="f000128">I assure you.</span>
   <span id="f000129">It’s just a saying;</span>
   <span id="f000130">just a joke,</span>
   <span id="f000131">you know – nothing of it.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Relation of yours?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">Sally crowded his burning eagerness down,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and answered with all the indifference he could assume:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“I – well,</span>
   <span id="f000136">not that I know of,</span>
   <span id="f000137">but we’ve heard of him.” The editor was thankful,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and resumed his composure.</span>
   <span id="f000139">Sally added:</span>
   <span id="f000140">“Is he – is he – well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“Is he WELL?</span>
   <span id="f000142">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000143">bless you he’s in Sheol these five years!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">The Fosters were trembling with grief,</span>
   <span id="f000145">though it felt like joy.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Sally said,</span>
   <span id="f000147">non-committally – and tentatively:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000149">well,</span>
   <span id="f000150">such is life,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and none can escape – not even the rich are spared.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">The editor laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“If you are including Tilbury,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000154">“it don’t apply.</span>
   <span id="f000155">HE hadn’t a cent;</span>
   <span id="f000156">the town had to bury him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">The Fosters sat petrified for two minutes;</span>
   <span id="f000158">petrified and cold.</span>
   <span id="f000159">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000160">white-faced and weak-voiced,</span>
   <span id="f000161">Sally asked:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Is it true?</span>
   <span id="f000163">Do you KNOW it to be true?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000165">I should say!</span>
   <span id="f000166">I was one of the executors.</span>
   <span id="f000167">He hadn’t anything to leave but a wheelbarrow,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and he left that to me.</span>
   <span id="f000169">It hadn’t any wheel,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and wasn’t any good.</span>
   <span id="f000171">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000172">it was something,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000174">to square up,</span>
   <span id="f000175">I scribbled off a sort of a little obituarial send-off for him,</span>
   <span id="f000176">but it got crowded out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">The Fosters were not listening – their cup was full,</span>
   <span id="f000178">it could contain no more.</span>
   <span id="f000179">They sat with bowed heads,</span>
   <span id="f000180">dead to all things but the ache at their hearts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">An hour later.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Still they sat there,</span>
   <span id="f000183">bowed,</span>
   <span id="f000184">motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000185">silent,</span>
   <span id="f000186">the visitor long ago gone,</span>
   <span id="f000187">they unaware.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">Then they stirred,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and lifted their heads wearily,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and gazed at each other wistfully,</span>
   <span id="f000191">dreamily,</span>
   <span id="f000192">dazed;</span>
   <span id="f000193">then presently began to twaddle to each other in a wandering and childish way.</span>
   <span id="f000194">At intervals they lapsed into silences,</span>
   <span id="f000195">leaving a sentence unfinished,</span>
   <span id="f000196">seemingly either unaware of it or losing their way.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000198">when they woke out of these silences they had a dim and transient consciousness that something had happened to their minds;</span>
   <span id="f000199">then with a dumb and yearning solicitude they would softly caress each other’s hands in mutual compassion and support,</span>
   <span id="f000200">as if they would say:</span>
   <span id="f000201">“I am near you,</span>
   <span id="f000202">I will not forsake you,</span>
   <span id="f000203">we will bear it together;</span>
   <span id="f000204">somewhere there is release and forgetfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000205">somewhere there is a grave and peace;</span>
   <span id="f000206">be patient,</span>
   <span id="f000207">it will not be long.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">They lived yet two years,</span>
   <span id="f000209">in mental night,</span>
   <span id="f000210">always brooding,</span>
   <span id="f000211">steeped in vague regrets and melancholy dreams,</span>
   <span id="f000212">never speaking;</span>
   <span id="f000213">then release came to both on the same day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">Toward the end the darkness lifted from Sally’s ruined mind for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“Vast wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000217">acquired by sudden and unwholesome means,</span>
   <span id="f000218">is a snare.</span>
   <span id="f000219">It did us no good,</span>
   <span id="f000220">transient were its feverish pleasures;</span>
   <span id="f000221">yet for its sake we threw away our sweet and simple and happy life – let others take warning by us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">He lay silent awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000223">with closed eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000224">then as the chill of death crept upward toward his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and consciousness was fading from his brain,</span>
   <span id="f000226">he muttered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“Money had brought him misery,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and he took his revenge upon us,</span>
   <span id="f000229">who had done him no harm.</span>
   <span id="f000230">He had his desire:</span>
   <span id="f000231">with base and cunning calculation he left us but thirty thousand,</span>
   <span id="f000232">knowing we would try to increase it,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and ruin our life and break our hearts.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Without added expense he could have left us far above desire of increase,</span>
   <span id="f000235">far above the temptation to speculate,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and a kinder soul would have done it;</span>
   <span id="f000237">but in him was no generous spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000238">no pity,</span>
   <span id="f000239">no – ”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

