<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>mb</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Flappers and Philosophers</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Benediction</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000008">I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000009">The Baltimore Station was hot and crowded,</span>
   <span id="f000010">so Lois was forced to stand by the telegraph desk for interminable,</span>
   <span id="f000011">sticky seconds while a clerk with big front teeth counted and recounted a large lady’s day message,</span>
   <span id="f000012">to determine whether it contained the innocuous forty-nine words or the fatal fifty-one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000014">waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000015">decided she wasn’t quite sure of the address,</span>
   <span id="f000016">so she took the letter out of her bag and ran over it again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“Darling,” IT BEGAN – "I understand and I’m happier than life ever meant me to be.</span>
   <span id="f000018">If I could give you the things you’ve always been in tune with – but I can’t Lois;</span>
   <span id="f000019">we can’t marry and we can’t lose each other and let all this glorious love end in nothing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">Until your letter came,</span>
   <span id="f000021">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000022">I’d been sitting here in the half dark and thinking where I could go and ever forget you;</span>
   <span id="f000023">abroad,</span>
   <span id="f000024">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000025">to drift through Italy or Spain and dream away the pain of having lost you where the crumbling ruins of older,</span>
   <span id="f000026">mellower civilizations would mirror only the desolation of my heart – and then your letter came.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000027">Sweetest,</span>
   <span id="f000028">bravest girl,</span>
   <span id="f000029">if you’ll wire me I’ll meet you in Wilmington – till then I’ll be here just waiting and hoping for every long dream of you to come true.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“Howard.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000031">She had read the letter so many times that she knew it word by word,</span>
   <span id="f000032">yet it still startled her.</span>
   <span id="f000033">In it she found many faint reflections of the man who wrote it – the mingled sweetness and sadness in his dark eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000034">the furtive,</span>
   <span id="f000035">restless excitement she felt sometimes when he talked to her,</span>
   <span id="f000036">his dreamy sensuousness that lulled her mind to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Lois was nineteen and very romantic and curious and courageous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">The large lady and the clerk having compromised on fifty words,</span>
   <span id="f000039">Lois took a blank and wrote her telegram.</span>
   <span id="f000040">And there were no overtones to the finality of her decision.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">It’s just destiny – she thought – it’s just the way things work out in this damn world.</span>
   <span id="f000042">If cowardice is all that’s been holding me back there won’t be any more holding back.</span>
   <span id="f000043">So we’ll just let things take their course and never be sorry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">The clerk scanned her telegram:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000045">Arrived Baltimore today spend day with my brother meet me Wilmington three P.M.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Wednesday Love</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“Lois.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000048">“Fifty-four cents,” said the clerk admiringly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">And never be sorry – thought Lois – and never be sorry –</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000050">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000051">Trees filtering light onto dapple grass.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Trees like tall,</span>
   <span id="f000053">languid ladies with feather fans coquetting airily with the ugly roof of the monastery.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Trees like butlers,</span>
   <span id="f000055">bending courteously over placid walks and paths.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Trees,</span>
   <span id="f000057">trees over the hills on either side and scattering out in clumps and lines and woods all through eastern Maryland,</span>
   <span id="f000058">delicate lace on the hems of many yellow fields,</span>
   <span id="f000059">dark opaque backgrounds for flowered bushes or wild climbing garden.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">Some of the trees were very gay and young,</span>
   <span id="f000061">but the monastery trees were older than the monastery which,</span>
   <span id="f000062">by true monastic standards,</span>
   <span id="f000063">wasn’t very old at all.</span>
   <span id="f000064">And,</span>
   <span id="f000065">as a matter of fact,</span>
   <span id="f000066">it wasn’t technically called a monastery,</span>
   <span id="f000067">but only a seminary;</span>
   <span id="f000068">nevertheless it shall be a monastery here despite its Victorian architecture or its Edward VII additions,</span>
   <span id="f000069">or even its Woodrow Wilsonian,</span>
   <span id="f000070">patented,</span>
   <span id="f000071">last-a-century roofing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Out behind was the farm where half a dozen lay brothers were sweating lustily as they moved with deadly efficiency around the vegetable-gardens.</span>
   <span id="f000073">To the left,</span>
   <span id="f000074">behind a row of elms,</span>
   <span id="f000075">was an informal baseball diamond where three novices were being batted out by a fourth,</span>
   <span id="f000076">amid great chasings and puffings and blowings.</span>
   <span id="f000077">And in front as a great mellow bell boomed the half-hour a swarm of black,</span>
   <span id="f000078">human leaves were blown over the checker-board of paths under the courteous trees.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">Some of these black leaves were very old with cheeks furrowed like the first ripples of a splashed pool.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Then there was a scattering of middle-aged leaves whose forms when viewed in profile in their revealing gowns were beginning to be faintly unsymmetrical.</span>
   <span id="f000081">These carried thick volumes of Thomas Aquinas and Henry James and Cardinal Mercier and Immanuel Kant and many bulging note-books filled with lecture data.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">But most numerous were the young leaves;</span>
   <span id="f000083">blond boys of nineteen with very stern,</span>
   <span id="f000084">conscientious expressions;</span>
   <span id="f000085">men in the late twenties with a keen self-assurance from having taught out in the world for five years – several hundreds of them,</span>
   <span id="f000086">from city and town and country in Maryland and Pennsylvania and Virginia and West Virginia and Delaware.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">There were many Americans and some Irish and some tough Irish and a few French,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and several Italians and Poles,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and they walked informally arm in arm with each other in twos and threes or in long rows,</span>
   <span id="f000090">almost universally distinguished by the straight mouth and the considerable chin – for this was the Society of Jesus,</span>
   <span id="f000091">founded in Spain five hundred years before by a tough-minded soldier who trained men to hold a breach or a salon,</span>
   <span id="f000092">preach a sermon or write a treaty,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and do it and not argue…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">Lois got out of a bus into the sunshine down by the outer gate.</span>
   <span id="f000095">She was nineteen with yellow hair and eyes that people were tactful enough not to call green.</span>
   <span id="f000096">When men of talent saw her in a street-car they often furtively produced little stub-pencils and backs of envelopes and tried to sum up that profile or the thing that the eyebrows did to her eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Later they looked at their results and usually tore them up with wondering sighs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Though Lois was very jauntily attired in an expensively appropriate travelling affair,</span>
   <span id="f000099">she did not linger to pat out the dust which covered her clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000100">but started up the central walk with curious glances at either side.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Her face was very eager and expectant,</span>
   <span id="f000102">yet she hadn’t at all that glorified expression that girls wear when they arrive for a Senior Prom at Princeton or New Haven;</span>
   <span id="f000103">still,</span>
   <span id="f000104">as there were no senior proms here,</span>
   <span id="f000105">perhaps it didn’t matter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">She was wondering what he would look like,</span>
   <span id="f000107">whether she’d possibly know him from his picture.</span>
   <span id="f000108">In the picture,</span>
   <span id="f000109">which hung over her mother’s bureau at home,</span>
   <span id="f000110">he seemed very young and hollow-cheeked and rather pitiful,</span>
   <span id="f000111">with only a well-developed mouth and all ill-fitting probationer’s gown to show that he had already made a momentous decision about his life.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Of course he had been only nineteen then and now he was thirty-six – didn’t look like that at all;</span>
   <span id="f000113">in recent snap-shots he was much broader and his hair had grown a little thin – but the impression of her brother she had always retained was that of the big picture.</span>
   <span id="f000114">And so she had always been a little sorry for him.</span>
   <span id="f000115">What a life for a man!</span>
   <span id="f000116">Seventeen years of preparation and he wasn’t even a priest yet – wouldn’t be for another year.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">Lois had an idea that this was all going to be rather solemn if she let it be.</span>
   <span id="f000118">But she was going to give her very best imitation of undiluted sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000119">the imitation she could give even when her head was splitting or when her mother had a nervous breakdown or when she was particularly romantic and curious and courageous.</span>
   <span id="f000120">This brother of hers undoubtedly needed cheering up,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and he was going to be cheered up,</span>
   <span id="f000122">whether he liked it or not.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">As she drew near the great,</span>
   <span id="f000124">homely front door she saw a man break suddenly away from a group and,</span>
   <span id="f000125">pulling up the skirts of his gown,</span>
   <span id="f000126">run toward her.</span>
   <span id="f000127">He was smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000128">she noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and he looked very big and – and reliable.</span>
   <span id="f000130">She stopped and waited,</span>
   <span id="f000131">knew that her heart was beating unusually fast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">“Lois!” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and in a second she was in his arms.</span>
   <span id="f000134">She was suddenly trembling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“Lois!” he cried again,</span>
   <span id="f000136">“why,</span>
   <span id="f000137">this is wonderful!</span>
   <span id="f000138">I can’t tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000139">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000140">how MUCH I’ve looked forward to this.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000142">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000143">you’re beautiful!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">Lois gasped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">His voice,</span>
   <span id="f000146">though restrained,</span>
   <span id="f000147">was vibrant with energy and that odd sort of enveloping personality she had thought that she only of the family possessed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“I’m mighty glad,</span>
   <span id="f000149">too – Kieth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">She flushed,</span>
   <span id="f000151">but not unhappily,</span>
   <span id="f000152">at this first use of his name.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“Lois – Lois – Lois,” he repeated in wonder.</span>
   <span id="f000154">“Child,</span>
   <span id="f000155">we’ll go in here a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000156">because I want you to meet the rector,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and then we’ll walk around.</span>
   <span id="f000158">I have a thousand things to talk to you about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">His voice became graver.</span>
   <span id="f000160">“How’s mother?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">She looked at him for a moment and then said something that she had not intended to say at all,</span>
   <span id="f000162">the very sort of thing she had resolved to avoid.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000164">Kieth – she’s – she’s getting worse all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000165">every way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">He nodded slowly as if he understood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“Nervous,</span>
   <span id="f000168">well – you can tell me about that later.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Now – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">She was in a small study with a large desk,</span>
   <span id="f000171">saying something to a little,</span>
   <span id="f000172">jovial,</span>
   <span id="f000173">white-haired priest who retained her hand for some seconds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“So this is Lois!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">He said it as if he had heard of her for years.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">He entreated her to sit down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">Two other priests arrived enthusiastically and shook hands with her and addressed her as “Kieth’s little sister,” which she found she didn’t mind a bit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">How assured they seemed;</span>
   <span id="f000179">she had expected a certain shyness,</span>
   <span id="f000180">reserve at least.</span>
   <span id="f000181">There were several jokes unintelligible to her,</span>
   <span id="f000182">which seemed to delight every one,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and the little Father Rector referred to the trio of them as “dim old monks,” which she appreciated,</span>
   <span id="f000184">because of course they weren’t monks at all.</span>
   <span id="f000185">She had a lightning impression that they were especially fond of Kieth – the Father Rector had called him “Kieth” and one of the others had kept a hand on his shoulder all through the conversation.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Then she was shaking hands again and promising to come back a little later for some ice-cream,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and smiling and smiling and being rather absurdly happy…</span>
   <span id="f000188">she told herself that it was because Kieth was so delighted in showing her off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">Then she and Kieth were strolling along a path,</span>
   <span id="f000190">arm in arm,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and he was informing her what an absolute jewel the Father Rector was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“Lois,” he broke off suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000193">“I want to tell you before we go any farther how much it means to me to have you come up here.</span>
   <span id="f000194">I think it was – mighty sweet of you.</span>
   <span id="f000195">I know what a gay time you’ve been having.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">Lois gasped.</span>
   <span id="f000197">She was not prepared for this.</span>
   <span id="f000198">At first when she had conceived the plan of taking the hot journey down to Baltimore staying the night with a friend and then coming out to see her brother,</span>
   <span id="f000199">she had felt rather consciously virtuous,</span>
   <span id="f000200">hoped he wouldn’t be priggish or resentful about her not having come before – but walking here with him under the trees seemed such a little thing,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and surprisingly a happy thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000203">Kieth,” she said quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000204">“you know I couldn’t have waited a day longer.</span>
   <span id="f000205">I saw you when I was five,</span>
   <span id="f000206">but of course I didn’t remember,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and how could I have gone on without practically ever having seen my only brother?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“It was mighty sweet of you,</span>
   <span id="f000209">Lois,” he repeated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">Lois blushed – he DID have personality.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“I want you to tell me all about yourself,” he said after a pause.</span>
   <span id="f000212">“Of course I have a general idea what you and mother did in Europe those fourteen years,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and then we were all so worried,</span>
   <span id="f000214">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000215">when you had pneumonia and couldn’t come down with mother – let’s see that was two years ago – and then,</span>
   <span id="f000216">well,</span>
   <span id="f000217">I’ve seen your name in the papers,</span>
   <span id="f000218">but it’s all been so unsatisfactory.</span>
   <span id="f000219">I haven’t known you,</span>
   <span id="f000220">Lois.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">She found herself analyzing his personality as she analyzed the personality of every man she met.</span>
   <span id="f000222">She wondered if the effect of – of intimacy that he gave was bred by his constant repetition of her name.</span>
   <span id="f000223">He said it as if he loved the word,</span>
   <span id="f000224">as if it had an inherent meaning to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“Then you were at school,” he continued.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000227">at Farmington.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Mother wanted me to go to a convent – but I didn’t want to.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">She cast a side glance at him to see if he would resent this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">But he only nodded slowly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">“Had enough convents abroad,</span>
   <span id="f000232">eh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">“Yes – and Kieth,</span>
   <span id="f000234">convents are different there anyway.</span>
   <span id="f000235">Here even in the nicest ones there are so many COMMON girls.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">He nodded again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“Yes,” he agreed,</span>
   <span id="f000238">“I suppose there are,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and I know how you feel about it.</span>
   <span id="f000240">It grated on me here,</span>
   <span id="f000241">at first,</span>
   <span id="f000242">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000243">though I wouldn’t say that to any one but you;</span>
   <span id="f000244">we’re rather sensitive,</span>
   <span id="f000245">you and I,</span>
   <span id="f000246">to things like this.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“You mean the men here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000249">some of them of course were fine,</span>
   <span id="f000250">the sort of men I’d always been thrown with,</span>
   <span id="f000251">but there were others;</span>
   <span id="f000252">a man named Regan,</span>
   <span id="f000253">for instance – I hated the fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and now he’s about the best friend I have.</span>
   <span id="f000255">A wonderful character,</span>
   <span id="f000256">Lois;</span>
   <span id="f000257">you’ll meet him later.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Sort of man you’d like to have with you in a fight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">Lois was thinking that Kieth was the sort of man she’d like to have with HER in a fight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“How did you – how did you first happen to do it?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000261">rather shyly,</span>
   <span id="f000262">“to come here,</span>
   <span id="f000263">I mean.</span>
   <span id="f000264">Of course mother told me the story about the Pullman car.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000266">that – ” He looked rather annoyed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“Tell me that.</span>
   <span id="f000268">I’d like to hear you tell it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000270">it’s nothing except what you probably know.</span>
   <span id="f000271">It was evening and I’d been riding all day and thinking about – about a hundred things,</span>
   <span id="f000272">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and then suddenly I had a sense that some one was sitting across from me,</span>
   <span id="f000274">felt that he’d been there for some time,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and had a vague idea that he was another traveller.</span>
   <span id="f000276">All at once he leaned over toward me and I heard a voice say:</span>
   <span id="f000277">’I want you to be a priest,</span>
   <span id="f000278">that’s what I want.’ Well I jumped up and cried out,</span>
   <span id="f000279">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000280">my God,</span>
   <span id="f000281">not that!’ – made an idiot of myself before about twenty people;</span>
   <span id="f000282">you see there wasn’t any one sitting there at all.</span>
   <span id="f000283">A week after that I went to the Jesuit College in Philadelphia and crawled up the last flight of stairs to the rector’s office on my hands and knees.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">There was another silence and Lois saw that her brother’s eyes wore a far-away look,</span>
   <span id="f000285">that he was staring unseeingly out over the sunny fields.</span>
   <span id="f000286">She was stirred by the modulations of his voice and the sudden silence that seemed to flow about him when he finished speaking.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">She noticed now that his eyes were of the same fibre as hers,</span>
   <span id="f000288">with the green left out,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and that his mouth was much gentler,</span>
   <span id="f000290">really,</span>
   <span id="f000291">than in the picture – or was it that the face had grown up to it lately?</span>
   <span id="f000292">He was getting a little bald just on top of his head.</span>
   <span id="f000293">She wondered if that was from wearing a hat so much.</span>
   <span id="f000294">It seemed awful for a man to grow bald and no one to care about it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“Were you – pious when you were young,</span>
   <span id="f000296">Kieth?” she asked.</span>
   <span id="f000297">“You know what I mean.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Were you religious?</span>
   <span id="f000299">If you don’t mind these personal questions.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“Yes,” he said with his eyes still far away – and she felt that his intense abstraction was as much a part of his personality as his attention.</span>
   <span id="f000301">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000302">I suppose I was,</span>
   <span id="f000303">when I was – sober.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">Lois thrilled slightly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“Did you drink?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">He nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">“I was on the way to making a bad hash of things.” He smiled and,</span>
   <span id="f000308">turning his gray eyes on her,</span>
   <span id="f000309">changed the subject.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">“Child,</span>
   <span id="f000311">tell me about mother.</span>
   <span id="f000312">I know it’s been awfully hard for you there,</span>
   <span id="f000313">lately.</span>
   <span id="f000314">I know you’ve had to sacrifice a lot and put up with a great deal and I want you to know how fine of you I think it is.</span>
   <span id="f000315">I feel,</span>
   <span id="f000316">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000317">that you’re sort of taking the place of both of us there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">Lois thought quickly how little she had sacrificed;</span>
   <span id="f000319">how lately she had constantly avoided her nervous,</span>
   <span id="f000320">half-invalid mother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“Youth shouldn’t be sacrificed to age,</span>
   <span id="f000322">Kieth,” she said steadily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“I know,” he sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000324">“and you oughtn’t to have the weight on your shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000325">child.</span>
   <span id="f000326">I wish I were there to help you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">She saw how quickly he had turned her remark and instantly she knew what this quality was that he gave off.</span>
   <span id="f000328">He was SWEET.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Her thoughts went of on a side-track and then she broke the silence with an odd remark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“Sweetness is hard,” she said suddenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“Nothing,” she denied in confusion.</span>
   <span id="f000333">“I didn’t mean to speak aloud.</span>
   <span id="f000334">I was thinking of something – of a conversation with a man named Freddy Kebble.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“Maury Kebble’s brother?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“Yes,” she said rather surprised to think of him having known Maury Kebble.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Still there was nothing strange about it.</span>
   <span id="f000338">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000339">he and I were talking about sweetness a few weeks ago.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000341">I don’t know – I said that a man named Howard – that a man I knew was sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and he didn’t agree with me,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and we began talking about what sweetness in a man was:</span>
   <span id="f000344">He kept telling me I meant a sort of soppy softness,</span>
   <span id="f000345">but I knew I didn’t – yet I didn’t know exactly how to put it.</span>
   <span id="f000346">I see now.</span>
   <span id="f000347">I meant just the opposite.</span>
   <span id="f000348">I suppose real sweetness is a sort of hardness – and strength.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">Kieth nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“I see what you mean.</span>
   <span id="f000351">I’ve known old priests who had it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">“I’m talking about young men,” she said rather defiantly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">They had reached the now deserted baseball diamond and,</span>
   <span id="f000354">pointing her to a wooden bench,</span>
   <span id="f000355">he sprawled full length on the grass.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“Are these YOUNG men happy here,</span>
   <span id="f000357">Kieth?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">“Don’t they look happy,</span>
   <span id="f000359">Lois?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">I suppose so,</span>
   <span id="f000361">but those YOUNG ones,</span>
   <span id="f000362">those two we just passed – have they – are they – ?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">“Are they signed up?” he laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000364">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000365">but they will be next month.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“Permanently?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">“Yes – unless they break down mentally or physically.</span>
   <span id="f000368">Of course in a discipline like ours a lot drop out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“But those BOYS.</span>
   <span id="f000370">Are they giving up fine chances outside – like you did?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">He nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">“Some of them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">“But Kieth,</span>
   <span id="f000374">they don’t know what they’re doing.</span>
   <span id="f000375">They haven’t had any experience of what they’re missing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000377">I suppose not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">“It doesn’t seem fair.</span>
   <span id="f000379">Life has just sort of scared them at first.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Do they all come in so YOUNG?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000382">some of them have knocked around,</span>
   <span id="f000383">led pretty wild lives – Regan,</span>
   <span id="f000384">for instance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">“I should think that sort would be better,” she said meditatively,</span>
   <span id="f000386">“men that had SEEN life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“No,” said Kieth earnestly,</span>
   <span id="f000388">“I’m not sure that knocking about gives a man the sort of experience he can communicate to others.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Some of the broadest men I’ve known have been absolutely rigid about themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000390">And reformed libertines are a notoriously intolerant class.</span>
   <span id="f000391">Don’t you thank so,</span>
   <span id="f000392">Lois?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">She nodded,</span>
   <span id="f000394">still meditative,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and he continued:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“It seems to me that when one weak reason goes to another,</span>
   <span id="f000397">it isn’t help they want;</span>
   <span id="f000398">it’s a sort of companionship in guilt,</span>
   <span id="f000399">Lois.</span>
   <span id="f000400">After you were born,</span>
   <span id="f000401">when mother began to get nervous she used to go and weep with a certain Mrs.&#160;Comstock.</span>
   <span id="f000402">Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000403">it used to make me shiver.</span>
   <span id="f000404">She said it comforted her,</span>
   <span id="f000405">poor old mother.</span>
   <span id="f000406">No,</span>
   <span id="f000407">I don’t think that to help others you’ve got to show yourself at all.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Real help comes from a stronger person whom you respect.</span>
   <span id="f000409">And their sympathy is all the bigger because it’s impersonal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“But people want human sympathy,” objected Lois.</span>
   <span id="f000411">“They want to feel the other person’s been tempted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000413">in their hearts they want to feel that the other person’s been weak.</span>
   <span id="f000414">That’s what they mean by human.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“Here in this old monkery,</span>
   <span id="f000416">Lois,” he continued with a smile,</span>
   <span id="f000417">“they try to get all that self-pity and pride in our own wills out of us right at the first.</span>
   <span id="f000418">They put us to scrubbing floors – and other things.</span>
   <span id="f000419">It’s like that idea of saving your life by losing it.</span>
   <span id="f000420">You see we sort of feel that the less human a man is,</span>
   <span id="f000421">in your sense of human,</span>
   <span id="f000422">the better servant he can be to humanity.</span>
   <span id="f000423">We carry it out to the end,</span>
   <span id="f000424">too.</span>
   <span id="f000425">When one of us dies his family can’t even have him then.</span>
   <span id="f000426">He’s buried here under plain wooden cross with a thousand others.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">His tone changed suddenly and he looked at her with a great brightness in his gray eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">“But way back in a man’s heart there are some things he can’t get rid of – an one of them is that I’m awfully in love with my little sister.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">With a sudden impulse she knelt beside him in the grass and,</span>
   <span id="f000430">Leaning over,</span>
   <span id="f000431">kissed his forehead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">“You’re hard,</span>
   <span id="f000433">Kieth,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000434">“and I love you for it – and you’re sweet.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000435">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000436">Back in the reception-room Lois met a half-dozen more of Kieth’s particular friends;</span>
   <span id="f000437">there was a young man named Jarvis,</span>
   <span id="f000438">rather pale and delicate-looking,</span>
   <span id="f000439">who,</span>
   <span id="f000440">she knew,</span>
   <span id="f000441">must be a grandson of old Mrs.&#160;Jarvis at home,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and she mentally compared this ascetic with a brace of his riotous uncles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">And there was Regan with a scarred face and piercing intent eyes that followed her about the room and often rested on Kieth with something very like worship.</span>
   <span id="f000444">She knew then what Kieth had meant about “a good man to have with you in a fight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">He’s the missionary type – she thought vaguely – China or something.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">“I want Kieth’s sister to show us what the shimmy is,” demanded one young man with a broad grin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">Lois laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">“I’m afraid the Father Rector would send me shimmying out the gate.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000450">I’m not an expert.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“I’m sure it wouldn’t be best for Jimmy’s soul anyway,” said Kieth solemnly.</span>
   <span id="f000452">“He’s inclined to brood about things like shimmys.</span>
   <span id="f000453">They were just starting to do the – maxixe,</span>
   <span id="f000454">wasn’t it,</span>
   <span id="f000455">Jimmy?</span>
   <span id="f000456">– when he became a monk,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and it haunted him his whole first year.</span>
   <span id="f000458">You’d see him when he was peeling potatoes,</span>
   <span id="f000459">putting his arm around the bucket and making irreligious motions with his feet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">There was a general laugh in which Lois joined.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“An old lady who comes here to Mass sent Kieth this ice-cream,” whispered Jarvis under cover of the laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000462">“because she’d heard you were coming.</span>
   <span id="f000463">It’s pretty good,</span>
   <span id="f000464">isn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">There were tears trembling in Lois’ eyes.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000466">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000467">Then half an hour later over in the chapel things suddenly went all wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000468">It was several years since Lois had been at Benediction and at first she was thrilled by the gleaming monstrance with its central spot of white,</span>
   <span id="f000469">the air rich and heavy with incense,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and the sun shining through the stained-glass window of St.&#160;Francis Xavier overhead and falling in warm red tracery on the cassock of the man in front of her,</span>
   <span id="f000471">but at the first notes of the “O SALUTARIS HOSTIA” a heavy weight seemed to descend upon her soul.</span>
   <span id="f000472">Kieth was on her right and young Jarvis on her left,</span>
   <span id="f000473">and she stole uneasy glance at both of them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">What’s the matter with me?</span>
   <span id="f000475">she thought impatiently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">She looked again.</span>
   <span id="f000477">Was there a certain coldness in both their profiles,</span>
   <span id="f000478">that she had not noticed before – a pallor about the mouth and a curious set expression in their eyes?</span>
   <span id="f000479">She shivered slightly:</span>
   <span id="f000480">they were like dead men.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">She felt her soul recede suddenly from Kieth’s.</span>
   <span id="f000482">This was her brother – this,</span>
   <span id="f000483">this unnatural person.</span>
   <span id="f000484">She caught herself in the act of a little laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">“What is the matter with me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000486">She passed her hand over her eyes and the weight increased.</span>
   <span id="f000487">The incense sickened her and a stray,</span>
   <span id="f000488">ragged note from one of the tenors in the choir grated on her ear like the shriek of a slate-pencil.</span>
   <span id="f000489">She fidgeted,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and raising her hand to her hair touched her forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000491">found moisture on it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">“It’s hot in here,</span>
   <span id="f000493">hot as the deuce.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000494">Again she repressed a faint laugh and,</span>
   <span id="f000495">then in an instant the weight on her heart suddenly diffused into cold fear…</span>
   <span id="f000496">.</span>
   <span id="f000497">It was that candle on the altar.</span>
   <span id="f000498">It was all wrong – wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000499">Why didn’t somebody see it?</span>
   <span id="f000500">There was something IN it.</span>
   <span id="f000501">There was something coming out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000502">taking form and shape above it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">She tried to fight down her rising panic,</span>
   <span id="f000504">told herself it was the wick.</span>
   <span id="f000505">If the wick wasn’t straight,</span>
   <span id="f000506">candles did something – but they didn’t do this!</span>
   <span id="f000507">With incalculable rapidity a force was gathering within her,</span>
   <span id="f000508">a tremendous,</span>
   <span id="f000509">assimilative force,</span>
   <span id="f000510">drawing from every sense,</span>
   <span id="f000511">every corner of her brain,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and as it surged up inside her she felt an enormous terrified repulsion.</span>
   <span id="f000513">She drew her arms in close to her side away from Kieth and Jarvis.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">Something in that candle…</span>
   <span id="f000515">she was leaning forward – in another moment she felt she would go forward toward it – didn’t any one see it?…</span>
   <span id="f000516">anyone?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">“Ugh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">She felt a space beside her and something told her that Jarvis had gasped and sat down very suddenly…</span>
   <span id="f000519">then she was kneeling and as the flaming monstrance slowly left the altar in the hands of the priest,</span>
   <span id="f000520">she heard a great rushing noise in her ears – the crash of the bells was like hammer-blows…</span>
   <span id="f000521">and then in a moment that seemed eternal a great torrent rolled over her heart – there was a shouting there and a lashing as of waves…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">She was calling,</span>
   <span id="f000523">felt herself calling for Kieth,</span>
   <span id="f000524">her lips mouthing the words that would not come:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000525">“Kieth!</span>
   <span id="f000526">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000527">my God!</span>
   <span id="f000528">KIETH!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">Suddenly she became aware of a new presence,</span>
   <span id="f000530">something external,</span>
   <span id="f000531">in front of her,</span>
   <span id="f000532">consummated and expressed in warm red tracery.</span>
   <span id="f000533">Then she knew.</span>
   <span id="f000534">It was the window of St.&#160;Francis Xavier.</span>
   <span id="f000535">Her mind gripped at it,</span>
   <span id="f000536">clung to it finally,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and she felt herself calling again endlessly,</span>
   <span id="f000538">impotently – Kieth – Kieth!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">Then out of a great stillness came a voice:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“BLESSED BE GOD.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">With a gradual rumble sounded the response rolling heavily through the chapel:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“Blessed be God.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">The words sang instantly in her heart;</span>
   <span id="f000544">the incense lay mystically and sweetly peaceful upon the air,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and THE CANDLE ON THE ALTAR WENT OUT.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“Blessed be His Holy Name.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">“Blessed be His Holy Name.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">Everything blurred into a swinging mist.</span>
   <span id="f000549">With a sound half-gasp,</span>
   <span id="f000550">half-cry she rocked on her feet and reeled backward into Kieth’s suddenly outstretched arms.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000551">V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000552">“Lie still,</span>
   <span id="f000553">child.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">She closed her eyes again.</span>
   <span id="f000555">She was on the grass outside,</span>
   <span id="f000556">pillowed on Kieth’s arm,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and Regan was dabbing her head with a cold towel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">“I’m all right,” she said quietly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">“I know,</span>
   <span id="f000560">but just lie still a minute longer.</span>
   <span id="f000561">It was too hot in there.</span>
   <span id="f000562">Jarvis felt it,</span>
   <span id="f000563">too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000564">She laughed as Regan again touched her gingerly with the towel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">“I’m all right,” she repeated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">But though a warm peace was falling her mind and heart she felt oddly broken and chastened,</span>
   <span id="f000567">as if some one had held her stripped soul up and laughed.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000568">VI</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000569">Half an hour later she walked leaning on Kieth’s arm down the long central path toward the gate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">“It’s been such a short afternoon,” he sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000571">“and I’m so sorry you were sick,</span>
   <span id="f000572">Lois.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000573">“Kieth,</span>
   <span id="f000574">I’m feeling fine now,</span>
   <span id="f000575">really;</span>
   <span id="f000576">I wish you wouldn’t worry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">“Poor old child.</span>
   <span id="f000578">I didn’t realize that Benediction’d be a long service for you after your hot trip out here and all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">She laughed cheerfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“I guess the truth is I’m not much used to Benediction.</span>
   <span id="f000581">Mass is the limit of my religious exertions.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">She paused and then continued quickly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“I don’t want to shock you,</span>
   <span id="f000584">Kieth,</span>
   <span id="f000585">but I can’t tell you how – how INCONVENIENT being a Catholic is.</span>
   <span id="f000586">It really doesn’t seem to apply any more.</span>
   <span id="f000587">As far as morals go,</span>
   <span id="f000588">some of the wildest boys I know are Catholics.</span>
   <span id="f000589">And the brightest boys – I mean the ones who think and read a lot,</span>
   <span id="f000590">don’t seem to believe in much of anything any more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">“Tell me about it.</span>
   <span id="f000592">The bus won’t be here for another half-hour.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">They sat down on a bench by the path.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">“For instance,</span>
   <span id="f000595">Gerald Carter,</span>
   <span id="f000596">he’s published a novel.</span>
   <span id="f000597">He absolutely roars when people mention immortality.</span>
   <span id="f000598">And then Howa – well,</span>
   <span id="f000599">another man I’ve known well,</span>
   <span id="f000600">lately,</span>
   <span id="f000601">who was Phi Beta Kappa at Harvard says that no intelligent person can believe in Supernatural Christianity.</span>
   <span id="f000602">He says Christ was a great socialist,</span>
   <span id="f000603">though.</span>
   <span id="f000604">Am I shocking you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">She broke off suddenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">Kieth smiled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000607">“You can’t shock a monk.</span>
   <span id="f000608">He’s a professional shock-absorber.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">“Well,” she continued,</span>
   <span id="f000610">“that’s about all.</span>
   <span id="f000611">It seems so – so NARROW.</span>
   <span id="f000612">Church schools,</span>
   <span id="f000613">for instance.</span>
   <span id="f000614">There’s more freedom about things that Catholic people can’t see – like birth control.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000615">Kieth winced,</span>
   <span id="f000616">almost imperceptibly,</span>
   <span id="f000617">but Lois saw it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“Oh,” she said quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000619">“everybody talks about everything now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">“It’s probably better that way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000622">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000623">much better.</span>
   <span id="f000624">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000625">that’s all,</span>
   <span id="f000626">Kieth.</span>
   <span id="f000627">I just wanted to tell you why I’m a little – luke-warm,</span>
   <span id="f000628">at present.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">“I’m not shocked,</span>
   <span id="f000630">Lois.</span>
   <span id="f000631">I understand better than you think.</span>
   <span id="f000632">We all go through those times.</span>
   <span id="f000633">But I know it’ll come out all right,</span>
   <span id="f000634">child.</span>
   <span id="f000635">There’s that gift of faith that we have,</span>
   <span id="f000636">you and I,</span>
   <span id="f000637">that’ll carry us past the bad spots.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">He rose as he spoke and they started again down the path.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">“I want you to pray for me sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000640">Lois.</span>
   <span id="f000641">I think your prayers would be about what I need.</span>
   <span id="f000642">Because we’ve come very close in these few hours,</span>
   <span id="f000643">I think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">Her eyes were suddenly shining.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">“Oh we have,</span>
   <span id="f000646">we have!” she cried.</span>
   <span id="f000647">“I feel closer to you now than to any one in the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">He stopped suddenly and indicated the side of the path.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“We might – just a minute – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">It was a pietà,</span>
   <span id="f000651">a life-size statue of the Blessed Virgin set within a semicircle of rocks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">Feeling a little self-conscious she dropped on her knees beside him and made an unsuccessful attempt at prayer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">She was only half through when he rose.</span>
   <span id="f000654">He took her arm again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">“I wanted to thank Her for letting as have this day together,” he said simply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">Lois felt a sudden lump in her throat and she wanted to say something that would tell him how much it had meant to her,</span>
   <span id="f000657">too.</span>
   <span id="f000658">But she found no words.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">“I’ll always remember this,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000660">his voice trembling a little – “this summer day with you.</span>
   <span id="f000661">It’s been just what I expected.</span>
   <span id="f000662">You’re just what I expected,</span>
   <span id="f000663">Lois.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">“I’m awfully glad,</span>
   <span id="f000665">Keith.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000667">when you were little they kept sending me snap-shots of you,</span>
   <span id="f000668">first as a baby and then as a child in socks playing on the beach with a pail and shovel,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and then suddenly as a wistful little girl with wondering,</span>
   <span id="f000670">pure eyes – and I used to build dreams about you.</span>
   <span id="f000671">A man has to have something living to cling to.</span>
   <span id="f000672">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000673">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000674">it was your little white soul I tried to keep near me – even when life was at its loudest and every intellectual idea of God seemed the sheerest mockery,</span>
   <span id="f000675">and desire and love and a million things came up to me and said:</span>
   <span id="f000676">’Look here at me!</span>
   <span id="f000677">See,</span>
   <span id="f000678">I’m Life.</span>
   <span id="f000679">You’re turning your back on it!’ All the way through that shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000680">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000681">I could always see your baby soul flitting on ahead of me,</span>
   <span id="f000682">very frail and clear and wonderful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">Lois was crying softly.</span>
   <span id="f000684">They had reached the gate and she rested her elbow on it and dabbed furiously at her eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">“And then later,</span>
   <span id="f000686">child,</span>
   <span id="f000687">when you were sick I knelt all one night and asked God to spare you for me – for I knew then that I wanted more;</span>
   <span id="f000688">He had taught me to want more.</span>
   <span id="f000689">I wanted to know you moved and breathed in the same world with me.</span>
   <span id="f000690">I saw you growing up,</span>
   <span id="f000691">that white innocence of yours changing to a flame and burning to give light to other weaker souls.</span>
   <span id="f000692">And then I wanted some day to take your children on my knee and hear them call the crabbed old monk Uncle Kieth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000693">He seemed to be laughing now as he talked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000695">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000696">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000697">I was asking God for more then.</span>
   <span id="f000698">I wanted the letters you’d write me and the place I’d have at your table.</span>
   <span id="f000699">I wanted an awful lot,</span>
   <span id="f000700">Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000701">dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">“You’ve got me,</span>
   <span id="f000703">Kieth,” she sobbed “you know it,</span>
   <span id="f000704">say you know it.</span>
   <span id="f000705">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000706">I’m acting like a baby but I didn’t think you’d be this way,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and I – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000708">Kieth – Kieth – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000709">He took her hand and patted it softly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">“Here’s the bus.</span>
   <span id="f000711">You’ll come again won’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">She put her hands on his cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000713">add drawing his head down,</span>
   <span id="f000714">pressed her tear-wet face against his.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000716">Kieth,</span>
   <span id="f000717">brother,</span>
   <span id="f000718">some day I’ll tell you something.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000719">He helped her in,</span>
   <span id="f000720">saw her take down her handkerchief and smile bravely at him,</span>
   <span id="f000721">as the driver kicked his whip and the bus rolled off.</span>
   <span id="f000722">Then a thick cloud of dust rose around it and she was gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">For a few minutes he stood there on the road his hand on the gate-post,</span>
   <span id="f000724">his lips half parted in a smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“Lois,” he said aloud in a sort of wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000726">“Lois,</span>
   <span id="f000727">Lois.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">Later,</span>
   <span id="f000729">some probationers passing noticed him kneeling before the pietà,</span>
   <span id="f000730">and coming back after a time found him still there.</span>
   <span id="f000731">And he was there until twilight came down and the courteous trees grew garrulous overhead and the crickets took up their burden of song in the dusky grass.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000732">VII</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000733">The first clerk in the telegraph booth in the Baltimore Station whistled through his buck teeth at the second clerk:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000734">“S’matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">“See that girl – no,</span>
   <span id="f000736">the pretty one with the big black dots on her veil.</span>
   <span id="f000737">Too late – she’s gone.</span>
   <span id="f000738">You missed somep’n.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">“What about her?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“Nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000741">’Cept she’s damn good-looking.</span>
   <span id="f000742">Came in here yesterday and sent a wire to some guy to meet her somewhere.</span>
   <span id="f000743">Then a minute ago she came in with a telegram all written out and was standin’ there goin’ to give it to me when she changed her mind or somep’n and all of a sudden tore it up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000744">“Hm.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">The first clerk came around tile counter and picking up the two pieces of paper from the floor put them together idly.</span>
   <span id="f000746">The second clerk read them over his shoulder and subconsciously counted the words as he read.</span>
   <span id="f000747">There were just thirteen.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000748">This is in the way of a permanent goodbye.</span>
   <span id="f000749">I should suggest Italy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“Lois.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000751">“Tore it up,</span>
   <span id="f000752">eh?” said the second clerk.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

