<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 1</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">As long ago as 1860 it was the proper thing to be born at home.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">At present,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">so I am told,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">the high gods of medicine have decreed that the first cries of the young shall be uttered upon the anaesthetic air of a hospital,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">preferably a fashionable one.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">So young Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Roger Button were fifty years ahead of style when they decided,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">one day in the summer of 1860,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">that their first baby should be born in a hospital.</span> 
    <span id="f000010">Whether this anachronism had any bearing upon the astonishing history I am about to set down will never be known.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000011">I shall tell you what occurred,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and let you judge for yourself.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">The Roger Buttons held an enviable position,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">both social and financial,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">in ante–bellum Baltimore.</span> 
    <span id="f000016">They were related to the This Family and the That Family,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">which,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">as every Southerner knew,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">entitled them to membership in that enormous peerage which largely populated the Confederacy.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">This was their first experience with the charming old custom of having babies —</span> 
    <span id="f000021">Mr.&#160;Button was naturally nervous.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">He hoped it would be a boy so that he could be sent to Yale College in Connecticut,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">at which institution Mr.&#160;Button himself had been known for four years by the somewhat obvious nickname of «Cuff.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">On the September morning consecrated to the enormous event he arose nervously at six o’clock dressed himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">adjusted an impeccable stock,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">and hurried forth through the streets of Baltimore to the hospital,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">to determine whether the darkness of the night had borne in new life upon its bosom.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000028">When he was approximately a hundred yards from the Maryland Private Hospital for Ladies and Gentlemen he saw Doctor Keene,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">the family physician,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">descending the front steps,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">rubbing his hands together with a washing movement —</span> 
    <span id="f000032">as all doctors are required to do by the unwritten ethics of their profession.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000033">Mr.&#160;Roger Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">the president of Roger Button&#160;&amp;&#160;Co.,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">Wholesale Hardware,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">began to run toward Doctor Keene with much less dignity than was expected from a Southern gentleman of that picturesque period.</span> 
    <span id="f000037">«Doctor Keene!» he called.</span> 
    <span id="f000038">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">Doctor Keene!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000040">The doctor heard him,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">faced around,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and stood waiting,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">a curious expression settling on his harsh,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">medicinal face as Mr.&#160;Button drew near.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000045">«What happened?» demanded Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">as he came up in a gasping rush.</span> 
    <span id="f000047">«What was it?</span> 
    <span id="f000048">How is she?</span> 
    <span id="f000049">A boy?</span> 
    <span id="f000050">Who is it?</span> 
    <span id="f000051">What—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000052">«Talk sense!» said Doctor Keene sharply,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">He appeared somewhat irritated.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000054">«Is the child born?» begged Mr.&#160;Button.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000055">Doctor Keene frowned.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">I suppose so —</span> 
    <span id="f000059">after a fashion.» Again he threw a curious glance at Mr.&#160;Button.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000060">«Is my wife all right?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000061">«Yes.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000062">«Is it a boy or a girl?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000063">«Here now!» cried Doctor Keene in a perfect passion of irritation,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">«I’ll ask you to go and see for yourself.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">Outrageous!» He snapped the last word out in almost one syllable,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">then he turned away muttering:</span> 
    <span id="f000067">«Do you imagine a case like this will help my professional reputation?</span> 
    <span id="f000068">One more would ruin me —</span> 
    <span id="f000069">ruin anybody.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">«What’s the matter?» demanded Mr.&#160;Button appalled.</span> 
    <span id="f000071">«Triplets?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000072">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">not triplets!» answered the doctor cuttingly.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">«What’s more,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">you can go and see for yourself.</span> 
    <span id="f000076">And get another doctor.</span> 
    <span id="f000077">I brought you into the world,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">young man,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">and I’ve been physician to your family for forty years,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">but I’m through with you!</span> 
    <span id="f000081">I don’t want to see you or any of your relatives ever again!</span> 
    <span id="f000082">Good–bye!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000083">Then he turned sharply,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">and without another word climbed into his phaeton,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">which was waiting at the curbstone,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and drove severely away.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000087">Mr.&#160;Button stood there upon the sidewalk,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">stupefied and trembling from head to foot.</span> 
    <span id="f000089">What horrible mishap had occurred?</span> 
    <span id="f000090">He had suddenly lost all desire to go into the Maryland Private Hospital for Ladies and Gentlemen —</span> 
    <span id="f000091">it was with the greatest difficulty that,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">a moment later,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">he forced himself to mount the steps and enter the front door.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000094">A nurse was sitting behind a desk in the opaque gloom of the hall.</span> 
    <span id="f000095">Swallowing his shame,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">Mr.&#160;Button approached her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">«Good–morning,» she remarked,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">looking up at him pleasantly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000099">«Good–morning.</span> 
    <span id="f000100">I —</span> 
    <span id="f000101">I am Mr.&#160;Button.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">At this a look of utter terror spread itself over girl’s face.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">She rose to her feet and seemed about to fly from the hall,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">restraining herself only with the most apparent difficulty.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000105">«I want to see my child,» said Mr.&#160;Button.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000106">The nurse gave a little scream.</span> 
    <span id="f000107">«Oh —</span> 
    <span id="f000108">of course!» she cried hysterically.</span> 
    <span id="f000109">«Upstairs.</span> 
    <span id="f000110">Right upstairs.</span> 
    <span id="f000111">Go–<em>up!</em>»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000112">She pointed the direction,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">bathed in cool perspiration,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">turned falteringly,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">and began to mount to the second floor.</span> 
    <span id="f000117">In the upper hall he addressed another nurse who approached him,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">basin in hand.</span> 
    <span id="f000119">«I’m Mr.&#160;Button,» he managed to articulate.</span> 
    <span id="f000120">«I want to see my—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">Clank!</span> 
    <span id="f000122">The basin clattered to the floor and rolled in the direction of the stairs.</span> 
    <span id="f000123">Clank!</span> 
    <span id="f000124">Clank!</span> 
    <span id="f000125">It began a methodical descent as if sharing in the general terror which this gentleman provoked.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000126">«I want to see my child!» Mr.&#160;Button almost shrieked.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">He was on the verge of collapse.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000128">Clank!</span> 
    <span id="f000129">The basin reached the first floor.</span> 
    <span id="f000130">The nurse regained control of herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">and threw Mr.&#160;Button a look of hearty contempt.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000132">«All <em>right</em>,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">Mr.&#160;Button,» she agreed in a hushed voice.</span> 
    <span id="f000134">«Very <em>well!</em> But if you <em>knew</em> what a state it’s put us all in this morning!</span> 
    <span id="f000135">It’s perfectly outrageous!</span> 
    <span id="f000136">The hospital will never have a ghost of a reputation after—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000137">«Hurry!» he cried hoarsely.</span> 
    <span id="f000138">«I can’t stand this!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">«Come this way,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">then,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">Mr.&#160;Button.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000142">He dragged himself after her.</span> 
    <span id="f000143">At the end of a long hall they reached a room from which proceeded a variety of howls —</span> 
    <span id="f000144">indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000145">a room which,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">in later parlance,</span> 
    <span id="f000147">would have been known as the «crying–room.» They entered.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000148">«Well,» gasped Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">«which is mine?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000150">«There!» said the nurse.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000151">Mr.&#160;Button’s eyes followed her pointing finger,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">and this is what he saw.</span> 
    <span id="f000153">Wrapped in a voluminous white blanket,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">and partly crammed into one of the cribs,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">there sat an old man apparently about seventy years of age.</span> 
    <span id="f000156">His sparse hair was almost white,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">and from his chin dripped a long smoke–coloured beard,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">which waved absurdly back and forth,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">fanned by the breeze coming in at the window.</span> 
    <span id="f000160">He looked up at Mr.&#160;Button with dim,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">faded eyes in which lurked a puzzled question.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000162">«Am I mad?» thundered Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">his terror resolving into rage.</span> 
    <span id="f000164">"Is this some ghastly hospital joke?</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000165">«It doesn’t seem like a joke to us,» replied the nurse severely.</span> 
    <span id="f000166">«And I don’t know whether you’re mad or not —</span> 
    <span id="f000167">but that is most certainly your child.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000168">The cool perspiration redoubled on Mr.&#160;Button’s forehead.</span> 
    <span id="f000169">He closed his eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">and then,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">opening them,</span> 
    <span id="f000172">looked again.</span> 
    <span id="f000173">There was no mistake —</span> 
    <span id="f000174">he was gazing at a man of threescore and ten —</span> 
    <span id="f000175">a <em>baby</em> of threescore and ten,</span> 
    <span id="f000176">a baby whose feet hung over the sides of the crib in which it was reposing.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000177">The old man looked placidly from one to the other for a moment,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">and then suddenly spoke in a cracked and ancient voice.</span> 
    <span id="f000179">«Are you my father?» he demanded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000180">Mr.&#160;Button and the nurse started violently.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000181">«Because if you are,» went on the old man querulously,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">«I wish you’d get me out of this place —</span> 
    <span id="f000183">or,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">at least,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">get them to put a comfortable rocker in here.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000186">«Where in God’s name did you come from?</span> 
    <span id="f000187">Who are you?» burst out Mr.&#160;Button frantically.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000188">«I can’t tell you <em>exactly</em> who I am,» replied the querulous whine,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">«because I’ve only been born a few hours —</span> 
    <span id="f000190">but my last name is certainly Button.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000191">«You lie!</span> 
    <span id="f000192">You’re an impostor!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000193">The old man turned wearily to the nurse.</span> 
    <span id="f000194">«Nice way to welcome a new–born child,» he complained in a weak voice.</span> 
    <span id="f000195">«Tell him he’s wrong,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">why don’t you?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000197">«You’re wrong.</span> 
    <span id="f000198">Mr.&#160;Button,» said the nurse severely.</span> 
    <span id="f000199">«This is your child,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">and you’ll have to make the best of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000201">We’re going to ask you to take him home with you as soon as possible–some time to–day.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000202">«Home?» repeated Mr.&#160;Button incredulously.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000203">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">we can’t have him here.</span> 
    <span id="f000205">We really can’t,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">you know?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000207">«I’m right glad of it,» whined the old man.</span> 
    <span id="f000208">«This is a fine place to keep a youngster of quiet tastes.</span> 
    <span id="f000209">With all this yelling and howling,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">I haven’t been able to get a wink of sleep.</span> 
    <span id="f000211">I asked for something to eat» —</span> 
    <span id="f000212">here his voice rose to a shrill note of protest —</span> 
    <span id="f000213">«and they brought me a bottle of milk!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000214">Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">sank down upon a chair near his son and concealed his face in his hands.</span> 
    <span id="f000216">«My heavens!» he murmured,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">in an ecstasy of horror.</span> 
    <span id="f000218">«What will people say?</span> 
    <span id="f000219">What must I do?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000220">«You’ll have to take him home,» insisted the nurse —</span> 
    <span id="f000221">«immediately!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000222">A grotesque picture formed itself with dreadful clarity before the eyes of the tortured man —</span> 
    <span id="f000223">a picture of himself walking through the crowded streets of the city with this appalling apparition stalking by his side.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000224">«I can’t.</span> 
    <span id="f000225">I can’t,» he moaned.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000226">People would stop to speak to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">and what was he going to say?</span> 
    <span id="f000228">He would have to introduce this —</span> 
    <span id="f000229">this septuagenarian:</span> 
    <span id="f000230">«This is my son,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">born early this morning.» And then the old man would gather his blanket around him and they would plod on,</span> 
    <span id="f000232">past the bustling stores,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">the slave market —</span> 
    <span id="f000234">for a dark instant Mr.&#160;Button wished passionately that his son was black —</span> 
    <span id="f000235">past the luxurious houses of the residential district,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">past the home for the aged…</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000237">«Come!</span> 
    <span id="f000238">Pull yourself together,» commanded the nurse.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000239">«See here,» the old man announced suddenly,</span> 
    <span id="f000240">«if you think I’m going to walk home in this blanket,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">you’re entirely mistaken.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000242">«Babies always have blankets.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000243">With a malicious crackle the old man held up a small white swaddling garment.</span> 
    <span id="f000244">«Look!» he quavered.</span> 
    <span id="f000245">«<em>This</em> is what they had ready for me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000246">«Babies always wear those,» said the nurse primly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000247">«Well,» said the old man,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">«this baby’s not going to wear anything in about two minutes.</span> 
    <span id="f000249">This blanket itches.</span> 
    <span id="f000250">They might at least have given me a sheet.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000251">«Keep it on!</span> 
    <span id="f000252">Keep it on!» said Mr.&#160;Button hurriedly.</span> 
    <span id="f000253">He turned to the nurse.</span> 
    <span id="f000254">«What’ll I do?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000255">«Go down town and buy your son some clothes.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000256">Mr.&#160;Button’s son’s voice followed him down into the hall:</span> 
    <span id="f000257">«And a cane,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">father.</span> 
    <span id="f000259">I want to have a cane.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000260">Mr.&#160;Button banged the outer door savagely…</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>