<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 2</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">«Good–morning,» Mr.&#160;Button said nervously,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">to the clerk in the Chesapeake Dry Goods Company.</span> 
    <span id="f000004">«I want to buy some clothes for my child.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000005">«How old is your child,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">sir?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000007">«About six hours,» answered Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">without due consideration.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000009">«Babies’ supply department in the rear.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">I don’t think —</span> 
    <span id="f000012">I’m not sure that’s what I want.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">It’s —</span> 
    <span id="f000014">he’s an unusually large–size child.</span> 
    <span id="f000015">Exceptionally —</span> 
    <span id="f000016">ah large.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000017">«They have the largest child’s sizes.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000018">«Where is the boys’ department?» inquired Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">shifting his ground desperately.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">He felt that the clerk must surely scent his shameful secret.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000021">«Right here.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000022">«Well—» He hesitated.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">The notion of dressing his son in men’s clothes was repugnant to him.</span> 
    <span id="f000024">If,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">say,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">he could only find a very large boy’s suit,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">he might cut off that long and awful beard,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">dye the white hair brown,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">and thus manage to conceal the worst,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">and to retain something of his own self–respect —</span> 
    <span id="f000031">not to mention his position in Baltimore society.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">But a frantic inspection of the boys’ department revealed no suits to fit the new–born Button.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">He blamed the store,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">of course —</span> 
    <span id="f000035">in such cases it is the thing to blame the store.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000036">«How old did you say that boy of yours was?» demanded the clerk curiously.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000037">«He’s —</span> 
    <span id="f000038">sixteen.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000039">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">I beg your pardon.</span> 
    <span id="f000041">I thought you said six <em>hours</em>.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">You’ll find the youths’ department in the next aisle.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">Mr.&#160;Button turned miserably away.</span> 
    <span id="f000044">Then he stopped,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">brightened,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">and pointed his finger toward a dressed dummy in the window display.</span> 
    <span id="f000047">«There!» he exclaimed.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">«I’ll take that suit,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">out there on the dummy.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000050">The clerk stared.</span> 
    <span id="f000051">«Why,» he protested,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">«that’s not a child’s suit.</span> 
    <span id="f000053">At least it <em>is</em>,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">but it’s for fancy dress.</span> 
    <span id="f000055">You could wear it yourself!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000056">«Wrap it up,» insisted his customer nervously.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">«That’s what I want.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000058">The astonished clerk obeyed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">Back at the hospital Mr.&#160;Button entered the nursery and almost threw the package at his son.</span> 
    <span id="f000060">«Here’s your clothes,» he snapped out.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000061">The old man untied the package and viewed the contents with a quizzical eye.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000062">«They look sort of funny to me,» he complained,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">«I don’t want to be made a monkey of—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000064">«You’ve made a monkey of me!» retorted Mr.&#160;Button fiercely.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">«Never you mind how funny you look.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">Put them on —</span> 
    <span id="f000067">or I’ll —</span> 
    <span id="f000068">or I’ll <em>spank</em> you.» He swallowed uneasily at the penultimate word,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">feeling nevertheless that it was the proper thing to say.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">«All right,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">father» —</span> 
    <span id="f000072">this with a grotesque simulation of filial respect —</span> 
    <span id="f000073">«you’ve lived longer;</span> 
    <span id="f000074">you know best.</span> 
    <span id="f000075">Just as you say.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000076">As before,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">the sound of the word «father» caused Mr.&#160;Button to start violently.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000078">«And hurry.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000079">«I’m hurrying,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">father.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000081">When his son was dressed Mr.&#160;Button regarded him with depression.</span> 
    <span id="f000082">The costume consisted of dotted socks,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">pink pants,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">and a belted blouse with a wide white collar.</span> 
    <span id="f000085">Over the latter waved the long whitish beard,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">drooping almost to the waist.</span> 
    <span id="f000087">The effect was not good.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">«Wait!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000089">Mr.&#160;Button seized a hospital shears and with three quick snaps amputated a large section of the beard.</span> 
    <span id="f000090">But even with this improvement the ensemble fell far short of perfection.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">The remaining brush of scraggly hair,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">the watery eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">the ancient teeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">seemed oddly out of tone with the gaiety of the costume.</span> 
    <span id="f000095">Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">however,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">was obdurate —</span> 
    <span id="f000098">he held out his hand.</span> 
    <span id="f000099">«Come along!» he said sternly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000100">His son took the hand trustingly.</span> 
    <span id="f000101">«What are you going to call me,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">dad?» he quavered as they walked from the nursery —</span> 
    <span id="f000103">«just ’baby’ for a while?</span> 
    <span id="f000104">till you think of a better name?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000105">Mr.&#160;Button grunted.</span> 
    <span id="f000106">«I don’t know,» he answered harshly.</span> 
    <span id="f000107">«I think we’ll call you Methuselah.»</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>