<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 3</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Even after the new addition to the Button family had had his hair cut short and then dyed to a sparse unnatural black,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">had had his face shaved so close that it glistened,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">and had been attired in small–boy clothes made to order by a flabbergasted tailor,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">it was impossible for Button to ignore the fact that his son was a poor excuse for a first family baby.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">Despite his aged stoop,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">Benjamin Button —</span> 
    <span id="f000008">for it was by this name they called him instead of by the appropriate but invidious Methuselah —</span> 
    <span id="f000009">was five feet eight inches tall.</span> 
    <span id="f000010">His clothes did not conceal this,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">nor did the clipping and dyeing of his eyebrows disguise the fact that the eyes under —</span> 
    <span id="f000012">were faded and watery and tired.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">In fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">the baby–nurse who had been engaged in advance left the house after one look,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">in a state of considerable indignation.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">But Mr.&#160;Button persisted in his unwavering purpose.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Benjamin was a baby,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">and a baby he should remain.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">At first he declared that if Benjamin didn’t like warm milk he could go without food altogether,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">but he was finally prevailed upon to allow his son bread and butter,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">and even oatmeal by way of a compromise.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">One day he brought home a rattle and,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">giving it to Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">insisted in no uncertain terms that he should «play with it,» whereupon the old man took it with —</span> 
    <span id="f000025">a weary expression and could be heard jingling it obediently at intervals throughout the day.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">There can be no doubt,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">though,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">that the rattle bored him,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">and that he found other and more soothing amusements when he was left alone.</span> 
    <span id="f000030">For instance,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">Mr.&#160;Button discovered one day that during the preceding week he had smoked more cigars than ever before —</span> 
    <span id="f000032">a phenomenon,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">which was explained a few days later when,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">entering the nursery unexpectedly,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">he found the room full of faint blue haze and Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">with a guilty expression on his face,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">trying to conceal the butt of a dark Havana.</span> 
    <span id="f000038">This,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">of course,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">called for a severe spanking,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">but Mr.&#160;Button found that he could not bring himself to administer it.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">He merely warned his son that he would «stunt his growth.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">Nevertheless he persisted in his attitude.</span> 
    <span id="f000044">He brought home lead soldiers,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">he brought toy trains,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">he brought large pleasant animals made of cotton,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">to perfect the illusion which he was creating —</span> 
    <span id="f000049">for himself at least —</span> 
    <span id="f000050">he passionately demanded of the clerk in the toy–store whether «the paint would come oft the pink duck if the baby put it in his mouth.» But,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">despite all his father’s efforts,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">Benjamin refused to be interested.</span> 
    <span id="f000053">He would steal down the back stairs and return to the nursery with a volume of the Encyclopedia Britannica,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">over which he would pore through an afternoon,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">while his cotton cows and his Noah’s ark were left neglected on the floor.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">Against such a stubbornness Mr.&#160;Button’s efforts were of little avail.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">The sensation created in Baltimore was,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">at first,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">prodigious.</span> 
    <span id="f000060">What the mishap would have cost the Buttons and their kinsfolk socially cannot be determined,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">for the outbreak of the Civil War drew the city’s attention to other things.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">A few people who were unfailingly polite racked their brains for compliments to give to the parents —</span> 
    <span id="f000063">and finally hit upon the ingenious device of declaring that the baby resembled his grandfather,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">a fact which,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">due to the standard state of decay common to all men of seventy,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">could not be denied.</span> 
    <span id="f000067">Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Roger Button were not pleased,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and Benjamin’s grandfather was furiously insulted.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">once he left the hospital,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">took life as he found it.</span> 
    <span id="f000072">Several small boys were brought to see him,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">and he spent a stiff–jointed afternoon trying to work up an interest in tops and marbles —</span> 
    <span id="f000074">he even managed,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">quite accidentally,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">to break a kitchen window with a stone from a sling shot,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">a feat which secretly delighted his father.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000078">Thereafter Benjamin contrived to break something every day,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">but he did these things only because they were expected of him,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and because he was by nature obliging.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000081">When his grandfather’s initial antagonism wore off,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">Benjamin and that gentleman took enormous pleasure in one another’s company.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">They would sit for hours,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">these two,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">so far apart in age and experience,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">like old cronies,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">discuss with tireless monotony the slow events of the day.</span> 
    <span id="f000089">Benjamin felt more at ease in his grandfather’s presence than in his parents’ —</span> 
    <span id="f000090">they seemed always somewhat in awe of him and,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">despite the dictatorial authority they exercised over him,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">frequently addressed him as «Mr.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000093">He was as puzzled as any one else at the apparently advanced age of his mind and body at birth.</span> 
    <span id="f000094">He read up on it in the medical journal,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">but found that no such case had been previously recorded.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">At his father’s urging he made an honest attempt to play with other boys,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">and frequently he joined in the milder games —</span> 
    <span id="f000098">football shook him up too much,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">and he feared that in case of a fracture his ancient bones would refuse to knit.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000100">When he was five he was sent to kindergarten,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">where he initiated into the art of pasting green paper on orange paper,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">of weaving coloured maps and manufacturing eternal cardboard necklaces.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">He was inclined to drowse off to sleep in the middle of these tasks,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">a habit which both irritated and frightened his young teacher.</span> 
    <span id="f000105">To his relief she complained to his parents,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">and he was removed from the school.</span> 
    <span id="f000107">The Roger Buttons told their friends that they felt he was too young.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000108">By the time he was twelve years old his parents had grown used to him.</span> 
    <span id="f000109">Indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">so strong is the force of custom that they no longer felt that he was different from any other child —</span> 
    <span id="f000111">except when some curious anomaly reminded them of the fact.</span> 
    <span id="f000112">But one day a few weeks after his twelfth birthday,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">while looking in the mirror,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">Benjamin made,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">or thought he made,</span> 
    <span id="f000116">an astonishing discovery.</span> 
    <span id="f000117">Did his eyes deceive him,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">or had his hair turned in the dozen years of his life from white to iron–gray under its concealing dye?</span> 
    <span id="f000119">Was the network of wrinkles on his face becoming less pronounced?</span> 
    <span id="f000120">Was his skin healthier and firmer,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">with even a touch of ruddy winter colour?</span> 
    <span id="f000122">He could not tell.</span> 
    <span id="f000123">He knew that he no longer stooped,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and that his physical condition had improved since the early days of his life.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000125">«Can it be—?» he thought to himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">or,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">rather,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">scarcely dared to think.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000129">He went to his father.</span> 
    <span id="f000130">«I am grown,» he announced determinedly.</span> 
    <span id="f000131">«I want to put on long trousers.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000132">His father hesitated.</span> 
    <span id="f000133">«Well,» he said finally,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">«I don’t know.</span> 
    <span id="f000135">Fourteen is the age for putting on long trousers —</span> 
    <span id="f000136">and you are only twelve.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000137">«But you’ll have to admit,» protested Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000138">«that I’m big for my age.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">His father looked at him with illusory speculation.</span> 
    <span id="f000140">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">I’m not so sure of that,» he said.</span> 
    <span id="f000142">«I was as big as you when I was twelve.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000143">This was not true–it was all part of Roger Button’s silent agreement with himself to believe in his son’s normality.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000144">Finally a compromise was reached.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">Benjamin was to continue to dye his hair.</span> 
    <span id="f000146">He was to make a better attempt to play with boys of his own age.</span> 
    <span id="f000147">He was not to wear his spectacles or carry a cane in the street.</span> 
    <span id="f000148">In return for these concessions he was allowed his first suit of long trousers…</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>