<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 4</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Of the life of Benjamin Button between his twelfth and twenty–first year I intend to say little.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">Suffice to record that they were years of normal ungrowth.</span> 
    <span id="f000004">When Benjamin was eighteen he was erect as a man of fifty;</span> 
    <span id="f000005">he had more hair and it was of a dark gray;</span> 
    <span id="f000006">his step was firm,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">his voice had lost its cracked quaver and descended to a healthy baritone.</span> 
    <span id="f000008">So his father sent him up to Connecticut to take examinations for entrance to Yale College.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">Benjamin passed his examination and became a member of the freshman class.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000010">On the third day following his matriculation he received a notification from Mr.&#160;Hart,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">the college registrar,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">to call at his office and arrange his schedule.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">glancing in the mirror,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">decided that his hair needed a new application of its brown dye,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">but an anxious inspection of his bureau drawer disclosed that the dye bottle was not there.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Then he remembered —</span> 
    <span id="f000018">he had emptied it the day before and thrown it away.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000019">He was in a dilemma.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">He was due at the registrar’s in five minutes.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">There seemed to be no help for it —</span> 
    <span id="f000022">he must go as he was.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">He did.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">«Good–morning,» said the registrar politely.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">«You’ve come to inquire about your son.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">as a matter of fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">my name’s Button—» began Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">but Mr.&#160;Hart cut him off.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">«I’m very glad to meet you,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">Mr.&#160;Button.</span> 
    <span id="f000032">I’m expecting your son here any minute.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000033">«That’s me!» burst out Benjamin.</span> 
    <span id="f000034">«I’m a freshman.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000035">«What!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000036">«I’m a freshman.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000037">«Surely you’re joking.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000038">«Not at all.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000039">The registrar frowned and glanced at a card before him.</span> 
    <span id="f000040">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">I have Mr.&#160;Benjamin Button’s age down here as eighteen.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000042">«That’s my age,» asserted Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">flushing slightly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">The registrar eyed him wearily.</span> 
    <span id="f000045">«Now surely,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">Mr.&#160;Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">you don’t expect me to believe that.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000048">Benjamin smiled wearily.</span> 
    <span id="f000049">«I am eighteen,» he repeated.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000050">The registrar pointed sternly to the door.</span> 
    <span id="f000051">«Get out,» he said.</span> 
    <span id="f000052">«Get out of college and get out of town.</span> 
    <span id="f000053">You are a dangerous lunatic.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000054">«I am eighteen.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000055">Mr.&#160;Hart opened the door.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">«The idea!» he shouted.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">«A man of your age trying to enter here as a freshman.</span> 
    <span id="f000058">Eighteen years old,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">are you?</span> 
    <span id="f000060">Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">I’ll give you eighteen minutes to get out of town.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000062">Benjamin Button walked with dignity from the room,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">and half a dozen undergraduates,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">who were waiting in the hall,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">followed him curiously with their eyes.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">When he had gone a little way he turned around,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">faced the infuriated registrar,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">who was still standing in the door–way,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">and repeated in a firm voice:</span> 
    <span id="f000070">«I am eighteen years old.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000071">To a chorus of titters which went up from the group of undergraduates,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">Benjamin walked away.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000073">But he was not fated to escape so easily.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">On his melancholy walk to the railroad station he found that he was being followed by a group,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">then by a swarm,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">and finally by a dense mass of undergraduates.</span> 
    <span id="f000077">The word had gone around that a lunatic had passed the entrance examinations for Yale and attempted to palm himself off as a youth of eighteen.</span> 
    <span id="f000078">A fever of excitement permeated the college.</span> 
    <span id="f000079">Men ran hatless out of classes,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">the football team abandoned its practice and joined the mob,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">professors’ wives with bonnets awry and bustles out of position,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">ran shouting after the procession,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">from which proceeded a continual succession of remarks aimed at the tender sensibilities of Benjamin Button.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000084">«He must be the wandering Jew!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000085">«He ought to go to prep school at his age!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000086">«Look at the infant prodigy!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000087">«He thought this was the old men’s home.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">«Go up to Harvard!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000089">Benjamin increased his gait,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and soon he was running.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">He would show them!</span> 
    <span id="f000092">He <em>would</em> go to Harvard,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">and then they would regret these ill–considered taunts!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000094">Safely on board the train for Baltimore,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">he put his head from the window.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">«You’ll regret this!» he shouted.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">«Ha–ha!» the undergraduates laughed.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">«Ha–ha–ha!» It was the biggest mistake that Yale College had ever made…</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>