<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 5</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">In 1880 Benjamin Button was twenty years old,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">and he signalised his birthday by going to work for his father in Roger Button&#160;&amp;&#160;Co.,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">Wholesale Hardware.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">It was in that same year that he began «going out socially» —</span> 
    <span id="f000006">that is,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">his father insisted on taking him to several fashionable dances.</span> 
    <span id="f000008">Roger Button was now fifty,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and he and his son were more and more companionable —</span> 
    <span id="f000010">in fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">since Benjamin had ceased to dye his hair (which was still grayish) they appeared about the same age,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and could have passed for brothers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">One night in August they got into the phaeton attired in their full–dress suits and drove out to a dance at the Shevlins’ country house,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">situated just outside of Baltimore.</span> 
    <span id="f000015">It was a gorgeous evening.</span> 
    <span id="f000016">A full moon drenched the road to the lustreless colour of platinum,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">and late–blooming harvest flowers breathed into the motionless air aromas that were like low,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">half–heard laughter.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">The open country,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">carpeted for rods around with bright wheat,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">was translucent as in the day.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">It was almost impossible not to be affected by the sheer beauty of the sky —</span> 
    <span id="f000023">almost.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">«There’s a great future in the dry–goods business,» Roger Button was saying.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">He was not a spiritual man —</span> 
    <span id="f000026">his aesthetic sense was rudimentary.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000027">«Old fellows like me can’t learn new tricks,» he observed profoundly.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">«It’s you youngsters with energy and vitality that have the great future before you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000029">Far up the road the lights of the Shevlins’ country house drifted into view,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">and presently there was a sighing sound that crept persistently toward them —</span> 
    <span id="f000031">it might have been the fine plaint of violins or the rustle of the silver wheat under the moon.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">They pulled up behind a handsome brougham whose passengers were disembarking at the door.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">A lady got out,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">then an elderly gentleman,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">then another young lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">beautiful as sin.</span> 
    <span id="f000037">Benjamin started;</span> 
    <span id="f000038">an almost chemical change seemed to dissolve and recompose the very elements of his body.</span> 
    <span id="f000039">A rigour passed over him,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">blood rose into his cheeks,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">his forehead,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and there was a steady thumping in his ears.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">It was first love.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">The girl was slender and frail,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">with hair that was ashen under the moon and honey–coloured under the sputtering gas–lamps of the porch.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">Over her shoulders was thrown a Spanish mantilla of softest yellow,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">butterflied in black;</span> 
    <span id="f000048">her feet were glittering buttons at the hem of her bustled dress.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">Roger Button leaned over to his son.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">«That,» he said,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">«is young Hildegarde Moncrief,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">the daughter of General Moncrief.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">Benjamin nodded coldly.</span> 
    <span id="f000054">«Pretty little thing,» he said indifferently.</span> 
    <span id="f000055">But when the negro boy had led the buggy away,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">he added:</span> 
    <span id="f000057">«Dad,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">you might introduce me to her.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">They approached a group,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">of which Miss Moncrief was the centre.</span> 
    <span id="f000061">Reared in the old tradition,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">she curtsied low before Benjamin.</span> 
    <span id="f000063">Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">he might have a dance.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">He thanked her and walked away —</span> 
    <span id="f000066">staggered away.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000067">The interval until the time for his turn should arrive dragged itself out interminably.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">He stood close to the wall,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">silent,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">inscrutable,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">watching with murderous eyes the young bloods of Baltimore as they eddied around Hildegarde Moncrief,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">passionate admiration in their faces.</span> 
    <span id="f000073">How obnoxious they seemed to Benjamin;</span> 
    <span id="f000074">how intolerably rosy!</span> 
    <span id="f000075">Their curling brown whiskers aroused in him a feeling equivalent to indigestion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000076">But when his own time came,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">and he drifted with her out upon the changing floor to the music of the latest waltz from Paris,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">his jealousies and anxieties melted from him like a mantle of snow.</span> 
    <span id="f000079">Blind with enchantment,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">he felt that life was just beginning.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000081">«You and your brother got here just as we did,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">didn’t you?» asked Hildegarde,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">looking up at him with eyes that were like bright blue enamel.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000084">Benjamin hesitated.</span> 
    <span id="f000085">If she took him for his father’s brother,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">would it be best to enlighten her?</span> 
    <span id="f000087">He remembered his experience at Yale,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">so he decided against it.</span> 
    <span id="f000089">It would be rude to contradict a lady;</span> 
    <span id="f000090">it would be criminal to mar this exquisite occasion with the grotesque story of his origin.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">Later,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">perhaps.</span> 
    <span id="f000093">So he nodded,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">smiled,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">listened,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">was happy.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">«I like men of your age,» Hildegarde told him.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">«Young boys are so idiotic.</span> 
    <span id="f000099">They tell me how much champagne they drink at college,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">and how much money they lose playing cards.</span> 
    <span id="f000101">Men of your age know how to appreciate women.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">Benjamin felt himself on the verge of a proposal —</span> 
    <span id="f000103">with an effort he choked back the impulse.</span> 
    <span id="f000104">«You’re just the romantic age,» she continued —</span> 
    <span id="f000105">«fifty.</span> 
    <span id="f000106">Twenty–five is too worldly–wise;</span> 
    <span id="f000107">thirty is apt to be pale from overwork;</span> 
    <span id="f000108">forty is the age of long stories that take a whole cigar to tell;</span> 
    <span id="f000109">sixty is —</span> 
    <span id="f000110">oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">sixty is too near seventy;</span> 
    <span id="f000112">but fifty is the mellow age.</span> 
    <span id="f000113">I love fifty.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000114">Fifty seemed to Benjamin a glorious age.</span> 
    <span id="f000115">He longed passionately to be fifty.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000116">«I’ve always said,» went on Hildegarde,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">«that I’d rather marry a man of fifty and be taken care of than many a man of thirty and take care of <em>him</em>.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000118">For Benjamin the rest of the evening was bathed in a honey–coloured mist.</span> 
    <span id="f000119">Hildegarde gave him two more dances,</span> 
    <span id="f000120">and they discovered that they were marvellously in accord on all the questions of the day.</span> 
    <span id="f000121">She was to go driving with him on the following Sunday,</span> 
    <span id="f000122">and then they would discuss all these questions further.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">Going home in the phaeton just before the crack of dawn,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">when the first bees were humming and the fading moon glimmered in the cool dew,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">Benjamin knew vaguely that his father was discussing wholesale hardware.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000126">«… And what do you think should merit our biggest attention after hammers and nails?» the elder Button was saying.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000127">«Love,» replied Benjamin absent–mindedly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000128">«Lugs?» exclaimed Roger Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">I’ve just covered the question of lugs.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000131">Benjamin regarded him with dazed eyes just as the eastern sky was suddenly cracked with light,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">and an oriole yawned piercingly in the quickening trees…</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>