<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 6</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">When,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">six months later,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">the engagement of Miss Hildegarde Moncrief to Mr.&#160;Benjamin Button was made known (I say «made known,» for General Moncrief declared he would rather fall upon his sword than announce it),</span> 
    <span id="f000005">the excitement in Baltimore society reached a feverish pitch.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">The almost forgotten story of Benjamin’s birth was remembered and sent out upon the winds of scandal in picaresque and incredible forms.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">It was said that Benjamin was really the father of Roger Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">that he was his brother who had been in prison for forty years,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">that he was John Wilkes Booth in disguise —</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">finally,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">that he had two small conical horns sprouting from his head.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">The Sunday supplements of the New York papers played up the case with fascinating sketches which showed the head of Benjamin Button attached to a fish,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">to a snake,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">finally,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">to a body of solid brass.</span> 
    <span id="f000018">He became known,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">journalistically,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">as the Mystery Man of Maryland.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">But the true story,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">as is usually the case,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">had a very small circulation.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">However,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">every one agreed with General Moncrief that it was «criminal» for a lovely girl who could have married any beau in Baltimore to throw herself into the arms of a man who was assuredly fifty.</span> 
    <span id="f000026">In vain Mr.&#160;Roger Button published his son’s birth certificate in large type in the Baltimore <em>Blaze</em>.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">No one believed it.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">You had only to look at Benjamin and see.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000029">On the part of the two people most concerned there was no wavering.</span> 
    <span id="f000030">So many of the stories about her fiancé were false that Hildegarde refused stubbornly to believe even the true one.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">In vain General Moncrief pointed out to her the high mortality among men of fifty —</span> 
    <span id="f000032">or,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">at least,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">among men who looked fifty;</span> 
    <span id="f000035">in vain he told her of the instability of the wholesale hardware business.</span> 
    <span id="f000036">Hildegarde had chosen to marry for mellowness,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">and marry she did…</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>