<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 7</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">In one particular,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">at least,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">the friends of Hildegarde Moncrief were mistaken.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">The wholesale hardware business prospered amazingly.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">In the fifteen years between Benjamin Button’s marriage in 1880 and his father’s retirement in 1895,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">the family fortune was doubled —</span> 
    <span id="f000008">and this was due largely to the younger member of the firm.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000009">Needless to say,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">Baltimore eventually received the couple to its bosom.</span> 
    <span id="f000011">Even old General Moncrief became reconciled to his son–in–law when Benjamin gave him the money to bring out his <em>History of the Civil War</em> in twenty volumes,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">which had been refused by nine prominent publishers.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">In Benjamin himself fifteen years had wrought many changes.</span> 
    <span id="f000014">It seemed to him that the blood flowed with new vigour through his veins.</span> 
    <span id="f000015">It began to be a pleasure to rise in the morning,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">to walk with an active step along the busy,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">sunny street,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">to work untiringly with his shipments of hammers and his cargoes of nails.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">It was in 1890 that he executed his famous business coup:</span> 
    <span id="f000020">he brought up the suggestion that <em>all nails used in nailing up the boxes in which nails are shipped are the property of the shippee</em>,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">a proposal which became a statute,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">was approved by Chief Justice Fossile,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">and saved Roger Button and Company,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">Wholesale Hardware,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">more than <em>six hundred nails every year</em>.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">In addition,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">Benjamin discovered that he was becoming more and more attracted by the gay side of life.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">It was typical of his growing enthusiasm for pleasure that he was the first man in the city of Baltimore to own and run an automobile.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">Meeting him on the street,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">his contemporaries would stare enviously at the picture he made of health and vitality.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000031">«He seems to grow younger every year,» they would remark.</span> 
    <span id="f000032">And if old Roger Button,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">now sixty–five years old,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">had failed at first to give a proper welcome to his son he atoned at last by bestowing on him what amounted to adulation.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000035">And here we come to an unpleasant subject which it will be well to pass over as quickly as possible.</span> 
    <span id="f000036">There was only one thing that worried Benjamin Button;</span> 
    <span id="f000037">his wife had ceased to attract him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000038">At that time Hildegarde was a woman of thirty–five,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">with a son,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">Roscoe,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">fourteen years old.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">In the early days of their marriage Benjamin had worshipped her.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">But,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">as the years passed,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">her honey–coloured hair became an unexciting brown,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">the blue enamel of her eyes assumed the aspect of cheap crockery —</span> 
    <span id="f000047">moreover,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">most of all,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">she had become too settled in her ways,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">too placid,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">too content,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">too anaemic in her excitements,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">and too sober in her taste.</span> 
    <span id="f000055">As a bride it been she who had «dragged» Benjamin to dances and dinners —</span> 
    <span id="f000056">now conditions were reversed.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">She went out socially with him,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">but without enthusiasm,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">devoured already by that eternal inertia which comes to live with each of us one day and stays with us to the end.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000060">Benjamin’s discontent waxed stronger.</span> 
    <span id="f000061">At the outbreak of the Spanish–American War in 1898 his home had for him so little charm that he decided to join the army.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">With his business influence he obtained a commission as captain,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">and proved so adaptable to the work that he was made a major,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">and finally a lieutenant–colonel just in time to participate in the celebrated charge up San Juan Hill.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">He was slightly wounded,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">and received a medal.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000067">Benjamin had become so attached to the activity and excitement of array life that he regretted to give it up,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">but his business required attention,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">so he resigned his commission and came home.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">He was met at the station by a brass band and escorted to his house.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>