<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 8</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Hildegarde,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">waving a large silk flag,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">greeted him on the porch,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">and even as he kissed her he felt with a sinking of the heart that these three years had taken their toll.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">She was a woman of forty now,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">with a faint skirmish line of gray hairs in her head.</span> 
    <span id="f000008">The sight depressed him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000009">Up in his room he saw his reflection in the familiar mirror —</span> 
    <span id="f000010">he went closer and examined his own face with anxiety,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">comparing it after a moment with a photograph of himself in uniform taken just before the war.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000012">«Good Lord!» he said aloud.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">The process was continuing.</span> 
    <span id="f000014">There was no doubt of it —</span> 
    <span id="f000015">he looked now like a man of thirty.</span> 
    <span id="f000016">Instead of being delighted,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">he was uneasy —</span> 
    <span id="f000018">he was growing younger.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">He had hitherto hoped that once he reached a bodily age equivalent to his age in years,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">the grotesque phenomenon which had marked his birth would cease to function.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">He shuddered.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">His destiny seemed to him awful,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">incredible.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">When he came downstairs Hildegarde was waiting for him.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">She appeared annoyed,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">and he wondered if she had at last discovered that there was something amiss.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">It was with an effort to relieve the tension between them that he broached the matter at dinner in what he considered a delicate way.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000028">«Well,» he remarked lightly,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">«everybody says I look younger than ever.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">Hildegarde regarded him with scorn.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">She sniffed.</span> 
    <span id="f000032">«Do you think it’s anything to boast about?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000033">«I’m not boasting,» he asserted uncomfortably.</span> 
    <span id="f000034">She sniffed again.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">«The idea,» she said,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">and after a moment:</span> 
    <span id="f000037">«I should think you’d have enough pride to stop it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000038">«How can I?» he demanded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000039">«I’m not going to argue with you,» she retorted.</span> 
    <span id="f000040">«But there’s a right way of doing things and a wrong way.</span> 
    <span id="f000041">If you’ve made up your mind to be different from everybody else,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">I don’t suppose I can stop you,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">but I really don’t think it’s very considerate.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">«But,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">Hildegarde,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">I can’t help it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000047">«You can too.</span> 
    <span id="f000048">You’re simply stubborn.</span> 
    <span id="f000049">You think you don’t want to be like any one else.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">You always have been that way,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">and you always will be.</span> 
    <span id="f000052">But just think how it would be if every one else looked at things as you do —</span> 
    <span id="f000053">what would the world be like?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000054">As this was an inane and unanswerable argument Benjamin made no reply,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">and from that time on a chasm began to widen between them.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">He wondered what possible fascination she had ever exercised over him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000057">To add to the breach,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">he found,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">as the new century gathered headway,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">that his thirst for gaiety grew stronger.</span> 
    <span id="f000061">Never a party of any kind in the city of Baltimore but he was there,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">dancing with the prettiest of the young married women,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">chatting with the most popular of the debutantes,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">and finding their company charming,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">while his wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">a dowager of evil omen,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">sat among the chaperons,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">now in haughty disapproval,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">and now following him with solemn,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">puzzled,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">and reproachful eyes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000072">«Look!» people would remark.</span> 
    <span id="f000073">«What a pity!</span> 
    <span id="f000074">A young fellow that age tied to a woman of forty–five.</span> 
    <span id="f000075">He must be twenty years younger than his wife.» They had forgotten —</span> 
    <span id="f000076">as people inevitably forget —</span> 
    <span id="f000077">that back in 1880 their mammas and papas had also remarked about this same ill–matched pair.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000078">Benjamin’s growing unhappiness at home was compensated for by his many new interests.</span> 
    <span id="f000079">He took up golf and made a great success of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000080">He went in for dancing:</span> 
    <span id="f000081">in 1906 he was an expert at «The Boston,» and in 1908 he was considered proficient at the «Maxine,» while in 1909 his «Castle Walk» was the envy of every young man in town.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000082">His social activities,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">of course,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">interfered to some extent with his business,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">but then he had worked hard at wholesale hardware for twenty–five years and felt that he could soon hand it on to his son,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">Roscoe,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">who had recently graduated from Harvard.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">He and his son were,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">in fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">often mistaken for each other.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">This pleased Benjamin —</span> 
    <span id="f000092">he soon forgot the insidious fear which had come over him on his return from the Spanish–American War,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">and grew to take a naïve pleasure in his appearance.</span> 
    <span id="f000094">There was only one fly in the delicious ointment —</span> 
    <span id="f000095">he hated to appear in public with his wife.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">Hildegarde was almost fifty,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">and the sight of her made him feel absurd…</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>