<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 9</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">One September day in 1910 —</span> 
    <span id="f000003">a few years after Roger Button&#160;&amp;&#160;Co.,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">Wholesale Hardware,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">had been handed over to young Roscoe Button —</span> 
    <span id="f000006">a man,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">apparently about twenty years old,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">entered himself as a freshman at Harvard University in Cambridge.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">He did not make the mistake of announcing that he would never see fifty again,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">nor did he mention the fact that his son had been graduated from the same institution ten years before.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000011">He was admitted,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and almost immediately attained a prominent position in the class,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">partly because he seemed a little older than the other freshmen,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">whose average age was about eighteen.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000015">But his success was largely due to the fact that in the football game with Yale he played so brilliantly,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">with so much dash and with such a cold,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">remorseless anger that he scored seven touchdowns and fourteen field goals for Harvard,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">and caused one entire eleven of Yale men to be carried singly from the field,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">unconscious.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">He was the most celebrated man in college.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000021">Strange to say,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">in his third or junior year he was scarcely able to «make» the team.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">The coaches said that he had lost weight,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">and it seemed to the more observant among them that he was not quite as tall as before.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">He made no touchdowns —</span> 
    <span id="f000026">indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">he was retained on the team chiefly in hope that his enormous reputation would bring terror and disorganisation to the Yale team.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000028">In his senior year he did not make the team at all.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">He had grown so slight and frail that one day he was taken by some sophomores for a freshman,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">an incident which humiliated him terribly.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">He became known as something of a prodigy —</span> 
    <span id="f000032">a senior who was surely no more than sixteen —</span> 
    <span id="f000033">and he was often shocked at the worldliness of some of his classmates.</span> 
    <span id="f000034">His studies seemed harder to him —</span> 
    <span id="f000035">he felt that they were too advanced.</span> 
    <span id="f000036">He had heard his classmates speak of St.</span> 
    <span id="f000037">Midas’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">the famous preparatory school,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">at which so many of them had prepared for college,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">and he determined after his graduation to enter himself at St.</span> 
    <span id="f000041">Midas’s,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">where the sheltered life among boys his own size would be more congenial to him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">Upon his graduation in 1914 he went home to Baltimore with his Harvard diploma in his pocket.</span> 
    <span id="f000044">Hildegarde was now residing in Italy,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">so Benjamin went to live with his son,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">Roscoe.</span> 
    <span id="f000047">But though he was welcomed in a general way there was obviously no heartiness in Roscoe’s feeling toward him —</span> 
    <span id="f000048">there was even perceptible a tendency on his son’s part to think that Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">as he moped about the house in adolescent mooniness,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">was somewhat in the way.</span> 
    <span id="f000051">Roscoe was married now and prominent in Baltimore life,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">and he wanted no scandal to creep out in connection with his family.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">no longer <em>persona grata</em> with the débutantes and younger college set,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">found himself left much done,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">except for the companionship of three or four fifteen–year–old boys in the neighbourhood.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">His idea of going to St.</span> 
    <span id="f000058">Midas’s school recurred to him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">«Say,» he said to Roscoe one day,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">«I’ve told you over and over that I want to go to prep,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">school.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000062">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">go,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">then,» replied Roscoe shortly.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">The matter was distasteful to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">and he wished to avoid a discussion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000067">«I can’t go alone,» said Benjamin helplessly.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">«You’ll have to enter me and take me up there.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">«I haven’t got time,» declared Roscoe abruptly.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">His eyes narrowed and he looked uneasily at his father.</span> 
    <span id="f000071">«As a matter of fact,» he added,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">«you’d better not go on with this business much longer.</span> 
    <span id="f000073">You better pull up short.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">You better —</span> 
    <span id="f000075">you better» —</span> 
    <span id="f000076">he paused and his face crimsoned as he sought for words —</span> 
    <span id="f000077">«you better turn right around and start back the other way.</span> 
    <span id="f000078">This has gone too far to be a joke.</span> 
    <span id="f000079">It isn’t funny any longer.</span> 
    <span id="f000080">You —</span> 
    <span id="f000081">you behave yourself!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000082">Benjamin looked at him,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">on the verge of tears.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000084">«And another thing,» continued Roscoe,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">«when visitors are in the house I want you to call me ’Uncle’ —</span> 
    <span id="f000086">not ’Roscoe,’ but ’Uncle,’ do you understand?</span> 
    <span id="f000087">It looks absurd for a boy of fifteen to call me by my first name.</span> 
    <span id="f000088">Perhaps you’d better call me ’Uncle’ <em>all</em> the time,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">so you’ll get used to it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000090">With a harsh look at his father,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">Roscoe turned away…</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>