<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 10</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">At the termination of this interview,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">Benjamin wandered dismally upstairs and stared at himself in the mirror.</span> 
    <span id="f000004">He had not shaved for three months,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">but he could find nothing on his face but a faint white down with which it seemed unnecessary to meddle.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">When he had first come home from Harvard,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">Roscoe had approached him with the proposition that he should wear eye–glasses and imitation whiskers glued to his cheeks,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">and it had seemed for a moment that the farce of his early years was to be repeated.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">But whiskers had itched and made him ashamed.</span> 
    <span id="f000010">He wept and Roscoe had reluctantly relented.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000011">Benjamin opened a book of boys’ stories,</span> 
    <span id="f000012"><em>The Boy Scouts in Bimini Bay</em>,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">and began to read.</span> 
    <span id="f000014">But he found himself thinking persistently about the war.</span> 
    <span id="f000015">America had joined the Allied cause during the preceding month,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">and Benjamin wanted to enlist,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">but,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">alas,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">sixteen was the minimum age,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">and he did not look that old.</span> 
    <span id="f000021">His true age,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">which was fifty–seven,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">would have disqualified him,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">anyway.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000025">There was a knock at his door,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">and the butler appeared with a letter bearing a large official legend in the corner and addressed to Mr.&#160;Benjamin Button.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">Benjamin tore it open eagerly,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">and read the enclosure with delight.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">It informed him that many reserve officers who had served in the Spanish–American War were being called back into service with a higher rank,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">and it enclosed his commission as brigadier–general in the United States army with orders to report immediately.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000031">Benjamin jumped to his feet fairly quivering with enthusiasm.</span> 
    <span id="f000032">This was what he had wanted.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">He seized his cap,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">and ten minutes later he had entered a large tailoring establishment on Charles Street,</span> 
    <span id="f000035">and asked in his uncertain treble to be measured for a uniform.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000036">«Want to play soldier,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">sonny?» demanded a clerk casually.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000038">Benjamin flushed.</span> 
    <span id="f000039">«Say!</span> 
    <span id="f000040">Never mind what I want!» he retorted angrily.</span> 
    <span id="f000041">«My name’s Button and I live on Mt.</span> 
    <span id="f000042">Vernon Place,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">so you know I’m good for it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">«Well,» admitted the clerk hesitantly,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">«if you’re not,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">I guess your daddy is,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">all right.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000048">Benjamin was measured,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">and a week later his uniform was completed.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">He had difficulty in obtaining the proper general’s insignia because the dealer kept insisting to Benjamin that a nice V.W.C.A.</span> 
    <span id="f000051">badge would look just as well and be much more fun to play with.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000052">Saying nothing to Roscoe,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">he left the house one night and proceeded by train to Camp Mosby,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">in South Carolina,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">where he was to command an infantry brigade.</span> 
    <span id="f000056">On a sultry April day he approached the entrance to the camp,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">paid off the taxicab which had brought him from the station,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">and turned to the sentry on guard.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">«Get some one to handle my luggage!» he said briskly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000060">The sentry eyed him reproachfully.</span> 
    <span id="f000061">«Say,» he remarked,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">«where you goin’ with the general’s duds,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">sonny?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000064">Benjamin,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">veteran of the Spanish–American War,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">whirled upon him with fire in his eye,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">but with,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">alas,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">a changing treble voice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">«Come to attention!» he tried to thunder;</span> 
    <span id="f000071">he paused for breath —</span> 
    <span id="f000072">then suddenly he saw the sentry snap his heels together and bring his rifle to the present.</span> 
    <span id="f000073">Benjamin concealed a smile of gratification,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">but when he glanced around his smile faded.</span> 
    <span id="f000075">It was not he who had inspired obedience,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">but an imposing artillery colonel who was approaching on horseback.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000077">«Colonel!» called Benjamin shrilly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000078">The colonel came up,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">drew rein,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">and looked coolly down at him with a twinkle in his eyes.</span> 
    <span id="f000081">«Whose little boy are you?» he demanded kindly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000082">«I’ll soon darn well show you whose little boy I am!» retorted Benjamin in a ferocious voice.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">«Get down off that horse!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000084">The colonel roared with laughter.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000085">«You want him,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">eh,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">general?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">«Here!» cried Benjamin desperately.</span> 
    <span id="f000089">«Read this.» And he thrust his commission toward the colonel.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000090">The colonel read it,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">his eyes popping from their sockets.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000092">«Where’d you get this?» he demanded,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">slipping the document into his own pocket.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000094">«I got it from the Government,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">as you’ll soon find out!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000096">«You come along with me,» said the colonel with a peculiar look.</span> 
    <span id="f000097">«We’ll go up to headquarters and talk this over.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">Come along.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000099">The colonel turned and began walking his horse in the direction of headquarters.</span> 
    <span id="f000100">There was nothing for Benjamin to do but follow with as much dignity as possible —</span> 
    <span id="f000101">meanwhile promising himself a stern revenge.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">But this revenge did not materialise.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">Two days later,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">however,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">his son Roscoe materialised from Baltimore,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">hot and cross from a hasty trip,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">and escorted the weeping general,</span> 
    <span id="f000108"><em>sans</em> uniform,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">back to his home.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>