<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="it" xml:lang="it">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter 11</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">In 1920 Roscoe Button’s first child was born.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">During the attendant festivities,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">however,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">no one thought it «the thing» to mention,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">that the little grubby boy,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">apparently about ten years of age who played around the house with lead soldiers and a miniature circus,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">was the new baby’s own grandfather.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000009">No one disliked the little boy whose fresh,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">cheerful face was crossed with just a hint of sadness,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">but to Roscoe Button his presence was a source of torment.</span> 
    <span id="f000012">In the idiom of his generation Roscoe did not consider the matter «efficient.» It seemed to him that his father,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">in refusing to look sixty,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">had not behaved like a «red–blooded he–man» —</span> 
    <span id="f000015">this was Roscoe’s favourite expression —</span> 
    <span id="f000016">but in a curious and perverse manner.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Indeed,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">to think about the matter for as much as a half an hour drove him to the edge of insanity.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">Roscoe believed that «live wires» should keep young,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">but carrying it out on such a scale was —</span> 
    <span id="f000021">was —</span> 
    <span id="f000022">was inefficient.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">And there Roscoe rested.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">Five years later Roscoe’s little boy had grown old enough to play childish games with little Benjamin under the supervision of the same nurse.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">Roscoe took them both to kindergarten on the same day,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">and Benjamin found that playing with little strips of coloured paper,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">making mats and chains and curious and beautiful designs,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">was the most fascinating game in the world.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">Once he was bad and had to stand in the corner —</span> 
    <span id="f000030">then he cried —</span> 
    <span id="f000031">but for the most part there were gay hours in the cheerful room,</span> 
    <span id="f000032">with the sunlight coming in the windows and Miss Bailey’s kind hand resting for a moment now and then in his tousled hair.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000033">Roscoe’s son moved up into the first grade after a year,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">but Benjamin stayed on in the kindergarten.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">He was very happy.</span> 
    <span id="f000036">Sometimes when other tots talked about what they would do when they grew up a shadow would cross his little face as if in a dim,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">childish way he realised that those were things in which he was never to share.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000038">The days flowed on in monotonous content.</span> 
    <span id="f000039">He went back a third year to the kindergarten,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">but he was too little now to understand what the bright shining strips of paper were for.</span> 
    <span id="f000041">He cried because the other boys were bigger than he,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">and he was afraid of them.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">The teacher talked to him,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">but though he tried to understand he could not understand at all.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000045">He was taken from the kindergarten.</span> 
    <span id="f000046">His nurse,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">Nana,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">in her starched gingham dress,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">became the centre of his tiny world.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">On bright days they walked in the park;</span> 
    <span id="f000051">Nana would point at a great gray monster and say «elephant,» and Benjamin would say it after her,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">and when he was being undressed for bed that night he would say it over and over aloud to her:</span> 
    <span id="f000053">«Elyphant,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">elyphant,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">elyphant.» Sometimes Nana let him jump on the bed,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">which was fun,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">because if you sat down exactly right it would bounce you up on your feet again,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">and if you said «Ah» for a long time while you jumped you got a very pleasing broken vocal effect.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000059">He loved to take a big cane from the hat–rack and go around hitting chairs and tables with it and saying:</span> 
    <span id="f000060">«Fight,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">fight,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">fight.» When there were people there the old ladies would cluck at him,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">which interested him,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">and the young ladies would try to kiss him,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">which he submitted to with mild boredom.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">And when the long day was done at five o’clock he would go upstairs with Nana and be fed on oatmeal and nice soft mushy foods with a spoon.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000067">There were no troublesome memories in his childish sleep;</span> 
    <span id="f000068">no token came to him of his brave days at college,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">of the glittering years when he flustered the hearts of many girls.</span> 
    <span id="f000070">There were only the white,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">safe walls of his crib and Nana and a man who came to see him sometimes,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">and a great big orange ball that Nana pointed at just before his twilight bed hour and called «sun.» When the sun went his eyes were sleepy —</span> 
    <span id="f000073">there were no dreams,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">no dreams to haunt him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000075">The past —</span> 
    <span id="f000076">the wild charge at the head of his men up San Juan Hill;</span> 
    <span id="f000077">the first years of his marriage when he worked late into the summer dusk down in the busy city for young Hildegarde whom he loved;</span> 
    <span id="f000078">the days before that when he sat smoking far into the night in the gloomy old Button house on Monroe Street with his grandfather–all these had faded like unsubstantial dreams from his mind as though they had never been.</span> 
    <span id="f000079">He did not remember.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000080">He did not remember clearly whether the milk was warm or cool at his last feeding or how the days passed —</span> 
    <span id="f000081">there was only his crib and Nana’s familiar presence.</span> 
    <span id="f000082">And then he remembered nothing.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">When he was hungry he cried —</span> 
    <span id="f000084">that was all.</span> 
    <span id="f000085">Through the noons and nights he breathed and over him there were soft mumblings and murmurings that he scarcely heard,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and faintly differentiated smells,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">and light and darkness.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">Then it was all dark,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">and his white crib and the dim faces that moved above him,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and the warm sweet aroma of the milk,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">faded out altogether from his mind.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>