<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />John Greenman</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000004">My Platonic Sweetheart</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000005">by<br />Mark Twain</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000006">I met her first when I was seventeen and she fifteen.</span>
   <span id="f000007">It was in a dream.</span>
   <span id="f000008">No,</span>
   <span id="f000009">I did not meet her;</span>
   <span id="f000010">I overtook her.</span>
   <span id="f000011">It was in a Missourian village which I had never been in before,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and was not in at that time,</span>
   <span id="f000013">except dream-wise;</span>
   <span id="f000014">in the flesh I was on the Atlantic seaboard ten or twelve hundred miles away.</span>
   <span id="f000015">The thing was sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and without preparation -after the custom of dreams.</span>
   <span id="f000017">There I was,</span>
   <span id="f000018">crossing a wooden bridge that had a wooden rail and was untidy with scattered wisps of hay,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and there she was,</span>
   <span id="f000020">five steps in front of me;</span>
   <span id="f000021">half a second previously neither of us was there.</span>
   <span id="f000022">This was the exit of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000023">which lay immediately behind us.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Its last house was the blacksmith-shop;</span>
   <span id="f000025">and the peaceful clinking of the hammers -a sound which nearly always seems remote,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and is always touched with a spirit of loneliness and a feeling of soft regret for something,</span>
   <span id="f000027">you don’t know what -was wafted to my ears over my shoulder;</span>
   <span id="f000028">in front of us was the winding country road,</span>
   <span id="f000029">with woods on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and on the other a rail fence,</span>
   <span id="f000031">with blackberry vines and hazel bushes crowding its angles;</span>
   <span id="f000032">on an upper rail a bluebird,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and scurrying toward him along the same rail a fox-squirrel with his tail bent high like a shepherd’s crook;</span>
   <span id="f000034">beyond the fence a rich field of grain,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and far away a farmer in shirt-sleeves and straw hat wading knee-deep through it;</span>
   <span id="f000036">no other representatives of life,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and no noise at all;</span>
   <span id="f000038">everywhere a Sabbath stillness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">I remember it all -and the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000040">too,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and just how she walked,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and how she was dressed.</span>
   <span id="f000043">In the first moment I was five steps behind her;</span>
   <span id="f000044">in the next one I was at her side - without either stepping or gliding;</span>
   <span id="f000045">it merely happened;</span>
   <span id="f000046">the transfer ignored space.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I noticed that,</span>
   <span id="f000048">but not with any surprise;</span>
   <span id="f000049">it seemed a natural process.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">I was at her side.</span>
   <span id="f000051">I put my arm around her waist and drew her close to me,</span>
   <span id="f000052">for I loved her;</span>
   <span id="f000053">and although I did not know her,</span>
   <span id="f000054">my behavior seemed to me quite natural and right,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and I had no misgivings about it.</span>
   <span id="f000056">She showed no surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000057">no distress,</span>
   <span id="f000058">no displeasure,</span>
   <span id="f000059">but put an arm around my waist,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and turned up her face to mine with a happy welcome in it,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and when I bent down to kiss her she received the kiss as if she was expecting it,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and as if it was quite natural for me to offer it and her to take it and have pleasure in it.</span>
   <span id="f000063">The affection which I felt for her and which she manifestly felt for me was a quite simple fact;</span>
   <span id="f000064">but the quality of it was another matter.</span>
   <span id="f000065">It was not the affection of brother and sister -it was closer than that,</span>
   <span id="f000066">more clinging,</span>
   <span id="f000067">more endearing,</span>
   <span id="f000068">more reverent;</span>
   <span id="f000069">and it was not the love of sweethearts,</span>
   <span id="f000070">for there was no fire in it.</span>
   <span id="f000071">It was somewhere between the two,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and was finer than either,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and more exquisite,</span>
   <span id="f000074">more profoundly contenting.</span>
   <span id="f000075">We often experience this strange and gracious thing in our dream-loves;</span>
   <span id="f000076">and we remember it as a feature of our childhood-loves,</span>
   <span id="f000077">too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">We strolled along,</span>
   <span id="f000079">across the bridge and down the road,</span>
   <span id="f000080">chatting like the oldest friends.</span>
   <span id="f000081">She called me George,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and that seemed natural and right,</span>
   <span id="f000083">though it was not my name;</span>
   <span id="f000084">and I called her Alice,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and she did not correct me,</span>
   <span id="f000086">though without doubt it was not her name.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Everything that happened seemed just natural and to be expected.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Once I said,</span>
   <span id="f000089">“What a dear little hand it is!” and without any words she laid it gracefully in mine for me to examine it.</span>
   <span id="f000090">I did it,</span>
   <span id="f000091">remarking upon its littleness,</span>
   <span id="f000092">its delicate beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and its satin skin,</span>
   <span id="f000094">then kissed it;</span>
   <span id="f000095">she put it up to her lips without saying anything and kissed it in the same place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">Around a curve of the road,</span>
   <span id="f000097">at the end of half a mile,</span>
   <span id="f000098">we came to a log house,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and entered it and found the table set and everything on it steaming hot - a roast turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000100">corn in the ear,</span>
   <span id="f000101">butterbeans,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and the rest of the usual things - and a cat curled up asleep in a splint-bottomed chair by the fireplace;</span>
   <span id="f000103">but no people;</span>
   <span id="f000104">just emptiness and silence.</span>
   <span id="f000105">She said she would look in the next room if I would wait for her.</span>
   <span id="f000106">So I sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and she passed through a door,</span>
   <span id="f000108">which closed behind her with a click of the latch.</span>
   <span id="f000109">I waited and waited.</span>
   <span id="f000110">Then I got up and followed,</span>
   <span id="f000111">for I could not any longer bear to have her out of my sight.</span>
   <span id="f000112">I passed through the door,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and found myself in a strange sort of cemetery,</span>
   <span id="f000114">a city of innumerable tombs and monuments stretching far and wide on every hand,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and flushed with pink and gold lights flung from the sinking sun.</span>
   <span id="f000116">I turned around,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and the log house was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000118">I ran here and there and yonder down the lanes between the rows of tombs,</span>
   <span id="f000119">calling Alice;</span>
   <span id="f000120">and presently the night closed down,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and I could not find my way.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Then I woke,</span>
   <span id="f000123">in deep distress over my loss,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and was in my bed in Philadelphia.</span>
   <span id="f000125">And I was not seventeen,</span>
   <span id="f000126">now,</span>
   <span id="f000127">but nineteen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">Ten years afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000129">in another dream,</span>
   <span id="f000130">I found her.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I was seventeen again,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and she was still fifteen.</span>
   <span id="f000133">I was in a grassy place in the twilight deeps of a magnolia forest some miles above Natchez,</span>
   <span id="f000134">Mississippi;</span>
   <span id="f000135">the trees were snowed over with great blossoms,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and the air was loaded with their rich and strenuous fragrance;</span>
   <span id="f000137">the ground was high,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and through a rift in the wood a burnished patch of the river was visible in the distance.</span>
   <span id="f000139">I was sitting on the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000140">absorbed in thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000141">when an arm was laid around my neck,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and there was Alice sitting by my side and looking into my face.</span>
   <span id="f000143">A deep and satisfied happiness and an unwordable gratitude rose in me,</span>
   <span id="f000144">but with it there was no feeling of surprise;</span>
   <span id="f000145">and there was no sense of a time-lapse;</span>
   <span id="f000146">the ten years amounted to hardly even a yesterday;</span>
   <span id="f000147">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000148">to hardly even a noticeable fraction of it.</span>
   <span id="f000149">We dropped in the tranquilest way into affectionate caressings and pettings,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and chatted along without a reference to the separation;</span>
   <span id="f000151">which was natural,</span>
   <span id="f000152">for I think we did not know there had been any that one might measure with either clock or almanac.</span>
   <span id="f000153">She called me Jack and I called her Helen,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and those seemed the right and proper names,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and perhaps neither of us suspected that we had ever borne others;</span>
   <span id="f000156">or,</span>
   <span id="f000157">if we did suspect it,</span>
   <span id="f000158">it was probably not a matter of consequence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">She had been beautiful ten years before;</span>
   <span id="f000160">she was just as beautiful still;</span>
   <span id="f000161">girlishly young and sweet and innocent,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and she was still that now.</span>
   <span id="f000163">She had blue eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000164">a hair of flossy gold before;</span>
   <span id="f000165">she had black hair now,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and dark-brown eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000167">I noted these differences,</span>
   <span id="f000168">but they did not suggest change;</span>
   <span id="f000169">to me she was the same girl she was before,</span>
   <span id="f000170">absolutely.</span>
   <span id="f000171">It never occurred to me to ask what became of the log house;</span>
   <span id="f000172">I doubt if I even thought of it.</span>
   <span id="f000173">We were living in a simple and natural and beautiful world where everything that happened was natural and right,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and was not perplexed with the unexpected or with any forms of surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and so there was no occasion for explanations and no interest attaching to such things.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">We had a dear and pleasant time together,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and were like a couple of ignorant and contented children.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Helen had a summer hat on.</span>
   <span id="f000179">She took it off presently and said,</span>
   <span id="f000180">“It was in the way;</span>
   <span id="f000181">now you can kiss me better.” It seemed to me merely a bit of courteous and considerate wisdom,</span>
   <span id="f000182">nothing more;</span>
   <span id="f000183">and a natural thing for her to think of and do.</span>
   <span id="f000184">We went wandering through the woods,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and came to a limpid and shallow stream a matter of three yards wide.</span>
   <span id="f000186">She said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“I must not get my feet wet,</span>
   <span id="f000188">dear;</span>
   <span id="f000189">carry me over.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">I took her in my arms and gave her my hat to hold.</span>
   <span id="f000191">This was to keep my own feet from getting wet.</span>
   <span id="f000192">I did not know why this should have that effect;</span>
   <span id="f000193">I merely knew it;</span>
   <span id="f000194">and she knew it,</span>
   <span id="f000195">too.</span>
   <span id="f000196">I crossed the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and said I would go on carrying her,</span>
   <span id="f000198">because it was so pleasant;</span>
   <span id="f000199">and she said it was pleasant to her,</span>
   <span id="f000200">too,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and wished we had thought of it sooner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">All the long afternoon I bore her in my arms,</span>
   <span id="f000203">miles upon miles,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and it never occurred to either of us that there was anything remarkable in a youth like me being able to carry that sweet bundle around half a day without some sense of fatigue or need of rest.</span>
   <span id="f000205">There are many dream-worlds,</span>
   <span id="f000206">but none is so rightly and reasonably and pleasantly arranged as that one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">After dark we reached a great plantation-house,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and it was her home.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I carried her in,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and the family knew me and I knew them,</span>
   <span id="f000211">although we had not met before;</span>
   <span id="f000212">and the mother asked me with ill disguised anxiety how much twelve times fourteen was,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and I said a hundred and thirty-five,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and she put it down on a piece of paper,</span>
   <span id="f000215">saying it was her habit in the process of perfecting her education not to trust important particulars to her memory;</span>
   <span id="f000216">and her husband was offering me a chair,</span>
   <span id="f000217">but noticed that Helen was asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000218">so he said it would be best not to disturb her;</span>
   <span id="f000219">and he backed me softly against a wardrobe and said I could stand more easily now;</span>
   <span id="f000220">then a negro came in,</span>
   <span id="f000221">bowing humbly,</span>
   <span id="f000222">with his slouch-hat in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and asked me if I would have my measure taken.</span>
   <span id="f000224">The question did not surprise me,</span>
   <span id="f000225">but it confused me and worried me,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and I said I should like to have advice about it.</span>
   <span id="f000227">He started toward the door to call advisers;</span>
   <span id="f000228">then he and the family and the lights began to grow dim,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and in a few moments the place was pitch dark;</span>
   <span id="f000230">but straightway there came a flood of moonlight and a gust of cold wind,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and I found myself crossing a frozen lake,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and my arms were empty.</span>
   <span id="f000233">The wave of grief that swept through me woke me up,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and I was sitting at my desk in the newspaper office in San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and I noticed by the clock that I had been asleep less than two minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000236">And what was of more consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000237">I was twenty-nine years old.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">That was 1864.</span>
   <span id="f000239">The next year and the year after I had momentary glimpses of my dream-sweetheart,</span>
   <span id="f000240">but nothing more.</span>
   <span id="f000241">These are set down in my notebooks under their proper dates,</span>
   <span id="f000242">but with no talks nor other particulars added;</span>
   <span id="f000243">which is sufficient evidence to me that there were none to add.</span>
   <span id="f000244">In both of these instances there was the sudden meeting and recognition,</span>
   <span id="f000245">the eager approach,</span>
   <span id="f000246">then the instant disappearance,</span>
   <span id="f000247">leaving the world empty and of no worth.</span>
   <span id="f000248">I remember the two images quite well;</span>
   <span id="f000249">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000250">I remember all the images of that spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and can bring them before me without help of my notebook.</span>
   <span id="f000252">The habit of writing down my dreams of all sorts while they were fresh in my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and then studying them and rehearsing them and trying to find out what the source of dreams is,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and which of the two or three separate persons inhabiting us is their architect,</span>
   <span id="f000255">has given me a good dream-memory - a thing which is not usual with people,</span>
   <span id="f000256">for few drill the dream-memory and,</span>
   <span id="f000257">no memory can be kept strong without that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">I spent a few months in the Hawaiian Islands in 1866,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and in October of that year I delivered my maiden lecture;</span>
   <span id="f000260">it was in San Francisco.</span>
   <span id="f000261">In the following January I arrived in New York,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and had just completed my thirty-first year.</span>
   <span id="f000263">In that year I saw my platonic dream-sweetheart again.</span>
   <span id="f000264">In this dream I was again standing on the stage of the Opera House in San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f000265">ready to lecture,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and with the audience vividly individualized before me in the strong light.</span>
   <span id="f000267">I began,</span>
   <span id="f000268">spoke a few words,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000270">cold with fright;</span>
   <span id="f000271">for I discovered that I had no subject,</span>
   <span id="f000272">no text,</span>
   <span id="f000273">nothing to talk about.</span>
   <span id="f000274">I choked for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000275">then got out a few words,</span>
   <span id="f000276">a lame,</span>
   <span id="f000277">poor attempt at humor.</span>
   <span id="f000278">The house made no response.</span>
   <span id="f000279">There was a miserable pause,</span>
   <span id="f000280">then another attempt,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and another failure.</span>
   <span id="f000282">There were a few scornful laughs;</span>
   <span id="f000283">otherwise the house was silent,</span>
   <span id="f000284">unsmilingly austere,</span>
   <span id="f000285">deeply offended.</span>
   <span id="f000286">I was consuming with shame.</span>
   <span id="f000287">In my distress I tried to work upon its pity.</span>
   <span id="f000288">I began to make servile apologies,</span>
   <span id="f000289">mixed with gross and ill-timed flatteries,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and to beg and plead for forgiveness;</span>
   <span id="f000291">this was too much,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and the people broke into insulting cries,</span>
   <span id="f000293">whistlings,</span>
   <span id="f000294">hootings,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and cat-calls,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and in the midst of this they rose and began to struggle in a confused mass toward the door.</span>
   <span id="f000297">I stood dazed and helpless,</span>
   <span id="f000298">looking out over this spectacle,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and thinking how everybody would be talking about it next day,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and I could not show myself in the streets.</span>
   <span id="f000301">When the house was become wholly empty and still,</span>
   <span id="f000302">I sat down on the only chair that was on the stage and bent my head down on the reading-desk to shut out the look of that place.</span>
   <span id="f000303">Soon that familiar dream-voice spoke my name,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and swept all my troubles away:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“Robert!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">I answered:</span>
   <span id="f000307">“Agnes!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">The next moment we two were lounging up the blossomy gorge called the Iao Valley,</span>
   <span id="f000309">in the Hawaiian Islands.</span>
   <span id="f000310">I recognized,</span>
   <span id="f000311">without any explanations,</span>
   <span id="f000312">that Robert was not my name,</span>
   <span id="f000313">but only a pet name,</span>
   <span id="f000314">a common noun,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and meant “dear”;</span>
   <span id="f000316">and both of us knew that Agnes was not a name,</span>
   <span id="f000317">but only a pet name,</span>
   <span id="f000318">a common noun,</span>
   <span id="f000319">whose spirit was affectionate,</span>
   <span id="f000320">but not conveyable with exactness in any but the dream-language.</span>
   <span id="f000321">It was about the equivalent of “dear,” but the dream-vocabulary shaves meanings finer and closer than do the world’s daytime dictionaries.</span>
   <span id="f000322">We did not know why those words should have those meanings;</span>
   <span id="f000323">we had used words which had no existence in any known language,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and had expected them to be understood,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and they were understood.</span>
   <span id="f000326">In my note-books there are several letters from this dream sweetheart,</span>
   <span id="f000327">in some unknown tongue - presumably dream-tongue - with translations added.</span>
   <span id="f000328">I should like to be master of that tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000329">then I could talk in shorthand.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Here is one of those letters -the whole of it:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“Rax oha tal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">Translation.</span>
   <span id="f000333">- “When you receive this it will remind you that I long to see your face and touch your hand,</span>
   <span id="f000334">for the comfort of it and the peace.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">It is swifter than waking thought;</span>
   <span id="f000336">for thought is not thought at all,</span>
   <span id="f000337">but only a vague and formless fog until it is articulated into words.</span>
   <span id="f000338">We wandered far up the fairy gorge,</span>
   <span id="f000339">gathering the beautiful flowers of the ginger-plant and talking affectionate things,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and tying and retying each others ribbons and cravats,</span>
   <span id="f000341">which didn’t need it;</span>
   <span id="f000342">and finally sat down in the shade of a tree and climbed the vine-hung precipices with our eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000343">up and up and up toward the sky to where the drifting scarfs of white mist clove them across and left the green summits floating pale and remote,</span>
   <span id="f000344">like spectral islands wandering in the deeps of space;</span>
   <span id="f000345">and then we descended to earth and talked again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">“How still it is - and soft,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and balmy,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and reposeful I could never tire of it.</span>
   <span id="f000349">You like it,</span>
   <span id="f000350">don’t you,</span>
   <span id="f000351">Robert?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and I like the whole region - all the islands.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Maui.</span>
   <span id="f000355">It is a darling island.</span>
   <span id="f000356">I have been here before.</span>
   <span id="f000357">Have you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">“Once,</span>
   <span id="f000359">but it wasn’t an island then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“What was it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000361">“It was a sufa.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">I understood.</span>
   <span id="f000363">It was the dream-word for “part of a continent.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“What were the people like?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“They hadn’t come yet.</span>
   <span id="f000366">There weren’t any.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">“Do you know,</span>
   <span id="f000368">Agnes - that is Haleakala,</span>
   <span id="f000369">the dead volcano,</span>
   <span id="f000370">over there across the valley;</span>
   <span id="f000371">was it here in your friend’s time?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000373">but it was burning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“Do you travel much?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">“I think so.</span>
   <span id="f000376">Not here much,</span>
   <span id="f000377">but in the stars a good deal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">“Is it pretty there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">She used a couple of dream-words for “You will go with me some time and you will see.” Non-committal,</span>
   <span id="f000380">as one perceives now,</span>
   <span id="f000381">but I did not notice it then.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">A man-of-war-bird lit on her shoulder;</span>
   <span id="f000383">I put out my hand and caught it.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Its feathers began to fall out,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and it turned into a kitten;</span>
   <span id="f000386">then the kitten’s body began to contract itself to a ball and put out hairy,</span>
   <span id="f000387">long legs,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and soon it was a tarantula;</span>
   <span id="f000389">I was going to keep it,</span>
   <span id="f000390">but it turned into a star-fish,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and I threw it away.</span>
   <span id="f000392">Agnes said it was not worth while to try to keep things;</span>
   <span id="f000393">there was no stability about them.</span>
   <span id="f000394">I suggested rocks;</span>
   <span id="f000395">but she said a rock was like the rest;</span>
   <span id="f000396">it wouldn’t stay.</span>
   <span id="f000397">She picked up a stone,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and it turned into a bat and flew away.</span>
   <span id="f000399">These curious matters interested me,</span>
   <span id="f000400">but that was all;</span>
   <span id="f000401">they did not stir my wonder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">While we were sitting there in the lao gorge talking,</span>
   <span id="f000403">a Kanaka came along who was wrinkled and bent and white-headed,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and he stopped and talked to us in the native tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and we understood him without trouble and answered him in his own speech.</span>
   <span id="f000406">He said he was a hundred and thirty years old,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and he remembered Captain Cook well,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and was present when he was murdered;</span>
   <span id="f000409">saw it with his own eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and also helped.</span>
   <span id="f000411">Then he showed us his gun,</span>
   <span id="f000412">which was of strange make,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and he said it was his own invention and was to shoot arrows with,</span>
   <span id="f000414">though one loaded it with powder and it had a percussion lock.</span>
   <span id="f000415">He said it would carry a hundred miles.</span>
   <span id="f000416">It seemed a reasonable statement;</span>
   <span id="f000417">I had no fault to find with it,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and it did not in any way surprise me.</span>
   <span id="f000419">He loaded it and fired an arrow aloft,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and it darted into the sky and vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000421">Then he went his way,</span>
   <span id="f000422">saying that the arrow would fall near us in half an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and would go many yards into the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000424">not minding the rocks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">I took the time,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and we waited,</span>
   <span id="f000427">reclining upon the mossy slant at the base of a tree,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and gazing into the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000429">By and by there was a hissing sound,</span>
   <span id="f000430">followed by a dull impact,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and Agnes uttered a groan.</span>
   <span id="f000432">She said,</span>
   <span id="f000433">in a series of fainting gasps:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">“Take me to your arms - it passed through me - hold me to your heart - I am afraid to die - closer - closer.</span>
   <span id="f000435">It is growing dark - I cannot see you.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Don’t leave me - where are you?</span>
   <span id="f000437">You are not gone?</span>
   <span id="f000438">You will not leave me?</span>
   <span id="f000439">I would not leave you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">Then her spirit passed;</span>
   <span id="f000441">she was clay in my arms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">The scene changed in an instant and I was awake and crossing Bond Street in New York with a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and it was snowing hard.</span>
   <span id="f000444">We had been talking,</span>
   <span id="f000445">and there had been no observable gaps in the conversation.</span>
   <span id="f000446">I doubt if I had made any more than two steps while I was asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000447">I am satisfied that even the most elaborate and incident-crowded dream is seldom more than a few seconds in length.</span>
   <span id="f000448">It would not cost me very much of a strain to believe in Mohammed’s seventy-year dream,</span>
   <span id="f000449">which began when he knocked his glass over,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and ended in time for him to catch it before the water was spilled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">Within a quarter of an hour I was in my quarters,</span>
   <span id="f000452">undressed,</span>
   <span id="f000453">ready for bed,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and was jotting down my dream in my note-book.</span>
   <span id="f000455">A striking thing happened now.</span>
   <span id="f000456">I finished my notes,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and was just going to turn out the gas when I was caught with a most strenuous gape,</span>
   <span id="f000458">for it was very late and I was very drowsy.</span>
   <span id="f000459">I fell asleep and dreamed again.</span>
   <span id="f000460">What now follows occurred while I was asleep;</span>
   <span id="f000461">and when I woke again the gape had completed itself,</span>
   <span id="f000462">but not long before,</span>
   <span id="f000463">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000464">for I was still on my feet.</span>
   <span id="f000465">I was in Athens - a city which I had not,</span>
   <span id="f000466">then seen,</span>
   <span id="f000467">but I recognized the Parthenon from the pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000468">although it had a fresh look and was in perfect repair.</span>
   <span id="f000469">I passed by it and climbed a grassy hill toward a palatial sort of mansion which was built of red terra-cotta and had a spacious portico,</span>
   <span id="f000470">whose roof was supported by a rank of fluted columns with Corinthian capitals.</span>
   <span id="f000471">It was noonday,</span>
   <span id="f000472">but I met no one.</span>
   <span id="f000473">I passed into the house and entered the first room.</span>
   <span id="f000474">It was very large and light,</span>
   <span id="f000475">its walls were of polished and richly tinted and veined onyx,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and its floor was a pictured pattern in soft colors laid in tiles.</span>
   <span id="f000477">I noted the details of the furniture and the ornaments - a thing which I should not have been likely to do when awake - and they took sharp hold and remained in my memory;</span>
   <span id="f000478">they are not really dim yet,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and this was more than thirty years ago.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">There was a person present - Agnes.</span>
   <span id="f000481">I was not surprised to see her,</span>
   <span id="f000482">but only glad.</span>
   <span id="f000483">She was in the simple Greek costume,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and her hair and eyes were different as to color from those she had had when she died in the Hawaiian Islands half an hour before,</span>
   <span id="f000485">but to me she was exactly her own beautiful little self as I had always known her,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and she was still fifteen,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and I was seventeen once more.</span>
   <span id="f000488">She was sitting on an ivory settee,</span>
   <span id="f000489">crocheting something or other,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and had her crewels in a shallow willow work-basket in her lap.</span>
   <span id="f000491">I sat down by her and we began to chat in the usual way.</span>
   <span id="f000492">I remembered her death,</span>
   <span id="f000493">but the pain and the grief and the bitterness which had been so sharp and so desolating to me at the moment that it happened had wholly passed from me now,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and had left not a scar.</span>
   <span id="f000495">I was grateful to have her back,</span>
   <span id="f000496">but there was no realizable sense that she had ever been gone,</span>
   <span id="f000497">and so it did not occur to me to speak about it,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and she made no reference to it herself.</span>
   <span id="f000499">It may be that she had often died before,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and knew that there was nothing lasting about it,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and consequently nothing important enough in it to make conversation out of.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">When I think of that house and its belongings,</span>
   <span id="f000503">I recognize what a master in taste and drawing and color and arrangement is the dream-artist who resides in us.</span>
   <span id="f000504">In my waking hours,</span>
   <span id="f000505">when the inferior artist in me is in command,</span>
   <span id="f000506">I cannot draw even the simplest picture with a pencil,</span>
   <span id="f000507">nor do anything with a brush and colors;</span>
   <span id="f000508">I cannot bring before my mind’s eye the detail image of any building known to me except my own house at home;</span>
   <span id="f000509">of St.&#160;Paul’s,</span>
   <span id="f000510">St.&#160;Peters,</span>
   <span id="f000511">the Eiffel Tower,</span>
   <span id="f000512">the Taj,</span>
   <span id="f000513">the Capitol at Washington,</span>
   <span id="f000514">I can reproduce only portions,</span>
   <span id="f000515">partial glimpses;</span>
   <span id="f000516">the same with Niagara Falls,</span>
   <span id="f000517">the Matterhorn,</span>
   <span id="f000518">and other familiar things in nature;</span>
   <span id="f000519">I cannot bring before my mind’s eye the face or figure of any human being known to me;</span>
   <span id="f000520">I have seen my family at breakfast within the past two hours;</span>
   <span id="f000521">I cannot bring their images before me,</span>
   <span id="f000522">I do not know how they look;</span>
   <span id="f000523">before me,</span>
   <span id="f000524">as I write,</span>
   <span id="f000525">I see a little grove of young trees in the garden;</span>
   <span id="f000526">high above them projects the slender lance of a young pine,</span>
   <span id="f000527">beyond it is a glimpse of the upper half of a dull-white chimney covered by an A-shaped little roof shingled with brown-red tiles,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and half a mile away is a hill-top densely wooded,</span>
   <span id="f000529">and the red is cloven by a curved,</span>
   <span id="f000530">wide vacancy,</span>
   <span id="f000531">which is smooth and grass-clad;</span>
   <span id="f000532">I cannot shut my eyes and reproduce that picture as a whole at all,</span>
   <span id="f000533">nor any single detail of it except the grassy curve,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and that but vaguely and fleetingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">But my dream-artist can draw anything,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and do it perfectly;</span>
   <span id="f000537">he can paint with all the colors and all the shades,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and do it with delicacy and truth;</span>
   <span id="f000539">he can place before me vivid images of palaces,</span>
   <span id="f000540">cities,</span>
   <span id="f000541">hamlets,</span>
   <span id="f000542">hovels,</span>
   <span id="f000543">mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000544">valleys,</span>
   <span id="f000545">lakes,</span>
   <span id="f000546">skies,</span>
   <span id="f000547">glowing in sunlight or moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000548">or veiled in driving gusts of snow or rain,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and he can set before me people who are intensely alive,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and who feel,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and express their feelings in their faces,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and who also talk and laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000553">sing and swear.</span>
   <span id="f000554">And when I wake I can shut my eyes and bring back those people,</span>
   <span id="f000555">and the scenery and the buildings;</span>
   <span id="f000556">and not only in general view,</span>
   <span id="f000557">but often in nice detail.</span>
   <span id="f000558">While Agnes and I sat talking in that grand Athens house,</span>
   <span id="f000559">several stately Greeks entered from another part of it,</span>
   <span id="f000560">disputing warmly about something or other,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and passed us by with courteous recognition;</span>
   <span id="f000562">and among them was Socrates.</span>
   <span id="f000563">I recognized him by his nose.</span>
   <span id="f000564">A moment later the house and Agnes and Athens vanished away,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and I was in my quarters in New York again and reaching for my note-book.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">In our dreams - I know it!</span>
   <span id="f000567">- we do make the journeys we seem to make:</span>
   <span id="f000568">we do see the things we seem to see;</span>
   <span id="f000569">the people,</span>
   <span id="f000570">the horses,</span>
   <span id="f000571">the cats,</span>
   <span id="f000572">the dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000573">the birds,</span>
   <span id="f000574">the whales,</span>
   <span id="f000575">are real,</span>
   <span id="f000576">not chimeras;</span>
   <span id="f000577">they are living spirits,</span>
   <span id="f000578">not shadows;</span>
   <span id="f000579">and they are immortal and indestructible.</span>
   <span id="f000580">They go whither they will;</span>
   <span id="f000581">they visit all resorts,</span>
   <span id="f000582">all points of interest,</span>
   <span id="f000583">even the twinkling suns that wander in the wastes of space.</span>
   <span id="f000584">That is where those strange mountains are which slide from under our feet while we walk,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and where those vast caverns are whose bewildering avenues close behind us and in front when we are lost,</span>
   <span id="f000586">and shut us in.</span>
   <span id="f000587">We know this because there are no such things here,</span>
   <span id="f000588">and they must be there,</span>
   <span id="f000589">because there is no other place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">This tale is long enough,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and I will close it now.</span>
   <span id="f000592">In the forty-four years that I have known my Dreamland sweetheart,</span>
   <span id="f000593">I have seen her once in two years on an average.</span>
   <span id="f000594">Mainly these were glimpses,</span>
   <span id="f000595">but she was always immediately recognizable,</span>
   <span id="f000596">notwithstanding she was so given to repair herself and getting up doubtful improvements in her hair and eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000597">She was always fifteen,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and looked it and acted it;</span>
   <span id="f000599">and I was always seventeen,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and never felt a day older.</span>
   <span id="f000601">To me she is a real person,</span>
   <span id="f000602">not a fiction,</span>
   <span id="f000603">and her sweet and innocent society has been one of the prettiest and pleasantest experiences of my life.</span>
   <span id="f000604">I know that to you her talk will not seem of the first intellectual order;</span>
   <span id="f000605">but you should hear her in Dreamland - then you would see!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">I saw her a week ago,</span>
   <span id="f000607">just for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000608">Fifteen,</span>
   <span id="f000609">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and I seventeen,</span>
   <span id="f000611">instead of going on sixty-three,</span>
   <span id="f000612">as I was when I went to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000613">We were in India and Bombay was in sight;</span>
   <span id="f000614">also Windsor Castle,</span>
   <span id="f000615">its towers and battlements veiled in a delicate haze,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and from it the Thames flowed,</span>
   <span id="f000617">curving and winding between its swarded banks,</span>
   <span id="f000618">to our feet.</span>
   <span id="f000619">I said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">“There is no question about it,</span>
   <span id="f000621">England is the most beautiful of all the countries.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">Her face lighted with approval,</span>
   <span id="f000623">and she said,</span>
   <span id="f000624">with that sweet and earnest irrelevance of hers:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">“It is,</span>
   <span id="f000626">because it is so marginal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">Then she disappeared.</span>
   <span id="f000628">It was just as well;</span>
   <span id="f000629">she could probably have added nothing to that rounded and perfect statement without damaging its symmetry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">This glimpse of her carries me back to Maui,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and that time when I saw her gasp out her young life.</span>
   <span id="f000632">That was a terrible thing to me at the time.</span>
   <span id="f000633">It was preternaturally vivid;</span>
   <span id="f000634">and the pain and the grief and the misery of it to me transcended many sufferings that I have known in waking life.</span>
   <span id="f000635">For everything in a dream is more deep and strong and sharp and real than is ever its pale imitation in the unreal life which is ours when we go about awake and clothed with our artificial selves in this vague and dull-tinted artificial world.</span>
   <span id="f000636">When we die we shall slough off this cheap intellect,</span>
   <span id="f000637">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000638">and go abroad into Dreamland clothed in our real selves,</span>
   <span id="f000639">and aggrandized and enriched by the command over the mysterious mental magician who is here not our slave,</span>
   <span id="f000640">but only our guest.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

