<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />David Wales</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The She-Wolf</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Saki</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Leonard Bilsiter was one of those people who have failed to find this world attractive or interesting,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and who have sought compensation in an “unseen world” of their own experience or imagination—or invention.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Children do that sort of thing successfully,</span>
   <span id="f000010">but children are content to convince themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and do not vulgarise their beliefs by trying to convince other people.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Leonard Bilsiter’s beliefs were for “the few,” that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000013">anyone who would listen to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">His dabblings in the unseen might not have carried him beyond the customary platitudes of the drawing-room visionary if accident had not reinforced his stock-in-trade of mystical lore.</span>
   <span id="f000015">In company with a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000016">who was interested in a Ural mining concern,</span>
   <span id="f000017">he had made a trip across Eastern Europe at a moment when the great Russian railway strike was developing from a threat to a reality;</span>
   <span id="f000018">its outbreak caught him on the return journey,</span>
   <span id="f000019">somewhere on the further side of Perm,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and it was while waiting for a couple of days at a wayside station in a state of suspended locomotion that he made the acquaintance of a dealer in harness and metalware,</span>
   <span id="f000021">who profitably whiled away the tedium of the long halt by initiating his English travelling companion in a fragmentary system of folk-lore that he had picked up from Trans-Baikal traders and natives.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Leonard returned to his home circle garrulous about his Russian strike experiences,</span>
   <span id="f000023">but oppressively reticent about certain dark mysteries,</span>
   <span id="f000024">which he alluded to under the resounding title of Siberian Magic.</span>
   <span id="f000025">The reticence wore off in a week or two under the influence of an entire lack of general curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and Leonard began to make more detailed allusions to the enormous powers which this new esoteric force,</span>
   <span id="f000027">to use his own description of it,</span>
   <span id="f000028">conferred on the initiated few who knew how to wield it.</span>
   <span id="f000029">His aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000030">Cecilia Hoops,</span>
   <span id="f000031">who loved sensation perhaps rather better than she loved the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000032">gave him as clamorous an advertisement as anyone could wish for by retailing an account of how he had turned a vegetable marrow into a wood pigeon before her very eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000033">As a manifestation of the possession of supernatural powers,</span>
   <span id="f000034">the story was discounted in some quarters by the respect accorded to Mrs.&#160;Hoops’ powers of imagination.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">However divided opinion might be on the question of Leonard’s status as a wonderworker or a charlatan,</span>
   <span id="f000036">he certainly arrived at Mary Hampton’s house-party with a reputation for pre-eminence in one or other of those professions,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and he was not disposed to shun such publicity as might fall to his share.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Esoteric forces and unusual powers figured largely in whatever conversation he or his aunt had a share in,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and his own performances,</span>
   <span id="f000040">past and potential,</span>
   <span id="f000041">were the subject of mysterious hints and dark avowals.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“I wish you would turn me into a wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000043">Mr.&#160;Bilsiter,” said his hostess at luncheon the day after his arrival.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“My dear Mary,” said Colonel Hampton,</span>
   <span id="f000045">“I never knew you had a craving in that direction.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“A she-wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000047">of course,” continued Mrs.&#160;Hampton;</span>
   <span id="f000048">“it would be too confusing to change one’s sex as well as one’s species at a moment’s notice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">“I don’t think one should jest on these subjects,” said Leonard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“I’m not jesting,</span>
   <span id="f000051">I’m quite serious,</span>
   <span id="f000052">I assure you.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Only don’t do it to-day;</span>
   <span id="f000054">we have only eight available bridge players,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and it would break up one of our tables.</span>
   <span id="f000056">To-morrow we shall be a larger party.</span>
   <span id="f000057">To-morrow night,</span>
   <span id="f000058">after dinner—”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“In our present imperfect understanding of these hidden forces I think one should approach them with humbleness rather than mockery,” observed Leonard,</span>
   <span id="f000060">with such severity that the subject was forthwith dropped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">Clovis Sangrail had sat unusually silent during the discussion on the possibilities of Siberian Magic;</span>
   <span id="f000062">after lunch he side-tracked Lord Pabham into the comparative seclusion of the billiard-room and delivered himself of a searching question.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“Have you such a thing as a she-wolf in your collection of wild animals?</span>
   <span id="f000064">A she-wolf of moderately good temper?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">Lord Pabham considered.</span>
   <span id="f000066">“There is Louisa,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000067">“a rather fine specimen of the timber-wolf.</span>
   <span id="f000068">I got her two years ago in exchange for some Arctic foxes.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Most of my animals get to be fairly tame before they’ve been with me very long;</span>
   <span id="f000070">I think I can say Louisa has an angelic temper,</span>
   <span id="f000071">as she-wolves go.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Why do you ask?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">“I was wondering whether you would lend her to me for to-morrow night,” said Clovis,</span>
   <span id="f000074">with the careless solicitude of one who borrows a collar stud or a tennis racquet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“To-morrow night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000077">wolves are nocturnal animals,</span>
   <span id="f000078">so the late hours won’t hurt her,” said Clovis,</span>
   <span id="f000079">with the air of one who has taken everything into consideration;</span>
   <span id="f000080">“one of your men could bring her over from Pabham Park after dusk,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and with a little help he ought to be able to smuggle her into the conservatory at the same moment that Mary Hampton makes an unobtrusive exit.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">Lord Pabham stared at Clovis for a moment in pardonable bewilderment;</span>
   <span id="f000083">then his face broke into a wrinkled network of laughter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000085">that’s your game,</span>
   <span id="f000086">is it?</span>
   <span id="f000087">You are going to do a little Siberian Magic on your own account.</span>
   <span id="f000088">And is Mrs.&#160;Hampton willing to be a fellow-conspirator?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“Mary is pledged to see me through with it,</span>
   <span id="f000090">if you will guarantee Louisa’s temper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">“I’ll answer for Louisa,” said Lord Pabham.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">By the following day the house-party had swollen to larger proportions,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and Bilsiter’s instinct for self-advertisement expanded duly under the stimulant of an increased audience.</span>
   <span id="f000094">At dinner that evening he held forth at length on the subject of unseen forces and untested powers,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and his flow of impressive eloquence continued unabated while coffee was being served in the drawing-room preparatory to a general migration to the card-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">His aunt ensured a respectful hearing for his utterances,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but her sensation-loving soul hankered after something more dramatic than mere vocal demonstration.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“Won’t you do something to <em>convince</em> them of your powers,</span>
   <span id="f000099">Leonard?” she pleaded;</span>
   <span id="f000100">“change something into another shape.</span>
   <span id="f000101">He can,</span>
   <span id="f000102">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000103">if he only chooses to,” she informed the company.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000105">do,” said Mavis Pellington earnestly,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and her request was echoed by nearly everyone present.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Even those who were not open to conviction were perfectly willing to be entertained by an exhibition of amateur conjuring.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">Leonard felt that something tangible was expected of him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“Has anyone present,” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000110">“got a three-penny bit or some small object of no particular value—?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“You’re surely not going to make coins disappear,</span>
   <span id="f000112">or something primitive of that sort?” said Clovis contemptuously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“I think it very unkind of you not to carry out my suggestion of turning me into a wolf,” said Mary Hampton,</span>
   <span id="f000114">as she crossed over to the conservatory to give her macaws their usual tribute from the dessert dishes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“I have already warned you of the danger of treating these powers in a mocking spirit,” said Leonard solemnly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“I don’t believe you can do it,” laughed Mary provocatively from the conservatory;</span>
   <span id="f000117">“I dare you to do it if you can.</span>
   <span id="f000118">I defy you to turn me into a wolf.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">As she said this she was lost to view behind a clump of azaleas.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“Mrs.&#160;Hampton—” began Leonard with increased solemnity,</span>
   <span id="f000121">but he got no further.</span>
   <span id="f000122">A breath of chill air seemed to rush across the room,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and at the same time the macaws broke forth into ear-splitting screams.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“What on earth is the matter with those confounded birds,</span>
   <span id="f000125">Mary?” exclaimed Colonel Hampton;</span>
   <span id="f000126">at the same moment an even more piercing scream from Mavis Pellington stampeded the entire company from their seats.</span>
   <span id="f000127">In various attitudes of helpless horror or instinctive defence they confronted the evil-looking grey beast that was peering at them from amid a setting of fern and azalea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">Mrs.&#160;Hoops was the first to recover from the general chaos of fright and bewilderment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“Leonard!” she screamed shrilly to her nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000130">“turn it back into Mrs.&#160;Hampton at once!</span>
   <span id="f000131">It may fly at us at any moment.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Turn it back!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“I—I don’t know how to,” faltered Leonard,</span>
   <span id="f000134">who looked more scared and horrified than anyone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“What!” shouted Colonel Hampton,</span>
   <span id="f000136">“you’ve taken the abominable liberty of turning my wife into a wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and now you stand there calmly and say you can’t turn her back again!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">To do strict justice to Leonard,</span>
   <span id="f000139">calmness was not a distinguishing feature of his attitude at the moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“I assure you I didn’t turn Mrs.&#160;Hampton into a wolf;</span>
   <span id="f000141">nothing was farther from my intentions,” he protested.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“Then where is she,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and how came that animal into the conservatory?” demanded the Colonel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“Of course we must accept your assurance that you didn’t turn Mrs.&#160;Hampton into a wolf,” said Clovis politely,</span>
   <span id="f000145">“but you will agree that appearances are against you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“Are we to have all these recriminations with that beast standing there ready to tear us to pieces?” wailed Mavis indignantly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“Lord Pabham,</span>
   <span id="f000148">you know a good deal about wild beasts—” suggested Colonel Hampton.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“The wild beasts that I have been accustomed to,” said Lord Pabham,</span>
   <span id="f000150">“have come with proper credentials from well-known dealers,</span>
   <span id="f000151">or have been bred in my own menagerie.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I’ve never before been confronted with an animal that walks unconcernedly out of an azalea bush,</span>
   <span id="f000153">leaving a charming and popular hostess unaccounted for.</span>
   <span id="f000154">As far as one can judge from <em>outward</em> characteristics,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000155">“it has the appearance of a well-grown female of the North American timber-wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000156">a variety of the common species <em>canis lupus</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000158">never mind its Latin name,” screamed Mavis,</span>
   <span id="f000159">as the beast came a step or two further into the room;</span>
   <span id="f000160">“can’t you entice it away with food,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and shut it up where it can’t do any harm?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“If it is really Mrs.&#160;Hampton,</span>
   <span id="f000163">who has just had a very good dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000164">I don’t suppose food will appeal to it very strongly,” said Clovis.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">“Leonard,” beseeched Mrs.&#160;Hoops tearfully,</span>
   <span id="f000166">“even if this is none of your doing can’t you use your great powers to turn this dreadful beast into something harmless before it bites us all—a rabbit or something?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“I don’t suppose Colonel Hampton would care to have his wife turned into a succession of fancy animals as though we were playing a round game with her,” interposed Clovis.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“I absolutely forbid it,” thundered the Colonel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“Most wolves that I’ve had anything to do with have been inordinately fond of sugar,” said Lord Pabham;</span>
   <span id="f000170">“if you like I’ll try the effect on this one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">He took a piece of sugar from the saucer of his coffee cup and flung it to the expectant Louisa,</span>
   <span id="f000172">who snapped it in mid-air.</span>
   <span id="f000173">There was a sigh of relief from the company;</span>
   <span id="f000174">a wolf that ate sugar when it might at the least have been employed in tearing macaws to pieces had already shed some of its terrors.</span>
   <span id="f000175">The sigh deepened to a gasp of thanks-giving when Lord Pabham decoyed the animal out of the room by a pretended largesse of further sugar.</span>
   <span id="f000176">There was an instant rush to the vacated conservatory.</span>
   <span id="f000177">There was no trace of Mrs.&#160;Hampton except the plate containing the macaws’ supper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“The door is locked on the inside!” exclaimed Clovis,</span>
   <span id="f000179">who had deftly turned the key as he affected to test it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">Everyone turned towards Bilsiter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“If you haven’t turned my wife into a wolf,” said Colonel Hampton,</span>
   <span id="f000182">“will you kindly explain where she has disappeared to,</span>
   <span id="f000183">since she obviously could not have gone through a locked door?</span>
   <span id="f000184">I will not press you for an explanation of how a North American timber-wolf suddenly appeared in the conservatory,</span>
   <span id="f000185">but I think I have some right to inquire what has become of Mrs.&#160;Hampton.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">Bilsiter’s reiterated disclaimer was met with a general murmur of impatient disbelief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“I refuse to stay another hour under this roof,” declared Mavis Pellington.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“If our hostess has really vanished out of human form,” said Mrs.&#160;Hoops,</span>
   <span id="f000189">“none of the ladies of the party can very well remain.</span>
   <span id="f000190">I absolutely decline to be chaperoned by a wolf!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“It’s a she-wolf,” said Clovis soothingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">The correct etiquette to be observed under the unusual circumstances received no further elucidation.</span>
   <span id="f000193">The sudden entry of Mary Hampton deprived the discussion of its immediate interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“Some one has mesmerised me,” she exclaimed crossly;</span>
   <span id="f000195">“I found myself in the game larder,</span>
   <span id="f000196">of all places,</span>
   <span id="f000197">being fed with sugar by Lord Pabham.</span>
   <span id="f000198">I hate being mesmerised,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and the doctor has forbidden me to touch sugar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">The situation was explained to her,</span>
   <span id="f000201">as far as it permitted of anything that could be called explanation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Then you <em>really</em> did turn me into a wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000203">Mr.&#160;Bilsiter?” she exclaimed excitedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">But Leonard had burned the boat in which he might now have embarked on a sea of glory.</span>
   <span id="f000205">He could only shake his head feebly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“It was I who took that liberty,” said Clovis;</span>
   <span id="f000207">“you see,</span>
   <span id="f000208">I happen to have lived for a couple of years in North-Eastern Russia,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and I have more than a tourist’s acquaintance with the magic craft of that region.</span>
   <span id="f000210">One does not care to speak about these strange powers,</span>
   <span id="f000211">but once in a way,</span>
   <span id="f000212">when one hears a lot of nonsense being talked about them,</span>
   <span id="f000213">one is tempted to show what Siberian magic can accomplish in the hands of someone who really understands it.</span>
   <span id="f000214">I yielded to that temptation.</span>
   <span id="f000215">May I have some brandy?</span>
   <span id="f000216">the effort has left me rather faint.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">If Leonard Bilsiter could at that moment have transformed Clovis into a cockroach and then have stepped on him he would gladly have performed both operations.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

