<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter I<br />Marley’s Ghost</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Marley was dead:</span>
   <span id="f000003">to begin with.</span>
   <span id="f000004">There is no doubt whatever about that.</span>
   <span id="f000005">The register of his burial was signed by the clergyman,</span>
   <span id="f000006">the clerk,</span>
   <span id="f000007">the undertaker,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and the chief mourner.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Scrooge signed it:</span>
   <span id="f000010">and Scrooge’s name was good upon ’Change,</span>
   <span id="f000011">for anything he chose to put his hand to.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Old Marley was as dead as a door-nail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">Mind!</span>
   <span id="f000014">I don’t mean to say that I know,</span>
   <span id="f000015">of my own knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f000016">what there is particularly dead about a door-nail.</span>
   <span id="f000017">I might have been inclined,</span>
   <span id="f000018">myself,</span>
   <span id="f000019">to regard a coffin-nail as the deadest piece of ironmongery in the trade.</span>
   <span id="f000020">But the wisdom of our ancestors is in the simile;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and my unhallowed hands shall not disturb it,</span>
   <span id="f000022">or the Country’s done for.</span>
   <span id="f000023">You will therefore permit me to repeat,</span>
   <span id="f000024">emphatically,</span>
   <span id="f000025">that Marley was as dead as a door-nail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">Scrooge knew he was dead?</span>
   <span id="f000027">Of course he did.</span>
   <span id="f000028">How could it be otherwise?</span>
   <span id="f000029">Scrooge and he were partners for I don’t know how many years.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Scrooge was his sole executor,</span>
   <span id="f000031">his sole administrator,</span>
   <span id="f000032">his sole assign,</span>
   <span id="f000033">his sole residuary legatee,</span>
   <span id="f000034">his sole friend,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and sole mourner.</span>
   <span id="f000036">And even Scrooge was not so dreadfully cut up by the sad event,</span>
   <span id="f000037">but that he was an excellent man of business on the very day of the funeral,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and solemnised it with an undoubted bargain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">The mention of Marley’s funeral brings me back to the point I started from.</span>
   <span id="f000040">There is no doubt that Marley was dead.</span>
   <span id="f000041">This must be distinctly understood,</span>
   <span id="f000042">or nothing wonderful can come of the story I am going to relate.</span>
   <span id="f000043">If we were not perfectly convinced that Hamlet’s Father died before the play began,</span>
   <span id="f000044">there would be nothing more remarkable in his taking a stroll at night,</span>
   <span id="f000045">in an easterly wind,</span>
   <span id="f000046">upon his own ramparts,</span>
   <span id="f000047">than there would be in any other middle-aged gentleman rashly turning out after dark in a breezy spot – say Saint Paul’s Churchyard for instance – literally to astonish his son’s weak mind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">Scrooge never painted out Old Marley’s name.</span>
   <span id="f000049">There it stood,</span>
   <span id="f000050">years afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000051">above the warehouse door:</span>
   <span id="f000052">Scrooge and Marley.</span>
   <span id="f000053">The firm was known as Scrooge and Marley.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Sometimes people new to the business called Scrooge Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and sometimes Marley,</span>
   <span id="f000056">but he answered to both names.</span>
   <span id="f000057">It was all the same to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000059">But he was a tight-fisted hand at the grind-stone,</span>
   <span id="f000060">Scrooge!</span>
   <span id="f000061">a squeezing,</span>
   <span id="f000062">wrenching,</span>
   <span id="f000063">grasping,</span>
   <span id="f000064">scraping,</span>
   <span id="f000065">clutching,</span>
   <span id="f000066">covetous,</span>
   <span id="f000067">old sinner!</span>
   <span id="f000068">Hard and sharp as flint,</span>
   <span id="f000069">from which no steel had ever struck out generous fire;</span>
   <span id="f000070">secret,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and self-contained,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and solitary as an oyster.</span>
   <span id="f000073">The cold within him froze his old features,</span>
   <span id="f000074">nipped his pointed nose,</span>
   <span id="f000075">shrivelled his cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000076">stiffened his gait;</span>
   <span id="f000077">made his eyes red,</span>
   <span id="f000078">his thin lips blue;</span>
   <span id="f000079">and spoke out shrewdly in his grating voice.</span>
   <span id="f000080">A frosty rime was on his head,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and on his eyebrows,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and his wiry chin.</span>
   <span id="f000083">He carried his own low temperature always about with him;</span>
   <span id="f000084">he iced his office in the dog-days;</span>
   <span id="f000085">and didn’t thaw it one degree at Christmas.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">External heat and cold had little influence on Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000087">No warmth could warm,</span>
   <span id="f000088">no wintry weather chill him.</span>
   <span id="f000089">No wind that blew was bitterer than he,</span>
   <span id="f000090">no falling snow was more intent upon its purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000091">no pelting rain less open to entreaty.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Foul weather didn’t know where to have him.</span>
   <span id="f000093">The heaviest rain,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and snow,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and hail,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and sleet,</span>
   <span id="f000097">could boast of the advantage over him in only one respect.</span>
   <span id="f000098">They often “came down” handsomely,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and Scrooge never did.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">Nobody ever stopped him in the street to say,</span>
   <span id="f000101">with gladsome looks,</span>
   <span id="f000102">“My dear Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000103">how are you?</span>
   <span id="f000104">When will you come to see me?” No beggars implored him to bestow a trifle,</span>
   <span id="f000105">no children asked him what it was o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000106">no man or woman ever once in all his life inquired the way to such and such a place,</span>
   <span id="f000107">of Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Even the blind men’s dogs appeared to know him;</span>
   <span id="f000109">and when they saw him coming on,</span>
   <span id="f000110">would tug their owners into doorways and up courts;</span>
   <span id="f000111">and then would wag their tails as though they said,</span>
   <span id="f000112">“No eye at all is better than an evil eye,</span>
   <span id="f000113">dark master!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">But what did Scrooge care!</span>
   <span id="f000115">It was the very thing he liked.</span>
   <span id="f000116">To edge his way along the crowded paths of life,</span>
   <span id="f000117">warning all human sympathy to keep its distance,</span>
   <span id="f000118">was what the knowing ones call “nuts” to Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">Once upon a time – of all the good days in the year,</span>
   <span id="f000120">on Christmas Eve – old Scrooge sat busy in his counting-house.</span>
   <span id="f000121">It was cold,</span>
   <span id="f000122">bleak,</span>
   <span id="f000123">biting weather:</span>
   <span id="f000124">foggy withal:</span>
   <span id="f000125">and he could hear the people in the court outside,</span>
   <span id="f000126">go wheezing up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000127">beating their hands upon their breasts,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and stamping their feet upon the pavement stones to warm them.</span>
   <span id="f000129">The city clocks had only just gone three,</span>
   <span id="f000130">but it was quite dark already – it had not been light all day – and candles were flaring in the windows of the neighbouring offices,</span>
   <span id="f000131">like ruddy smears upon the palpable brown air.</span>
   <span id="f000132">The fog came pouring in at every chink and keyhole,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and was so dense without,</span>
   <span id="f000134">that although the court was of the narrowest,</span>
   <span id="f000135">the houses opposite were mere phantoms.</span>
   <span id="f000136">To see the dingy cloud come drooping down,</span>
   <span id="f000137">obscuring everything,</span>
   <span id="f000138">one might have thought that Nature lived hard by,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and was brewing on a large scale.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">The door of Scrooge’s counting-house was open that he might keep his eye upon his clerk,</span>
   <span id="f000141">who in a dismal little cell beyond,</span>
   <span id="f000142">a sort of tank,</span>
   <span id="f000143">was copying letters.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Scrooge had a very small fire,</span>
   <span id="f000145">but the clerk’s fire was so very much smaller that it looked like one coal.</span>
   <span id="f000146">But he couldn’t replenish it,</span>
   <span id="f000147">for Scrooge kept the coal-box in his own room;</span>
   <span id="f000148">and so surely as the clerk came in with the shovel,</span>
   <span id="f000149">the master predicted that it would be necessary for them to part.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Wherefore the clerk put on his white comforter,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and tried to warm himself at the candle;</span>
   <span id="f000152">in which effort,</span>
   <span id="f000153">not being a man of a strong imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000154">he failed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“A merry Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000156">uncle!</span>
   <span id="f000157">God save you!” cried a cheerful voice.</span>
   <span id="f000158">It was the voice of Scrooge’s nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000159">who came upon him so quickly that this was the first intimation he had of his approach.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“Bah!” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000161">“Humbug!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">He had so heated himself with rapid walking in the fog and frost,</span>
   <span id="f000163">this nephew of Scrooge’s,</span>
   <span id="f000164">that he was all in a glow;</span>
   <span id="f000165">his face was ruddy and handsome;</span>
   <span id="f000166">his eyes sparkled,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and his breath smoked again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“Christmas a humbug,</span>
   <span id="f000169">uncle!” said Scrooge’s nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000170">“You don’t mean that,</span>
   <span id="f000171">I am sure?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“I do,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000173">“Merry Christmas!</span>
   <span id="f000174">What right have you to be merry?</span>
   <span id="f000175">What reason have you to be merry?</span>
   <span id="f000176">You’re poor enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000178">then,” returned the nephew gaily.</span>
   <span id="f000179">“What right have you to be dismal?</span>
   <span id="f000180">What reason have you to be morose?</span>
   <span id="f000181">You’re rich enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">Scrooge having no better answer ready on the spur of the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000183">said,</span>
   <span id="f000184">“Bah!” again;</span>
   <span id="f000185">and followed it up with “Humbug.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“Don’t be cross,</span>
   <span id="f000187">uncle!” said the nephew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“What else can I be,” returned the uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000189">“when I live in such a world of fools as this?</span>
   <span id="f000190">Merry Christmas!</span>
   <span id="f000191">Out upon merry Christmas!</span>
   <span id="f000192">What’s Christmas time to you but a time for paying bills without money;</span>
   <span id="f000193">a time for finding yourself a year older,</span>
   <span id="f000194">but not an hour richer;</span>
   <span id="f000195">a time for balancing your books and having every item in ’em through a round dozen of months presented dead against you?</span>
   <span id="f000196">If I could work my will,” said Scrooge indignantly,</span>
   <span id="f000197">“every idiot who goes about with ’Merry Christmas’ on his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000198">should be boiled with his own pudding,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and buried with a stake of holly through his heart.</span>
   <span id="f000200">He should!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Uncle!” pleaded the nephew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Nephew!” returned the uncle sternly,</span>
   <span id="f000203">“keep Christmas in your own way,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and let me keep it in mine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“Keep it!” repeated Scrooge’s nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000206">“But you don’t keep it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">“Let me leave it alone,</span>
   <span id="f000208">then,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000209">“Much good may it do you!</span>
   <span id="f000210">Much good it has ever done you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“There are many things from which I might have derived good,</span>
   <span id="f000212">by which I have not profited,</span>
   <span id="f000213">I dare say,” returned the nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000214">“Christmas among the rest.</span>
   <span id="f000215">But I am sure I have always thought of Christmas time,</span>
   <span id="f000216">when it has come round – apart from the veneration due to its sacred name and origin,</span>
   <span id="f000217">if anything belonging to it can be apart from that – as a good time;</span>
   <span id="f000218">a kind,</span>
   <span id="f000219">forgiving,</span>
   <span id="f000220">charitable,</span>
   <span id="f000221">pleasant time;</span>
   <span id="f000222">the only time I know of,</span>
   <span id="f000223">in the long calendar of the year,</span>
   <span id="f000224">when men and women seem by one consent to open their shut-up hearts freely,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and to think of people below them as if they really were fellow-passengers to the grave,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and not another race of creatures bound on other journeys.</span>
   <span id="f000227">And therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000228">uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000229">though it has never put a scrap of gold or silver in my pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000230">I believe that it has done me good,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and will do me good;</span>
   <span id="f000232">and I say,</span>
   <span id="f000233">God bless it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">The clerk in the Tank involuntarily applauded.</span>
   <span id="f000235">Becoming immediately sensible of the impropriety,</span>
   <span id="f000236">he poked the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and extinguished the last frail spark for ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“Let me hear another sound from you,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000239">“and you’ll keep your Christmas by losing your situation!</span>
   <span id="f000240">You’re quite a powerful speaker,</span>
   <span id="f000241">sir,” he added,</span>
   <span id="f000242">turning to his nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000243">“I wonder you don’t go into Parliament.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“Don’t be angry,</span>
   <span id="f000245">uncle.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Come!</span>
   <span id="f000247">Dine with us to-morrow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">Scrooge said that he would see him – yes,</span>
   <span id="f000249">indeed he did.</span>
   <span id="f000250">He went the whole length of the expression,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and said that he would see him in that extremity first.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“But why?” cried Scrooge’s nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000253">“Why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“Why did you get married?” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“Because I fell in love.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">“Because you fell in love!” growled Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000257">as if that were the only one thing in the world more ridiculous than a merry Christmas.</span>
   <span id="f000258">“Good afternoon!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">“Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000260">uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000261">but you never came to see me before that happened.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Why give it as a reason for not coming now?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Good afternoon,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“I want nothing from you;</span>
   <span id="f000265">I ask nothing of you;</span>
   <span id="f000266">why cannot we be friends?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“Good afternoon,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“I am sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000269">with all my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000270">to find you so resolute.</span>
   <span id="f000271">We have never had any quarrel,</span>
   <span id="f000272">to which I have been a party.</span>
   <span id="f000273">But I have made the trial in homage to Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and I’ll keep my Christmas humour to the last.</span>
   <span id="f000275">So A Merry Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000276">uncle!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Good afternoon!” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“And A Happy New Year!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">“Good afternoon!” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">His nephew left the room without an angry word,</span>
   <span id="f000281">notwithstanding.</span>
   <span id="f000282">He stopped at the outer door to bestow the greetings of the season on the clerk,</span>
   <span id="f000283">who,</span>
   <span id="f000284">cold as he was,</span>
   <span id="f000285">was warmer than Scrooge;</span>
   <span id="f000286">for he returned them cordially.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“There’s another fellow,” muttered Scrooge;</span>
   <span id="f000288">who overheard him:</span>
   <span id="f000289">“my clerk,</span>
   <span id="f000290">with fifteen shillings a week,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and a wife and family,</span>
   <span id="f000292">talking about a merry Christmas.</span>
   <span id="f000293">I’ll retire to Bedlam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">This lunatic,</span>
   <span id="f000295">in letting Scrooge’s nephew out,</span>
   <span id="f000296">had let two other people in.</span>
   <span id="f000297">They were portly gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000298">pleasant to behold,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and now stood,</span>
   <span id="f000300">with their hats off,</span>
   <span id="f000301">in Scrooge’s office.</span>
   <span id="f000302">They had books and papers in their hands,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and bowed to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“Scrooge and Marley’s,</span>
   <span id="f000305">I believe,” said one of the gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000306">referring to his list.</span>
   <span id="f000307">“Have I the pleasure of addressing Mr.&#160;Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000308">or Mr.&#160;Marley?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“Mr.&#160;Marley has been dead these seven years,” Scrooge replied.</span>
   <span id="f000310">“He died seven years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000311">this very night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“We have no doubt his liberality is well represented by his surviving partner,” said the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000313">presenting his credentials.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">It certainly was;</span>
   <span id="f000315">for they had been two kindred spirits.</span>
   <span id="f000316">At the ominous word “liberality,” Scrooge frowned,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and shook his head,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and handed the credentials back.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“At this festive season of the year,</span>
   <span id="f000320">Mr.&#160;Scrooge,” said the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000321">taking up a pen,</span>
   <span id="f000322">“it is more than usually desirable that we should make some slight provision for the Poor and destitute,</span>
   <span id="f000323">who suffer greatly at the present time.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Many thousands are in want of common necessaries;</span>
   <span id="f000325">hundreds of thousands are in want of common comforts,</span>
   <span id="f000326">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“Are there no prisons?” asked Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“Plenty of prisons,” said the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000329">laying down the pen again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“And the Union workhouses?” demanded Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000331">“Are they still in operation?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“They are.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Still,” returned the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000334">“I wish I could say they were not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“The Treadmill and the Poor Law are in full vigour,</span>
   <span id="f000336">then?” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“Both very busy,</span>
   <span id="f000338">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000340">I was afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000341">from what you said at first,</span>
   <span id="f000342">that something had occurred to stop them in their useful course,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000343">“I’m very glad to hear it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">“Under the impression that they scarcely furnish Christian cheer of mind or body to the multitude,” returned the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000345">“a few of us are endeavouring to raise a fund to buy the Poor some meat and drink,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and means of warmth.</span>
   <span id="f000347">We choose this time,</span>
   <span id="f000348">because it is a time,</span>
   <span id="f000349">of all others,</span>
   <span id="f000350">when Want is keenly felt,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and Abundance rejoices.</span>
   <span id="f000352">What shall I put you down for?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">“Nothing!” Scrooge replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">“You wish to be anonymous?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“I wish to be left alone,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000356">“Since you ask me what I wish,</span>
   <span id="f000357">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000358">that is my answer.</span>
   <span id="f000359">I don’t make merry myself at Christmas and I can’t afford to make idle people merry.</span>
   <span id="f000360">I help to support the establishments I have mentioned – they cost enough;</span>
   <span id="f000361">and those who are badly off must go there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">“Many can’t go there;</span>
   <span id="f000363">and many would rather die.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">“If they would rather die,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000365">“they had better do it,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and decrease the surplus population.</span>
   <span id="f000367">Besides – excuse me – I don’t know that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“But you might know it,” observed the gentleman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“It’s not my business,” Scrooge returned.</span>
   <span id="f000370">“It’s enough for a man to understand his own business,</span>
   <span id="f000371">and not to interfere with other people’s.</span>
   <span id="f000372">Mine occupies me constantly.</span>
   <span id="f000373">Good afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000374">gentlemen!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">Seeing clearly that it would be useless to pursue their point,</span>
   <span id="f000376">the gentlemen withdrew.</span>
   <span id="f000377">Scrooge resumed his labours with an improved opinion of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and in a more facetious temper than was usual with him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">Meanwhile the fog and darkness thickened so,</span>
   <span id="f000380">that people ran about with flaring links,</span>
   <span id="f000381">proffering their services to go before horses in carriages,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and conduct them on their way.</span>
   <span id="f000383">The ancient tower of a church,</span>
   <span id="f000384">whose gruff old bell was always peeping slily down at Scrooge out of a Gothic window in the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000385">became invisible,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and struck the hours and quarters in the clouds,</span>
   <span id="f000387">with tremulous vibrations afterwards as if its teeth were chattering in its frozen head up there.</span>
   <span id="f000388">The cold became intense.</span>
   <span id="f000389">In the main street,</span>
   <span id="f000390">at the corner of the court,</span>
   <span id="f000391">some labourers were repairing the gas-pipes,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and had lighted a great fire in a brazier,</span>
   <span id="f000393">round which a party of ragged men and boys were gathered:</span>
   <span id="f000394">warming their hands and winking their eyes before the blaze in rapture.</span>
   <span id="f000395">The water-plug being left in solitude,</span>
   <span id="f000396">its overflowings sullenly congealed,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and turned to misanthropic ice.</span>
   <span id="f000398">The brightness of the shops where holly sprigs and berries crackled in the lamp heat of the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000399">made pale faces ruddy as they passed.</span>
   <span id="f000400">Poulterers’ and grocers’ trades became a splendid joke:</span>
   <span id="f000401">a glorious pageant,</span>
   <span id="f000402">with which it was next to impossible to believe that such dull principles as bargain and sale had anything to do.</span>
   <span id="f000403">The Lord Mayor,</span>
   <span id="f000404">in the stronghold of the mighty Mansion House,</span>
   <span id="f000405">gave orders to his fifty cooks and butlers to keep Christmas as a Lord Mayor’s household should;</span>
   <span id="f000406">and even the little tailor,</span>
   <span id="f000407">whom he had fined five shillings on the previous Monday for being drunk and bloodthirsty in the streets,</span>
   <span id="f000408">stirred up to-morrow’s pudding in his garret,</span>
   <span id="f000409">while his lean wife and the baby sallied out to buy the beef.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">Foggier yet,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and colder.</span>
   <span id="f000412">Piercing,</span>
   <span id="f000413">searching,</span>
   <span id="f000414">biting cold.</span>
   <span id="f000415">If the good Saint Dunstan had but nipped the Evil Spirit’s nose with a touch of such weather as that,</span>
   <span id="f000416">instead of using his familiar weapons,</span>
   <span id="f000417">then indeed he would have roared to lusty purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The owner of one scant young nose,</span>
   <span id="f000419">gnawed and mumbled by the hungry cold as bones are gnawed by dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000420">stooped down at Scrooge’s keyhole to regale him with a Christmas carol:</span>
   <span id="f000421">but at the first sound of</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000422">“God bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000423">merry gentleman!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000424">May nothing you dismay!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000425">Scrooge seized the ruler with such energy of action,</span>
   <span id="f000426">that the singer fled in terror,</span>
   <span id="f000427">leaving the keyhole to the fog and even more congenial frost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">At length the hour of shutting up the counting-house arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000429">With an ill-will Scrooge dismounted from his stool,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and tacitly admitted the fact to the expectant clerk in the Tank,</span>
   <span id="f000431">who instantly snuffed his candle out,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and put on his hat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“You’ll want all day to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000434">I suppose?” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">“If quite convenient,</span>
   <span id="f000436">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“It’s not convenient,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000438">“and it’s not fair.</span>
   <span id="f000439">If I was to stop half-a-crown for it,</span>
   <span id="f000440">you’d think yourself ill-used,</span>
   <span id="f000441">I’ll be bound?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">The clerk smiled faintly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“And yet,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000444">“you don’t think me ill-used,</span>
   <span id="f000445">when I pay a day’s wages for no work.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">The clerk observed that it was only once a year.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“A poor excuse for picking a man’s pocket every twenty-fifth of December!” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000448">buttoning his great-coat to the chin.</span>
   <span id="f000449">“But I suppose you must have the whole day.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Be here all the earlier next morning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">The clerk promised that he would;</span>
   <span id="f000452">and Scrooge walked out with a growl.</span>
   <span id="f000453">The office was closed in a twinkling,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and the clerk,</span>
   <span id="f000455">with the long ends of his white comforter dangling below his waist</span>
   <span id="f000456">(for he boasted no great-coat),</span>
   <span id="f000457">went down a slide on Cornhill,</span>
   <span id="f000458">at the end of a lane of boys,</span>
   <span id="f000459">twenty times,</span>
   <span id="f000460">in honour of its being Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and then ran home to Camden Town as hard as he could pelt,</span>
   <span id="f000462">to play at blindman’s-buff.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">Scrooge took his melancholy dinner in his usual melancholy tavern;</span>
   <span id="f000464">and having read all the newspapers,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and beguiled the rest of the evening with his banker’s-book,</span>
   <span id="f000466">went home to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000467">He lived in chambers which had once belonged to his deceased partner.</span>
   <span id="f000468">They were a gloomy suite of rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000469">in a lowering pile of building up a yard,</span>
   <span id="f000470">where it had so little business to be,</span>
   <span id="f000471">that one could scarcely help fancying it must have run there when it was a young house,</span>
   <span id="f000472">playing at hide-and-seek with other houses,</span>
   <span id="f000473">and forgotten the way out again.</span>
   <span id="f000474">It was old enough now,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and dreary enough,</span>
   <span id="f000476">for nobody lived in it but Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000477">the other rooms being all let out as offices.</span>
   <span id="f000478">The yard was so dark that even Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000479">who knew its every stone,</span>
   <span id="f000480">was fain to grope with his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000481">The fog and frost so hung about the black old gateway of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000482">that it seemed as if the Genius of the Weather sat in mournful meditation on the threshold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000484">it is a fact,</span>
   <span id="f000485">that there was nothing at all particular about the knocker on the door,</span>
   <span id="f000486">except that it was very large.</span>
   <span id="f000487">It is also a fact,</span>
   <span id="f000488">that Scrooge had seen it,</span>
   <span id="f000489">night and morning,</span>
   <span id="f000490">during his whole residence in that place;</span>
   <span id="f000491">also that Scrooge had as little of what is called fancy about him as any man in the city of London,</span>
   <span id="f000492">even including – which is a bold word – the corporation,</span>
   <span id="f000493">aldermen,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and livery.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Let it also be borne in mind that Scrooge had not bestowed one thought on Marley,</span>
   <span id="f000496">since his last mention of his seven years’ dead partner that afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000497">And then let any man explain to me,</span>
   <span id="f000498">if he can,</span>
   <span id="f000499">how it happened that Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000500">having his key in the lock of the door,</span>
   <span id="f000501">saw in the knocker,</span>
   <span id="f000502">without its undergoing any intermediate process of change – not a knocker,</span>
   <span id="f000503">but Marley’s face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">Marley’s face.</span>
   <span id="f000505">It was not in impenetrable shadow as the other objects in the yard were,</span>
   <span id="f000506">but had a dismal light about it,</span>
   <span id="f000507">like a bad lobster in a dark cellar.</span>
   <span id="f000508">It was not angry or ferocious,</span>
   <span id="f000509">but looked at Scrooge as Marley used to look:</span>
   <span id="f000510">with ghostly spectacles turned up on its ghostly forehead.</span>
   <span id="f000511">The hair was curiously stirred,</span>
   <span id="f000512">as if by breath or hot air;</span>
   <span id="f000513">and,</span>
   <span id="f000514">though the eyes were wide open,</span>
   <span id="f000515">they were perfectly motionless.</span>
   <span id="f000516">That,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and its livid colour,</span>
   <span id="f000518">made it horrible;</span>
   <span id="f000519">but its horror seemed to be in spite of the face and beyond its control,</span>
   <span id="f000520">rather than a part of its own expression.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">As Scrooge looked fixedly at this phenomenon,</span>
   <span id="f000522">it was a knocker again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">To say that he was not startled,</span>
   <span id="f000524">or that his blood was not conscious of a terrible sensation to which it had been a stranger from infancy,</span>
   <span id="f000525">would be untrue.</span>
   <span id="f000526">But he put his hand upon the key he had relinquished,</span>
   <span id="f000527">turned it sturdily,</span>
   <span id="f000528">walked in,</span>
   <span id="f000529">and lighted his candle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">He did pause,</span>
   <span id="f000531">with a moment’s irresolution,</span>
   <span id="f000532">before he shut the door;</span>
   <span id="f000533">and he did look cautiously behind it first,</span>
   <span id="f000534">as if he half expected to be terrified with the sight of Marley’s pigtail sticking out into the hall.</span>
   <span id="f000535">But there was nothing on the back of the door,</span>
   <span id="f000536">except the screws and nuts that held the knocker on,</span>
   <span id="f000537">so he said “Pooh,</span>
   <span id="f000538">pooh!” and closed it with a bang.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">The sound resounded through the house like thunder.</span>
   <span id="f000540">Every room above,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and every cask in the wine-merchant’s cellars below,</span>
   <span id="f000542">appeared to have a separate peal of echoes of its own.</span>
   <span id="f000543">Scrooge was not a man to be frightened by echoes.</span>
   <span id="f000544">He fastened the door,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and walked across the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000546">and up the stairs;</span>
   <span id="f000547">slowly too:</span>
   <span id="f000548">trimming his candle as he went.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">You may talk vaguely about driving a coach-and-six up a good old flight of stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000550">or through a bad young Act of Parliament;</span>
   <span id="f000551">but I mean to say you might have got a hearse up that staircase,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and taken it broadwise,</span>
   <span id="f000553">with the splinter-bar towards the wall and the door towards the balustrades:</span>
   <span id="f000554">and done it easy.</span>
   <span id="f000555">There was plenty of width for that,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and room to spare;</span>
   <span id="f000557">which is perhaps the reason why Scrooge thought he saw a locomotive hearse going on before him in the gloom.</span>
   <span id="f000558">Half-a-dozen gas-lamps out of the street wouldn’t have lighted the entry too well,</span>
   <span id="f000559">so you may suppose that it was pretty dark with Scrooge’s dip.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">Up Scrooge went,</span>
   <span id="f000561">not caring a button for that.</span>
   <span id="f000562">Darkness is cheap,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and Scrooge liked it.</span>
   <span id="f000564">But before he shut his heavy door,</span>
   <span id="f000565">he walked through his rooms to see that all was right.</span>
   <span id="f000566">He had just enough recollection of the face to desire to do that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000567">Sitting-room,</span>
   <span id="f000568">bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000569">lumber-room.</span>
   <span id="f000570">All as they should be.</span>
   <span id="f000571">Nobody under the table,</span>
   <span id="f000572">nobody under the sofa;</span>
   <span id="f000573">a small fire in the grate;</span>
   <span id="f000574">spoon and basin ready;</span>
   <span id="f000575">and the little saucepan of gruel</span>
   <span id="f000576">(Scrooge had a cold in his head)</span>
   <span id="f000577">upon the hob.</span>
   <span id="f000578">Nobody under the bed;</span>
   <span id="f000579">nobody in the closet;</span>
   <span id="f000580">nobody in his dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000581">which was hanging up in a suspicious attitude against the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000582">Lumber-room as usual.</span>
   <span id="f000583">Old fire-guard,</span>
   <span id="f000584">old shoes,</span>
   <span id="f000585">two fish-baskets,</span>
   <span id="f000586">washing-stand on three legs,</span>
   <span id="f000587">and a poker.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">Quite satisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000589">he closed his door,</span>
   <span id="f000590">and locked himself in;</span>
   <span id="f000591">double-locked himself in,</span>
   <span id="f000592">which was not his custom.</span>
   <span id="f000593">Thus secured against surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000594">he took off his cravat;</span>
   <span id="f000595">put on his dressing-gown and slippers,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and his nightcap;</span>
   <span id="f000597">and sat down before the fire to take his gruel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">It was a very low fire indeed;</span>
   <span id="f000599">nothing on such a bitter night.</span>
   <span id="f000600">He was obliged to sit close to it,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and brood over it,</span>
   <span id="f000602">before he could extract the least sensation of warmth from such a handful of fuel.</span>
   <span id="f000603">The fireplace was an old one,</span>
   <span id="f000604">built by some Dutch merchant long ago,</span>
   <span id="f000605">and paved all round with quaint Dutch tiles,</span>
   <span id="f000606">designed to illustrate the Scriptures.</span>
   <span id="f000607">There were Cains and Abels,</span>
   <span id="f000608">Pharaoh’s daughters;</span>
   <span id="f000609">Queens of Sheba,</span>
   <span id="f000610">Angelic messengers descending through the air on clouds like feather-beds,</span>
   <span id="f000611">Abrahams,</span>
   <span id="f000612">Belshazzars,</span>
   <span id="f000613">Apostles putting off to sea in butter-boats,</span>
   <span id="f000614">hundreds of figures to attract his thoughts;</span>
   <span id="f000615">and yet that face of Marley,</span>
   <span id="f000616">seven years dead,</span>
   <span id="f000617">came like the ancient Prophet’s rod,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and swallowed up the whole.</span>
   <span id="f000619">If each smooth tile had been a blank at first,</span>
   <span id="f000620">with power to shape some picture on its surface from the disjointed fragments of his thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000621">there would have been a copy of old Marley’s head on every one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">“Humbug!” said Scrooge;</span>
   <span id="f000623">and walked across the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000624">After several turns,</span>
   <span id="f000625">he sat down again.</span>
   <span id="f000626">As he threw his head back in the chair,</span>
   <span id="f000627">his glance happened to rest upon a bell,</span>
   <span id="f000628">a disused bell,</span>
   <span id="f000629">that hung in the room,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and communicated for some purpose now forgotten with a chamber in the highest story of the building.</span>
   <span id="f000631">It was with great astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and with a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000633">inexplicable dread,</span>
   <span id="f000634">that as he looked,</span>
   <span id="f000635">he saw this bell begin to swing.</span>
   <span id="f000636">It swung so softly in the outset that it scarcely made a sound;</span>
   <span id="f000637">but soon it rang out loudly,</span>
   <span id="f000638">and so did every bell in the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">This might have lasted half a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000640">or a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000641">but it seemed an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000642">The bells ceased as they had begun,</span>
   <span id="f000643">together.</span>
   <span id="f000644">They were succeeded by a clanking noise,</span>
   <span id="f000645">deep down below;</span>
   <span id="f000646">as if some person were dragging a heavy chain over the casks in the wine-merchant’s cellar.</span>
   <span id="f000647">Scrooge then remembered to have heard that ghosts in haunted houses were described as dragging chains.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">The cellar-door flew open with a booming sound,</span>
   <span id="f000649">and then he heard the noise much louder,</span>
   <span id="f000650">on the floors below;</span>
   <span id="f000651">then coming up the stairs;</span>
   <span id="f000652">then coming straight towards his door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">“It’s humbug still!” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000654">“I won’t believe it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">His colour changed though,</span>
   <span id="f000656">when,</span>
   <span id="f000657">without a pause,</span>
   <span id="f000658">it came on through the heavy door,</span>
   <span id="f000659">and passed into the room before his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000660">Upon its coming in,</span>
   <span id="f000661">the dying flame leaped up,</span>
   <span id="f000662">as though it cried,</span>
   <span id="f000663">“I know him;</span>
   <span id="f000664">Marley’s Ghost!” and fell again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">The same face:</span>
   <span id="f000666">the very same.</span>
   <span id="f000667">Marley in his pigtail,</span>
   <span id="f000668">usual waistcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000669">tights and boots;</span>
   <span id="f000670">the tassels on the latter bristling,</span>
   <span id="f000671">like his pigtail,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and his coat-skirts,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and the hair upon his head.</span>
   <span id="f000674">The chain he drew was clasped about his middle.</span>
   <span id="f000675">It was long,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and wound about him like a tail;</span>
   <span id="f000677">and it was made</span>
   <span id="f000678">(for Scrooge observed it closely)</span>
   <span id="f000679">of cash-boxes,</span>
   <span id="f000680">keys,</span>
   <span id="f000681">padlocks,</span>
   <span id="f000682">ledgers,</span>
   <span id="f000683">deeds,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and heavy purses wrought in steel.</span>
   <span id="f000685">His body was transparent;</span>
   <span id="f000686">so that Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000687">observing him,</span>
   <span id="f000688">and looking through his waistcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000689">could see the two buttons on his coat behind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">Scrooge had often heard it said that Marley had no bowels,</span>
   <span id="f000691">but he had never believed it until now.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">No,</span>
   <span id="f000693">nor did he believe it even now.</span>
   <span id="f000694">Though he looked the phantom through and through,</span>
   <span id="f000695">and saw it standing before him;</span>
   <span id="f000696">though he felt the chilling influence of its death-cold eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000697">and marked the very texture of the folded kerchief bound about its head and chin,</span>
   <span id="f000698">which wrapper he had not observed before;</span>
   <span id="f000699">he was still incredulous,</span>
   <span id="f000700">and fought against his senses.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">“How now!” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000702">caustic and cold as ever.</span>
   <span id="f000703">“What do you want with me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000704">“Much!” – Marley’s voice,</span>
   <span id="f000705">no doubt about it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000706">“Who are you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">“Ask me who I was.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000708">“Who were you then?” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000709">raising his voice.</span>
   <span id="f000710">“You’re particular,</span>
   <span id="f000711">for a shade.” He was going to say “to a shade,” but substituted this,</span>
   <span id="f000712">as more appropriate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“In life I was your partner,</span>
   <span id="f000714">Jacob Marley.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“Can you – can you sit down?” asked Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000716">looking doubtfully at him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">“I can.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000718">“Do it,</span>
   <span id="f000719">then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000720">Scrooge asked the question,</span>
   <span id="f000721">because he didn’t know whether a ghost so transparent might find himself in a condition to take a chair;</span>
   <span id="f000722">and felt that in the event of its being impossible,</span>
   <span id="f000723">it might involve the necessity of an embarrassing explanation.</span>
   <span id="f000724">But the ghost sat down on the opposite side of the fireplace,</span>
   <span id="f000725">as if he were quite used to it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000726">“You don’t believe in me,” observed the Ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000727">“I don’t,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">“What evidence would you have of my reality beyond that of your senses?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">“I don’t know,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">“Why do you doubt your senses?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">“Because,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000732">“a little thing affects them.</span>
   <span id="f000733">A slight disorder of the stomach makes them cheats.</span>
   <span id="f000734">You may be an undigested bit of beef,</span>
   <span id="f000735">a blot of mustard,</span>
   <span id="f000736">a crumb of cheese,</span>
   <span id="f000737">a fragment of an underdone potato.</span>
   <span id="f000738">There’s more of gravy than of grave about you,</span>
   <span id="f000739">whatever you are!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">Scrooge was not much in the habit of cracking jokes,</span>
   <span id="f000741">nor did he feel,</span>
   <span id="f000742">in his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000743">by any means waggish then.</span>
   <span id="f000744">The truth is,</span>
   <span id="f000745">that he tried to be smart,</span>
   <span id="f000746">as a means of distracting his own attention,</span>
   <span id="f000747">and keeping down his terror;</span>
   <span id="f000748">for the spectre’s voice disturbed the very marrow in his bones.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">To sit,</span>
   <span id="f000750">staring at those fixed glazed eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000751">in silence for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000752">would play,</span>
   <span id="f000753">Scrooge felt,</span>
   <span id="f000754">the very deuce with him.</span>
   <span id="f000755">There was something very awful,</span>
   <span id="f000756">too,</span>
   <span id="f000757">in the spectre’s being provided with an infernal atmosphere of its own.</span>
   <span id="f000758">Scrooge could not feel it himself,</span>
   <span id="f000759">but this was clearly the case;</span>
   <span id="f000760">for though the Ghost sat perfectly motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000761">its hair,</span>
   <span id="f000762">and skirts,</span>
   <span id="f000763">and tassels,</span>
   <span id="f000764">were still agitated as by the hot vapour from an oven.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">“You see this toothpick?” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000766">returning quickly to the charge,</span>
   <span id="f000767">for the reason just assigned;</span>
   <span id="f000768">and wishing,</span>
   <span id="f000769">though it were only for a second,</span>
   <span id="f000770">to divert the vision’s stony gaze from himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000771">“I do,” replied the Ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000772">“You are not looking at it,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000773">“But I see it,” said the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000774">“notwithstanding.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">“Well!” returned Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000776">“I have but to swallow this,</span>
   <span id="f000777">and be for the rest of my days persecuted by a legion of goblins,</span>
   <span id="f000778">all of my own creation.</span>
   <span id="f000779">Humbug,</span>
   <span id="f000780">I tell you!</span>
   <span id="f000781">humbug!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000782">At this the spirit raised a frightful cry,</span>
   <span id="f000783">and shook its chain with such a dismal and appalling noise,</span>
   <span id="f000784">that Scrooge held on tight to his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000785">to save himself from falling in a swoon.</span>
   <span id="f000786">But how much greater was his horror,</span>
   <span id="f000787">when the phantom taking off the bandage round its head,</span>
   <span id="f000788">as if it were too warm to wear indoors,</span>
   <span id="f000789">its lower jaw dropped down upon its breast!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000790">Scrooge fell upon his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and clasped his hands before his face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">“Mercy!” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000793">“Dreadful apparition,</span>
   <span id="f000794">why do you trouble me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000795">“Man of the worldly mind!” replied the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000796">“do you believe in me or not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">“I do,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000798">“I must.</span>
   <span id="f000799">But why do spirits walk the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000800">and why do they come to me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000801">“It is required of every man,” the Ghost returned,</span>
   <span id="f000802">“that the spirit within him should walk abroad among his fellowmen,</span>
   <span id="f000803">and travel far and wide;</span>
   <span id="f000804">and if that spirit goes not forth in life,</span>
   <span id="f000805">it is condemned to do so after death.</span>
   <span id="f000806">It is doomed to wander through the world – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000807">woe is me!</span>
   <span id="f000808">– and witness what it cannot share,</span>
   <span id="f000809">but might have shared on earth,</span>
   <span id="f000810">and turned to happiness!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000811">Again the spectre raised a cry,</span>
   <span id="f000812">and shook its chain and wrung its shadowy hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">“You are fettered,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000814">trembling.</span>
   <span id="f000815">“Tell me why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000816">“I wear the chain I forged in life,” replied the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000817">“I made it link by link,</span>
   <span id="f000818">and yard by yard;</span>
   <span id="f000819">I girded it on of my own free will,</span>
   <span id="f000820">and of my own free will I wore it.</span>
   <span id="f000821">Is its pattern strange to you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">Scrooge trembled more and more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000823">“Or would you know,” pursued the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000824">“the weight and length of the strong coil you bear yourself?</span>
   <span id="f000825">It was full as heavy and as long as this,</span>
   <span id="f000826">seven Christmas Eves ago.</span>
   <span id="f000827">You have laboured on it,</span>
   <span id="f000828">since.</span>
   <span id="f000829">It is a ponderous chain!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">Scrooge glanced about him on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000831">in the expectation of finding himself surrounded by some fifty or sixty fathoms of iron cable:</span>
   <span id="f000832">but he could see nothing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000833">“Jacob,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000834">imploringly.</span>
   <span id="f000835">“Old Jacob Marley,</span>
   <span id="f000836">tell me more.</span>
   <span id="f000837">Speak comfort to me,</span>
   <span id="f000838">Jacob!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">“I have none to give,” the Ghost replied.</span>
   <span id="f000840">“It comes from other regions,</span>
   <span id="f000841">Ebenezer Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000842">and is conveyed by other ministers,</span>
   <span id="f000843">to other kinds of men.</span>
   <span id="f000844">Nor can I tell you what I would.</span>
   <span id="f000845">A very little more is all permitted to me.</span>
   <span id="f000846">I cannot rest,</span>
   <span id="f000847">I cannot stay,</span>
   <span id="f000848">I cannot linger anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000849">My spirit never walked beyond our counting-house – mark me!</span>
   <span id="f000850">– in life my spirit never roved beyond the narrow limits of our money-changing hole;</span>
   <span id="f000851">and weary journeys lie before me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">It was a habit with Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000853">whenever he became thoughtful,</span>
   <span id="f000854">to put his hands in his breeches pockets.</span>
   <span id="f000855">Pondering on what the Ghost had said,</span>
   <span id="f000856">he did so now,</span>
   <span id="f000857">but without lifting up his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000858">or getting off his knees.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000859">“You must have been very slow about it,</span>
   <span id="f000860">Jacob,” Scrooge observed,</span>
   <span id="f000861">in a business-like manner,</span>
   <span id="f000862">though with humility and deference.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">“Slow!” the Ghost repeated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000864">“Seven years dead,” mused Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000865">“And travelling all the time!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000866">“The whole time,” said the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000867">“No rest,</span>
   <span id="f000868">no peace.</span>
   <span id="f000869">Incessant torture of remorse.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000870">“You travel fast?” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000871">“On the wings of the wind,” replied the Ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">“You might have got over a great quantity of ground in seven years,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000873">The Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000874">on hearing this,</span>
   <span id="f000875">set up another cry,</span>
   <span id="f000876">and clanked its chain so hideously in the dead silence of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000877">that the Ward would have been justified in indicting it for a nuisance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000878">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000879">captive,</span>
   <span id="f000880">bound,</span>
   <span id="f000881">and double-ironed,” cried the phantom,</span>
   <span id="f000882">“not to know,</span>
   <span id="f000883">that ages of incessant labour by immortal creatures,</span>
   <span id="f000884">for this earth must pass into eternity before the good of which it is susceptible is all developed.</span>
   <span id="f000885">Not to know that any Christian spirit working kindly in its little sphere,</span>
   <span id="f000886">whatever it may be,</span>
   <span id="f000887">will find its mortal life too short for its vast means of usefulness.</span>
   <span id="f000888">Not to know that no space of regret can make amends for one life’s opportunity misused!</span>
   <span id="f000889">Yet such was I!</span>
   <span id="f000890">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000891">such was I!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000892">“But you were always a good man of business,</span>
   <span id="f000893">Jacob,” faltered Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000894">who now began to apply this to himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000895">“Business!” cried the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000896">wringing its hands again.</span>
   <span id="f000897">“Mankind was my business.</span>
   <span id="f000898">The common welfare was my business;</span>
   <span id="f000899">charity,</span>
   <span id="f000900">mercy,</span>
   <span id="f000901">forbearance,</span>
   <span id="f000902">and benevolence,</span>
   <span id="f000903">were,</span>
   <span id="f000904">all,</span>
   <span id="f000905">my business.</span>
   <span id="f000906">The dealings of my trade were but a drop of water in the comprehensive ocean of my business!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000907">It held up its chain at arm’s length,</span>
   <span id="f000908">as if that were the cause of all its unavailing grief,</span>
   <span id="f000909">and flung it heavily upon the ground again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000910">“At this time of the rolling year,” the spectre said,</span>
   <span id="f000911">“I suffer most.</span>
   <span id="f000912">Why did I walk through crowds of fellow-beings with my eyes turned down,</span>
   <span id="f000913">and never raise them to that blessed Star which led the Wise Men to a poor abode!</span>
   <span id="f000914">Were there no poor homes to which its light would have conducted me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000915">Scrooge was very much dismayed to hear the spectre going on at this rate,</span>
   <span id="f000916">and began to quake exceedingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">“Hear me!” cried the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000918">“My time is nearly gone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000919">“I will,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000920">“But don’t be hard upon me!</span>
   <span id="f000921">Don’t be flowery,</span>
   <span id="f000922">Jacob!</span>
   <span id="f000923">Pray!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000924">“How it is that I appear before you in a shape that you can see,</span>
   <span id="f000925">I may not tell.</span>
   <span id="f000926">I have sat invisible beside you many and many a day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000927">It was not an agreeable idea.</span>
   <span id="f000928">Scrooge shivered,</span>
   <span id="f000929">and wiped the perspiration from his brow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000930">“That is no light part of my penance,” pursued the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000931">“I am here to-night to warn you,</span>
   <span id="f000932">that you have yet a chance and hope of escaping my fate.</span>
   <span id="f000933">A chance and hope of my procuring,</span>
   <span id="f000934">Ebenezer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000935">“You were always a good friend to me,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000936">“Thank’ee!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">“You will be haunted,” resumed the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000938">“by Three Spirits.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">Scrooge’s countenance fell almost as low as the Ghost’s had done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000940">“Is that the chance and hope you mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000941">Jacob?” he demanded,</span>
   <span id="f000942">in a faltering voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000943">“It is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000944">“I – I think I’d rather not,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000945">“Without their visits,” said the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000946">“you cannot hope to shun the path I tread.</span>
   <span id="f000947">Expect the first to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000948">when the bell tolls One.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000949">“Couldn’t I take ’em all at once,</span>
   <span id="f000950">and have it over,</span>
   <span id="f000951">Jacob?” hinted Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000952">“Expect the second on the next night at the same hour.</span>
   <span id="f000953">The third upon the next night when the last stroke of Twelve has ceased to vibrate.</span>
   <span id="f000954">Look to see me no more;</span>
   <span id="f000955">and look that,</span>
   <span id="f000956">for your own sake,</span>
   <span id="f000957">you remember what has passed between us!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000958">When it had said these words,</span>
   <span id="f000959">the spectre took its wrapper from the table,</span>
   <span id="f000960">and bound it round its head,</span>
   <span id="f000961">as before.</span>
   <span id="f000962">Scrooge knew this,</span>
   <span id="f000963">by the smart sound its teeth made,</span>
   <span id="f000964">when the jaws were brought together by the bandage.</span>
   <span id="f000965">He ventured to raise his eyes again,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and found his supernatural visitor confronting him in an erect attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000967">with its chain wound over and about its arm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000968">The apparition walked backward from him;</span>
   <span id="f000969">and at every step it took,</span>
   <span id="f000970">the window raised itself a little,</span>
   <span id="f000971">so that when the spectre reached it,</span>
   <span id="f000972">it was wide open.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000973">It beckoned Scrooge to approach,</span>
   <span id="f000974">which he did.</span>
   <span id="f000975">When they were within two paces of each other,</span>
   <span id="f000976">Marley’s Ghost held up its hand,</span>
   <span id="f000977">warning him to come no nearer.</span>
   <span id="f000978">Scrooge stopped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000979">Not so much in obedience,</span>
   <span id="f000980">as in surprise and fear:</span>
   <span id="f000981">for on the raising of the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000982">he became sensible of confused noises in the air;</span>
   <span id="f000983">incoherent sounds of lamentation and regret;</span>
   <span id="f000984">wailings inexpressibly sorrowful and self-accusatory.</span>
   <span id="f000985">The spectre,</span>
   <span id="f000986">after listening for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000987">joined in the mournful dirge;</span>
   <span id="f000988">and floated out upon the bleak,</span>
   <span id="f000989">dark night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000990">Scrooge followed to the window:</span>
   <span id="f000991">desperate in his curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000992">He looked out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000993">The air was filled with phantoms,</span>
   <span id="f000994">wandering hither and thither in restless haste,</span>
   <span id="f000995">and moaning as they went.</span>
   <span id="f000996">Every one of them wore chains like Marley’s Ghost;</span>
   <span id="f000997">some few</span>
   <span id="f000998">(they might be guilty governments)</span>
   <span id="f000999">were linked together;</span>
   <span id="f001000">none were free.</span>
   <span id="f001001">Many had been personally known to Scrooge in their lives.</span>
   <span id="f001002">He had been quite familiar with one old ghost,</span>
   <span id="f001003">in a white waistcoat,</span>
   <span id="f001004">with a monstrous iron safe attached to its ankle,</span>
   <span id="f001005">who cried piteously at being unable to assist a wretched woman with an infant,</span>
   <span id="f001006">whom it saw below,</span>
   <span id="f001007">upon a door-step.</span>
   <span id="f001008">The misery with them all was,</span>
   <span id="f001009">clearly,</span>
   <span id="f001010">that they sought to interfere,</span>
   <span id="f001011">for good,</span>
   <span id="f001012">in human matters,</span>
   <span id="f001013">and had lost the power for ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001014">Whether these creatures faded into mist,</span>
   <span id="f001015">or mist enshrouded them,</span>
   <span id="f001016">he could not tell.</span>
   <span id="f001017">But they and their spirit voices faded together;</span>
   <span id="f001018">and the night became as it had been when he walked home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001019">Scrooge closed the window,</span>
   <span id="f001020">and examined the door by which the Ghost had entered.</span>
   <span id="f001021">It was double-locked,</span>
   <span id="f001022">as he had locked it with his own hands,</span>
   <span id="f001023">and the bolts were undisturbed.</span>
   <span id="f001024">He tried to say “Humbug!” but stopped at the first syllable.</span>
   <span id="f001025">And being,</span>
   <span id="f001026">from the emotion he had undergone,</span>
   <span id="f001027">or the fatigues of the day,</span>
   <span id="f001028">or his glimpse of the Invisible World,</span>
   <span id="f001029">or the dull conversation of the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f001030">or the lateness of the hour,</span>
   <span id="f001031">much in need of repose;</span>
   <span id="f001032">went straight to bed,</span>
   <span id="f001033">without undressing,</span>
   <span id="f001034">and fell asleep upon the instant.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

