<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter II<br />The First Of The Three Spirits</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">When Scrooge awoke,</span>
   <span id="f000003">it was so dark,</span>
   <span id="f000004">that looking out of bed,</span>
   <span id="f000005">he could scarcely distinguish the transparent window from the opaque walls of his chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000006">He was endeavouring to pierce the darkness with his ferret eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000007">when the chimes of a neighbouring church struck the four quarters.</span>
   <span id="f000008">So he listened for the hour.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000009">To his great astonishment the heavy bell went on from six to seven,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and from seven to eight,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and regularly up to twelve;</span>
   <span id="f000012">then stopped.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Twelve!</span>
   <span id="f000014">It was past two when he went to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000015">The clock was wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000016">An icicle must have got into the works.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Twelve!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">He touched the spring of his repeater,</span>
   <span id="f000019">to correct this most preposterous clock.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Its rapid little pulse beat twelve:</span>
   <span id="f000021">and stopped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000023">it isn’t possible,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000024">“that I can have slept through a whole day and far into another night.</span>
   <span id="f000025">It isn’t possible that anything has happened to the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and this is twelve at noon!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">The idea being an alarming one,</span>
   <span id="f000028">he scrambled out of bed,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and groped his way to the window.</span>
   <span id="f000030">He was obliged to rub the frost off with the sleeve of his dressing-gown before he could see anything;</span>
   <span id="f000031">and could see very little then.</span>
   <span id="f000032">All he could make out was,</span>
   <span id="f000033">that it was still very foggy and extremely cold,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and that there was no noise of people running to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and making a great stir,</span>
   <span id="f000036">as there unquestionably would have been if night had beaten off bright day,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and taken possession of the world.</span>
   <span id="f000038">This was a great relief,</span>
   <span id="f000039">because “three days after sight of this First of Exchange pay to Mr.&#160;Ebenezer Scrooge or his order,” and so forth,</span>
   <span id="f000040">would have become a mere United States’ security if there were no days to count by.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">Scrooge went to bed again,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and thought,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and thought,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and thought it over and over and over,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and could make nothing of it.</span>
   <span id="f000046">The more he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000047">the more perplexed he was;</span>
   <span id="f000048">and the more he endeavoured not to think,</span>
   <span id="f000049">the more he thought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">Marley’s Ghost bothered him exceedingly.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Every time he resolved within himself,</span>
   <span id="f000052">after mature inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000053">that it was all a dream,</span>
   <span id="f000054">his mind flew back again,</span>
   <span id="f000055">like a strong spring released,</span>
   <span id="f000056">to its first position,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and presented the same problem to be worked all through,</span>
   <span id="f000058">“Was it a dream or not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">Scrooge lay in this state until the chime had gone three quarters more,</span>
   <span id="f000060">when he remembered,</span>
   <span id="f000061">on a sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000062">that the Ghost had warned him of a visitation when the bell tolled one.</span>
   <span id="f000063">He resolved to lie awake until the hour was passed;</span>
   <span id="f000064">and,</span>
   <span id="f000065">considering that he could no more go to sleep than go to Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000066">this was perhaps the wisest resolution in his power.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">The quarter was so long,</span>
   <span id="f000068">that he was more than once convinced he must have sunk into a doze unconsciously,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and missed the clock.</span>
   <span id="f000070">At length it broke upon his listening ear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“Ding,</span>
   <span id="f000072">dong!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">“A quarter past,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000074">counting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“Ding,</span>
   <span id="f000076">dong!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">“Half-past!” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“Ding,</span>
   <span id="f000079">dong!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“A quarter to it,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“Ding,</span>
   <span id="f000082">dong!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">“The hour itself,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000084">triumphantly,</span>
   <span id="f000085">“and nothing else!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">He spoke before the hour bell sounded,</span>
   <span id="f000087">which it now did with a deep,</span>
   <span id="f000088">dull,</span>
   <span id="f000089">hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000090">melancholy ONE.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Light flashed up in the room upon the instant,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and the curtains of his bed were drawn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">The curtains of his bed were drawn aside,</span>
   <span id="f000094">I tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000095">by a hand.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Not the curtains at his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000097">nor the curtains at his back,</span>
   <span id="f000098">but those to which his face was addressed.</span>
   <span id="f000099">The curtains of his bed were drawn aside;</span>
   <span id="f000100">and Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000101">starting up into a half-recumbent attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000102">found himself face to face with the unearthly visitor who drew them:</span>
   <span id="f000103">as close to it as I am now to you,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and I am standing in the spirit at your elbow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">It was a strange figure – like a child:</span>
   <span id="f000106">yet not so like a child as like an old man,</span>
   <span id="f000107">viewed through some supernatural medium,</span>
   <span id="f000108">which gave him the appearance of having receded from the view,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and being diminished to a child’s proportions.</span>
   <span id="f000110">Its hair,</span>
   <span id="f000111">which hung about its neck and down its back,</span>
   <span id="f000112">was white as if with age;</span>
   <span id="f000113">and yet the face had not a wrinkle in it,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and the tenderest bloom was on the skin.</span>
   <span id="f000115">The arms were very long and muscular;</span>
   <span id="f000116">the hands the same,</span>
   <span id="f000117">as if its hold were of uncommon strength.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Its legs and feet,</span>
   <span id="f000119">most delicately formed,</span>
   <span id="f000120">were,</span>
   <span id="f000121">like those upper members,</span>
   <span id="f000122">bare.</span>
   <span id="f000123">It wore a tunic of the purest white;</span>
   <span id="f000124">and round its waist was bound a lustrous belt,</span>
   <span id="f000125">the sheen of which was beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000126">It held a branch of fresh green holly in its hand;</span>
   <span id="f000127">and,</span>
   <span id="f000128">in singular contradiction of that wintry emblem,</span>
   <span id="f000129">had its dress trimmed with summer flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000130">But the strangest thing about it was,</span>
   <span id="f000131">that from the crown of its head there sprung a bright clear jet of light,</span>
   <span id="f000132">by which all this was visible;</span>
   <span id="f000133">and which was doubtless the occasion of its using,</span>
   <span id="f000134">in its duller moments,</span>
   <span id="f000135">a great extinguisher for a cap,</span>
   <span id="f000136">which it now held under its arm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">Even this,</span>
   <span id="f000138">though,</span>
   <span id="f000139">when Scrooge looked at it with increasing steadiness,</span>
   <span id="f000140">was not its strangest quality.</span>
   <span id="f000141">For as its belt sparkled and glittered now in one part and now in another,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and what was light one instant,</span>
   <span id="f000143">at another time was dark,</span>
   <span id="f000144">so the figure itself fluctuated in its distinctness:</span>
   <span id="f000145">being now a thing with one arm,</span>
   <span id="f000146">now with one leg,</span>
   <span id="f000147">now with twenty legs,</span>
   <span id="f000148">now a pair of legs without a head,</span>
   <span id="f000149">now a head without a body:</span>
   <span id="f000150">of which dissolving parts,</span>
   <span id="f000151">no outline would be visible in the dense gloom wherein they melted away.</span>
   <span id="f000152">And in the very wonder of this,</span>
   <span id="f000153">it would be itself again;</span>
   <span id="f000154">distinct and clear as ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“Are you the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000156">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000157">whose coming was foretold to me?” asked Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">“I am!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">The voice was soft and gentle.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Singularly low,</span>
   <span id="f000161">as if instead of being so close beside him,</span>
   <span id="f000162">it were at a distance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“Who,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and what are you?” Scrooge demanded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">“I am the Ghost of Christmas Past.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Long Past?” inquired Scrooge:</span>
   <span id="f000167">observant of its dwarfish stature.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Your past.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">Perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Scrooge could not have told anybody why,</span>
   <span id="f000172">if anybody could have asked him;</span>
   <span id="f000173">but he had a special desire to see the Spirit in his cap;</span>
   <span id="f000174">and begged him to be covered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">“What!” exclaimed the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000176">“would you so soon put out,</span>
   <span id="f000177">with worldly hands,</span>
   <span id="f000178">the light I give?</span>
   <span id="f000179">Is it not enough that you are one of those whose passions made this cap,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and force me through whole trains of years to wear it low upon my brow!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">Scrooge reverently disclaimed all intention to offend or any knowledge of having wilfully “bonneted” the Spirit at any period of his life.</span>
   <span id="f000182">He then made bold to inquire what business brought him there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">“Your welfare!” said the Ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">Scrooge expressed himself much obliged,</span>
   <span id="f000185">but could not help thinking that a night of unbroken rest would have been more conducive to that end.</span>
   <span id="f000186">The Spirit must have heard him thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000187">for it said immediately:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“Your reclamation,</span>
   <span id="f000189">then.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Take heed!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">It put out its strong hand as it spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and clasped him gently by the arm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“Rise!</span>
   <span id="f000194">and walk with me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">It would have been in vain for Scrooge to plead that the weather and the hour were not adapted to pedestrian purposes;</span>
   <span id="f000196">that bed was warm,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and the thermometer a long way below freezing;</span>
   <span id="f000198">that he was clad but lightly in his slippers,</span>
   <span id="f000199">dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and nightcap;</span>
   <span id="f000201">and that he had a cold upon him at that time.</span>
   <span id="f000202">The grasp,</span>
   <span id="f000203">though gentle as a woman’s hand,</span>
   <span id="f000204">was not to be resisted.</span>
   <span id="f000205">He rose:</span>
   <span id="f000206">but finding that the Spirit made towards the window,</span>
   <span id="f000207">clasped his robe in supplication.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“I am a mortal,” Scrooge remonstrated,</span>
   <span id="f000209">“and liable to fall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“Bear but a touch of my hand there,” said the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000211">laying it upon his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000212">“and you shall be upheld in more than this!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">As the words were spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000214">they passed through the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and stood upon an open country road,</span>
   <span id="f000216">with fields on either hand.</span>
   <span id="f000217">The city had entirely vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Not a vestige of it was to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000219">The darkness and the mist had vanished with it,</span>
   <span id="f000220">for it was a clear,</span>
   <span id="f000221">cold,</span>
   <span id="f000222">winter day,</span>
   <span id="f000223">with snow upon the ground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“Good Heaven!” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000225">clasping his hands together,</span>
   <span id="f000226">as he looked about him.</span>
   <span id="f000227">“I was bred in this place.</span>
   <span id="f000228">I was a boy here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">The Spirit gazed upon him mildly.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Its gentle touch,</span>
   <span id="f000231">though it had been light and instantaneous,</span>
   <span id="f000232">appeared still present to the old man’s sense of feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000233">He was conscious of a thousand odours floating in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000234">each one connected with a thousand thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and hopes,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and joys,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and cares long,</span>
   <span id="f000238">long,</span>
   <span id="f000239">forgotten!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">“Your lip is trembling,” said the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000241">“And what is that upon your cheek?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">Scrooge muttered,</span>
   <span id="f000243">with an unusual catching in his voice,</span>
   <span id="f000244">that it was a pimple;</span>
   <span id="f000245">and begged the Ghost to lead him where he would.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“You recollect the way?” inquired the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“Remember it!” cried Scrooge with fervour;</span>
   <span id="f000248">“I could walk it blindfold.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">“Strange to have forgotten it for so many years!” observed the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000250">“Let us go on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">They walked along the road,</span>
   <span id="f000252">Scrooge recognising every gate,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and post,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and tree;</span>
   <span id="f000255">until a little market-town appeared in the distance,</span>
   <span id="f000256">with its bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000257">its church,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and winding river.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Some shaggy ponies now were seen trotting towards them with boys upon their backs,</span>
   <span id="f000260">who called to other boys in country gigs and carts,</span>
   <span id="f000261">driven by farmers.</span>
   <span id="f000262">All these boys were in great spirits,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and shouted to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000264">until the broad fields were so full of merry music,</span>
   <span id="f000265">that the crisp air laughed to hear it!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“These are but shadows of the things that have been,” said the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000267">“They have no consciousness of us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">The jocund travellers came on;</span>
   <span id="f000269">and as they came,</span>
   <span id="f000270">Scrooge knew and named them every one.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Why was he rejoiced beyond all bounds to see them!</span>
   <span id="f000272">Why did his cold eye glisten,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and his heart leap up as they went past!</span>
   <span id="f000274">Why was he filled with gladness when he heard them give each other Merry Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000275">as they parted at cross-roads and bye-ways,</span>
   <span id="f000276">for their several homes!</span>
   <span id="f000277">What was merry Christmas to Scrooge?</span>
   <span id="f000278">Out upon merry Christmas!</span>
   <span id="f000279">What good had it ever done to him?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“The school is not quite deserted,” said the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000281">“A solitary child,</span>
   <span id="f000282">neglected by his friends,</span>
   <span id="f000283">is left there still.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">Scrooge said he knew it.</span>
   <span id="f000285">And he sobbed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">They left the high-road,</span>
   <span id="f000287">by a well-remembered lane,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and soon approached a mansion of dull red brick,</span>
   <span id="f000289">with a little weathercock-surmounted cupola,</span>
   <span id="f000290">on the roof,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and a bell hanging in it.</span>
   <span id="f000292">It was a large house,</span>
   <span id="f000293">but one of broken fortunes;</span>
   <span id="f000294">for the spacious offices were little used,</span>
   <span id="f000295">their walls were damp and mossy,</span>
   <span id="f000296">their windows broken,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and their gates decayed.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Fowls clucked and strutted in the stables;</span>
   <span id="f000299">and the coach-houses and sheds were over-run with grass.</span>
   <span id="f000300">Nor was it more retentive of its ancient state,</span>
   <span id="f000301">within;</span>
   <span id="f000302">for entering the dreary hall,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and glancing through the open doors of many rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000304">they found them poorly furnished,</span>
   <span id="f000305">cold,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and vast.</span>
   <span id="f000307">There was an earthy savour in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000308">a chilly bareness in the place,</span>
   <span id="f000309">which associated itself somehow with too much getting up by candle-light,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and not too much to eat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">They went,</span>
   <span id="f000312">the Ghost and Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000313">across the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000314">to a door at the back of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000315">It opened before them,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and disclosed a long,</span>
   <span id="f000317">bare,</span>
   <span id="f000318">melancholy room,</span>
   <span id="f000319">made barer still by lines of plain deal forms and desks.</span>
   <span id="f000320">At one of these a lonely boy was reading near a feeble fire;</span>
   <span id="f000321">and Scrooge sat down upon a form,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and wept to see his poor forgotten self as he used to be.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">Not a latent echo in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000324">not a squeak and scuffle from the mice behind the panelling,</span>
   <span id="f000325">not a drip from the half-thawed water-spout in the dull yard behind,</span>
   <span id="f000326">not a sigh among the leafless boughs of one despondent poplar,</span>
   <span id="f000327">not the idle swinging of an empty store-house door,</span>
   <span id="f000328">no,</span>
   <span id="f000329">not a clicking in the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000330">but fell upon the heart of Scrooge with a softening influence,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and gave a freer passage to his tears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">The Spirit touched him on the arm,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and pointed to his younger self,</span>
   <span id="f000334">intent upon his reading.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Suddenly a man,</span>
   <span id="f000336">in foreign garments:</span>
   <span id="f000337">wonderfully real and distinct to look at:</span>
   <span id="f000338">stood outside the window,</span>
   <span id="f000339">with an axe stuck in his belt,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and leading by the bridle an ass laden with wood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000342">it’s Ali Baba!” Scrooge exclaimed in ecstasy.</span>
   <span id="f000343">“It’s dear old honest Ali Baba!</span>
   <span id="f000344">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000345">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000346">I know!</span>
   <span id="f000347">One Christmas time,</span>
   <span id="f000348">when yonder solitary child was left here all alone,</span>
   <span id="f000349">he did come,</span>
   <span id="f000350">for the first time,</span>
   <span id="f000351">just like that.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Poor boy!</span>
   <span id="f000353">And Valentine,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000354">“and his wild brother,</span>
   <span id="f000355">Orson;</span>
   <span id="f000356">there they go!</span>
   <span id="f000357">And what’s his name,</span>
   <span id="f000358">who was put down in his drawers,</span>
   <span id="f000359">asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000360">at the Gate of Damascus;</span>
   <span id="f000361">don’t you see him!</span>
   <span id="f000362">And the Sultan’s Groom turned upside down by the Genii;</span>
   <span id="f000363">there he is upon his head!</span>
   <span id="f000364">Serve him right.</span>
   <span id="f000365">I’m glad of it.</span>
   <span id="f000366">What business had he to be married to the Princess!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">To hear Scrooge expending all the earnestness of his nature on such subjects,</span>
   <span id="f000368">in a most extraordinary voice between laughing and crying;</span>
   <span id="f000369">and to see his heightened and excited face;</span>
   <span id="f000370">would have been a surprise to his business friends in the city,</span>
   <span id="f000371">indeed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">“There’s the Parrot!” cried Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000373">“Green body and yellow tail,</span>
   <span id="f000374">with a thing like a lettuce growing out of the top of his head;</span>
   <span id="f000375">there he is!</span>
   <span id="f000376">Poor Robin Crusoe,</span>
   <span id="f000377">he called him,</span>
   <span id="f000378">when he came home again after sailing round the island.</span>
   <span id="f000379">’Poor Robin Crusoe,</span>
   <span id="f000380">where have you been,</span>
   <span id="f000381">Robin Crusoe?’ The man thought he was dreaming,</span>
   <span id="f000382">but he wasn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000383">It was the Parrot,</span>
   <span id="f000384">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000385">There goes Friday,</span>
   <span id="f000386">running for his life to the little creek!</span>
   <span id="f000387">Halloa!</span>
   <span id="f000388">Hoop!</span>
   <span id="f000389">Halloo!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000391">with a rapidity of transition very foreign to his usual character,</span>
   <span id="f000392">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000393">in pity for his former self,</span>
   <span id="f000394">“Poor boy!” and cried again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">“I wish,” Scrooge muttered,</span>
   <span id="f000396">putting his hand in his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and looking about him,</span>
   <span id="f000398">after drying his eyes with his cuff:</span>
   <span id="f000399">“but it’s too late now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">“What is the matter?” asked the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“Nothing,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000402">“Nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000403">There was a boy singing a Christmas Carol at my door last night.</span>
   <span id="f000404">I should like to have given him something:</span>
   <span id="f000405">that’s all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">The Ghost smiled thoughtfully,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and waved its hand:</span>
   <span id="f000408">saying as it did so,</span>
   <span id="f000409">“Let us see another Christmas!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">Scrooge’s former self grew larger at the words,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and the room became a little darker and more dirty.</span>
   <span id="f000412">The panels shrunk,</span>
   <span id="f000413">the windows cracked;</span>
   <span id="f000414">fragments of plaster fell out of the ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and the naked laths were shown instead;</span>
   <span id="f000416">but how all this was brought about,</span>
   <span id="f000417">Scrooge knew no more than you do.</span>
   <span id="f000418">He only knew that it was quite correct;</span>
   <span id="f000419">that everything had happened so;</span>
   <span id="f000420">that there he was,</span>
   <span id="f000421">alone again,</span>
   <span id="f000422">when all the other boys had gone home for the jolly holidays.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">He was not reading now,</span>
   <span id="f000424">but walking up and down despairingly.</span>
   <span id="f000425">Scrooge looked at the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and with a mournful shaking of his head,</span>
   <span id="f000427">glanced anxiously towards the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">It opened;</span>
   <span id="f000429">and a little girl,</span>
   <span id="f000430">much younger than the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000431">came darting in,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and putting her arms about his neck,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and often kissing him,</span>
   <span id="f000434">addressed him as her “Dear,</span>
   <span id="f000435">dear brother.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">“I have come to bring you home,</span>
   <span id="f000437">dear brother!” said the child,</span>
   <span id="f000438">clapping her tiny hands,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and bending down to laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000440">“To bring you home,</span>
   <span id="f000441">home,</span>
   <span id="f000442">home!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“Home,</span>
   <span id="f000444">little Fan?” returned the boy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“Yes!” said the child,</span>
   <span id="f000446">brimful of glee.</span>
   <span id="f000447">“Home,</span>
   <span id="f000448">for good and all.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Home,</span>
   <span id="f000450">for ever and ever.</span>
   <span id="f000451">Father is so much kinder than he used to be,</span>
   <span id="f000452">that home’s like Heaven!</span>
   <span id="f000453">He spoke so gently to me one dear night when I was going to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000454">that I was not afraid to ask him once more if you might come home;</span>
   <span id="f000455">and he said Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000456">you should;</span>
   <span id="f000457">and sent me in a coach to bring you.</span>
   <span id="f000458">And you’re to be a man!” said the child,</span>
   <span id="f000459">opening her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000460">“and are never to come back here;</span>
   <span id="f000461">but first,</span>
   <span id="f000462">we’re to be together all the Christmas long,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and have the merriest time in all the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">“You are quite a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000465">little Fan!” exclaimed the boy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">She clapped her hands and laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and tried to touch his head;</span>
   <span id="f000468">but being too little,</span>
   <span id="f000469">laughed again,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and stood on tiptoe to embrace him.</span>
   <span id="f000471">Then she began to drag him,</span>
   <span id="f000472">in her childish eagerness,</span>
   <span id="f000473">towards the door;</span>
   <span id="f000474">and he,</span>
   <span id="f000475">nothing loth to go,</span>
   <span id="f000476">accompanied her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">A terrible voice in the hall cried,</span>
   <span id="f000478">“Bring down Master Scrooge’s box,</span>
   <span id="f000479">there!” and in the hall appeared the schoolmaster himself,</span>
   <span id="f000480">who glared on Master Scrooge with a ferocious condescension,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and threw him into a dreadful state of mind by shaking hands with him.</span>
   <span id="f000482">He then conveyed him and his sister into the veriest old well of a shivering best-parlour that ever was seen,</span>
   <span id="f000483">where the maps upon the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and the celestial and terrestrial globes in the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000485">were waxy with cold.</span>
   <span id="f000486">Here he produced a decanter of curiously light wine,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and a block of curiously heavy cake,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and administered instalments of those dainties to the young people:</span>
   <span id="f000489">at the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000490">sending out a meagre servant to offer a glass of “something” to the postboy,</span>
   <span id="f000491">who answered that he thanked the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000492">but if it was the same tap as he had tasted before,</span>
   <span id="f000493">he had rather not.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Master Scrooge’s trunk being by this time tied on to the top of the chaise,</span>
   <span id="f000495">the children bade the schoolmaster good-bye right willingly;</span>
   <span id="f000496">and getting into it,</span>
   <span id="f000497">drove gaily down the garden-sweep:</span>
   <span id="f000498">the quick wheels dashing the hoar-frost and snow from off the dark leaves of the evergreens like spray.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“Always a delicate creature,</span>
   <span id="f000500">whom a breath might have withered,” said the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000501">“But she had a large heart!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">“So she had,” cried Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000503">“You’re right.</span>
   <span id="f000504">I will not gainsay it,</span>
   <span id="f000505">Spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000506">God forbid!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">“She died a woman,” said the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000508">“and had,</span>
   <span id="f000509">as I think,</span>
   <span id="f000510">children.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“One child,” Scrooge returned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">“True,” said the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000513">“Your nephew!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">Scrooge seemed uneasy in his mind;</span>
   <span id="f000515">and answered briefly,</span>
   <span id="f000516">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">Although they had but that moment left the school behind them,</span>
   <span id="f000518">they were now in the busy thoroughfares of a city,</span>
   <span id="f000519">where shadowy passengers passed and repassed;</span>
   <span id="f000520">where shadowy carts and coaches battled for the way,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and all the strife and tumult of a real city were.</span>
   <span id="f000522">It was made plain enough,</span>
   <span id="f000523">by the dressing of the shops,</span>
   <span id="f000524">that here too it was Christmas time again;</span>
   <span id="f000525">but it was evening,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and the streets were lighted up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">The Ghost stopped at a certain warehouse door,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and asked Scrooge if he knew it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">“Know it!” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000530">“Was I apprenticed here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">They went in.</span>
   <span id="f000532">At sight of an old gentleman in a Welsh wig,</span>
   <span id="f000533">sitting behind such a high desk,</span>
   <span id="f000534">that if he had been two inches taller he must have knocked his head against the ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f000535">Scrooge cried in great excitement:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000537">it’s old Fezziwig!</span>
   <span id="f000538">Bless his heart;</span>
   <span id="f000539">it’s Fezziwig alive again!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">Old Fezziwig laid down his pen,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and looked up at the clock,</span>
   <span id="f000542">which pointed to the hour of seven.</span>
   <span id="f000543">He rubbed his hands;</span>
   <span id="f000544">adjusted his capacious waistcoat;</span>
   <span id="f000545">laughed all over himself,</span>
   <span id="f000546">from his shoes to his organ of benevolence;</span>
   <span id="f000547">and called out in a comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000548">oily,</span>
   <span id="f000549">rich,</span>
   <span id="f000550">fat,</span>
   <span id="f000551">jovial voice:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">“Yo ho,</span>
   <span id="f000553">there!</span>
   <span id="f000554">Ebenezer!</span>
   <span id="f000555">Dick!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">Scrooge’s former self,</span>
   <span id="f000557">now grown a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000558">came briskly in,</span>
   <span id="f000559">accompanied by his fellow-’prentice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">“Dick Wilkins,</span>
   <span id="f000561">to be sure!” said Scrooge to the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000562">“Bless me,</span>
   <span id="f000563">yes.</span>
   <span id="f000564">There he is.</span>
   <span id="f000565">He was very much attached to me,</span>
   <span id="f000566">was Dick.</span>
   <span id="f000567">Poor Dick!</span>
   <span id="f000568">Dear,</span>
   <span id="f000569">dear!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">“Yo ho,</span>
   <span id="f000571">my boys!” said Fezziwig.</span>
   <span id="f000572">“No more work to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000573">Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000574">Dick.</span>
   <span id="f000575">Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000576">Ebenezer!</span>
   <span id="f000577">Let’s have the shutters up,” cried old Fezziwig,</span>
   <span id="f000578">with a sharp clap of his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000579">“before a man can say Jack Robinson!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">You wouldn’t believe how those two fellows went at it!</span>
   <span id="f000581">They charged into the street with the shutters – one,</span>
   <span id="f000582">two,</span>
   <span id="f000583">three – had ’em up in their places – four,</span>
   <span id="f000584">five,</span>
   <span id="f000585">six – barred ’em and pinned ’em – seven,</span>
   <span id="f000586">eight,</span>
   <span id="f000587">nine – and came back before you could have got to twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000588">panting like race-horses.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">“Hilli-ho!” cried old Fezziwig,</span>
   <span id="f000590">skipping down from the high desk,</span>
   <span id="f000591">with wonderful agility.</span>
   <span id="f000592">“Clear away,</span>
   <span id="f000593">my lads,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and let’s have lots of room here!</span>
   <span id="f000595">Hilli-ho,</span>
   <span id="f000596">Dick!</span>
   <span id="f000597">Chirrup,</span>
   <span id="f000598">Ebenezer!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">Clear away!</span>
   <span id="f000600">There was nothing they wouldn’t have cleared away,</span>
   <span id="f000601">or couldn’t have cleared away,</span>
   <span id="f000602">with old Fezziwig looking on.</span>
   <span id="f000603">It was done in a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000604">Every movable was packed off,</span>
   <span id="f000605">as if it were dismissed from public life for evermore;</span>
   <span id="f000606">the floor was swept and watered,</span>
   <span id="f000607">the lamps were trimmed,</span>
   <span id="f000608">fuel was heaped upon the fire;</span>
   <span id="f000609">and the warehouse was as snug,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and warm,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and dry,</span>
   <span id="f000612">and bright a ball-room,</span>
   <span id="f000613">as you would desire to see upon a winter’s night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">In came a fiddler with a music-book,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and went up to the lofty desk,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and made an orchestra of it,</span>
   <span id="f000617">and tuned like fifty stomach-aches.</span>
   <span id="f000618">In came Mrs.&#160;Fezziwig,</span>
   <span id="f000619">one vast substantial smile.</span>
   <span id="f000620">In came the three Miss Fezziwigs,</span>
   <span id="f000621">beaming and lovable.</span>
   <span id="f000622">In came the six young followers whose hearts they broke.</span>
   <span id="f000623">In came all the young men and women employed in the business.</span>
   <span id="f000624">In came the housemaid,</span>
   <span id="f000625">with her cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000626">the baker.</span>
   <span id="f000627">In came the cook,</span>
   <span id="f000628">with her brother’s particular friend,</span>
   <span id="f000629">the milkman.</span>
   <span id="f000630">In came the boy from over the way,</span>
   <span id="f000631">who was suspected of not having board enough from his master;</span>
   <span id="f000632">trying to hide himself behind the girl from next door but one,</span>
   <span id="f000633">who was proved to have had her ears pulled by her mistress.</span>
   <span id="f000634">In they all came,</span>
   <span id="f000635">one after another;</span>
   <span id="f000636">some shyly,</span>
   <span id="f000637">some boldly,</span>
   <span id="f000638">some gracefully,</span>
   <span id="f000639">some awkwardly,</span>
   <span id="f000640">some pushing,</span>
   <span id="f000641">some pulling;</span>
   <span id="f000642">in they all came,</span>
   <span id="f000643">anyhow and everyhow.</span>
   <span id="f000644">Away they all went,</span>
   <span id="f000645">twenty couple at once;</span>
   <span id="f000646">hands half round and back again the other way;</span>
   <span id="f000647">down the middle and up again;</span>
   <span id="f000648">round and round in various stages of affectionate grouping;</span>
   <span id="f000649">old top couple always turning up in the wrong place;</span>
   <span id="f000650">new top couple starting off again,</span>
   <span id="f000651">as soon as they got there;</span>
   <span id="f000652">all top couples at last,</span>
   <span id="f000653">and not a bottom one to help them!</span>
   <span id="f000654">When this result was brought about,</span>
   <span id="f000655">old Fezziwig,</span>
   <span id="f000656">clapping his hands to stop the dance,</span>
   <span id="f000657">cried out,</span>
   <span id="f000658">“Well done!” and the fiddler plunged his hot face into a pot of porter,</span>
   <span id="f000659">especially provided for that purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000660">But scorning rest,</span>
   <span id="f000661">upon his reappearance,</span>
   <span id="f000662">he instantly began again,</span>
   <span id="f000663">though there were no dancers yet,</span>
   <span id="f000664">as if the other fiddler had been carried home,</span>
   <span id="f000665">exhausted,</span>
   <span id="f000666">on a shutter,</span>
   <span id="f000667">and he were a bran-new man resolved to beat him out of sight,</span>
   <span id="f000668">or perish.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">There were more dances,</span>
   <span id="f000670">and there were forfeits,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and more dances,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and there was cake,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and there was negus,</span>
   <span id="f000674">and there was a great piece of Cold Roast,</span>
   <span id="f000675">and there was a great piece of Cold Boiled,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and there were mince-pies,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and plenty of beer.</span>
   <span id="f000678">But the great effect of the evening came after the Roast and Boiled,</span>
   <span id="f000679">when the fiddler</span>
   <span id="f000680">(an artful dog,</span>
   <span id="f000681">mind!</span>
   <span id="f000682">The sort of man who knew his business better than you or I could have told it him!)</span>
   <span id="f000683">struck up “Sir Roger de Coverley.” Then old Fezziwig stood out to dance with Mrs.&#160;Fezziwig.</span>
   <span id="f000684">Top couple,</span>
   <span id="f000685">too;</span>
   <span id="f000686">with a good stiff piece of work cut out for them;</span>
   <span id="f000687">three or four and twenty pair of partners;</span>
   <span id="f000688">people who were not to be trifled with;</span>
   <span id="f000689">people who would dance,</span>
   <span id="f000690">and had no notion of walking.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">But if they had been twice as many – ah,</span>
   <span id="f000692">four times – old Fezziwig would have been a match for them,</span>
   <span id="f000693">and so would Mrs.&#160;Fezziwig.</span>
   <span id="f000694">As to her,</span>
   <span id="f000695">she was worthy to be his partner in every sense of the term.</span>
   <span id="f000696">If that’s not high praise,</span>
   <span id="f000697">tell me higher,</span>
   <span id="f000698">and I’ll use it.</span>
   <span id="f000699">A positive light appeared to issue from Fezziwig’s calves.</span>
   <span id="f000700">They shone in every part of the dance like moons.</span>
   <span id="f000701">You couldn’t have predicted,</span>
   <span id="f000702">at any given time,</span>
   <span id="f000703">what would have become of them next.</span>
   <span id="f000704">And when old Fezziwig and Mrs.&#160;Fezziwig had gone all through the dance;</span>
   <span id="f000705">advance and retire,</span>
   <span id="f000706">both hands to your partner,</span>
   <span id="f000707">bow and curtsey,</span>
   <span id="f000708">corkscrew,</span>
   <span id="f000709">thread-the-needle,</span>
   <span id="f000710">and back again to your place;</span>
   <span id="f000711">Fezziwig “cut” – cut so deftly,</span>
   <span id="f000712">that he appeared to wink with his legs,</span>
   <span id="f000713">and came upon his feet again without a stagger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000714">When the clock struck eleven,</span>
   <span id="f000715">this domestic ball broke up.</span>
   <span id="f000716">Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Fezziwig took their stations,</span>
   <span id="f000717">one on either side of the door,</span>
   <span id="f000718">and shaking hands with every person individually as he or she went out,</span>
   <span id="f000719">wished him or her a Merry Christmas.</span>
   <span id="f000720">When everybody had retired but the two ’prentices,</span>
   <span id="f000721">they did the same to them;</span>
   <span id="f000722">and thus the cheerful voices died away,</span>
   <span id="f000723">and the lads were left to their beds;</span>
   <span id="f000724">which were under a counter in the back-shop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">During the whole of this time,</span>
   <span id="f000726">Scrooge had acted like a man out of his wits.</span>
   <span id="f000727">His heart and soul were in the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000728">and with his former self.</span>
   <span id="f000729">He corroborated everything,</span>
   <span id="f000730">remembered everything,</span>
   <span id="f000731">enjoyed everything,</span>
   <span id="f000732">and underwent the strangest agitation.</span>
   <span id="f000733">It was not until now,</span>
   <span id="f000734">when the bright faces of his former self and Dick were turned from them,</span>
   <span id="f000735">that he remembered the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000736">and became conscious that it was looking full upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000737">while the light upon its head burnt very clear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000738">“A small matter,” said the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000739">“to make these silly folks so full of gratitude.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“Small!” echoed Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000741">The Spirit signed to him to listen to the two apprentices,</span>
   <span id="f000742">who were pouring out their hearts in praise of Fezziwig:</span>
   <span id="f000743">and when he had done so,</span>
   <span id="f000744">said,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">“Why!</span>
   <span id="f000746">Is it not?</span>
   <span id="f000747">He has spent but a few pounds of your mortal money:</span>
   <span id="f000748">three or four perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000749">Is that so much that he deserves this praise?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“It isn’t that,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000751">heated by the remark,</span>
   <span id="f000752">and speaking unconsciously like his former,</span>
   <span id="f000753">not his latter,</span>
   <span id="f000754">self.</span>
   <span id="f000755">“It isn’t that,</span>
   <span id="f000756">Spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000757">He has the power to render us happy or unhappy;</span>
   <span id="f000758">to make our service light or burdensome;</span>
   <span id="f000759">a pleasure or a toil.</span>
   <span id="f000760">Say that his power lies in words and looks;</span>
   <span id="f000761">in things so slight and insignificant that it is impossible to add and count ’em up:</span>
   <span id="f000762">what then?</span>
   <span id="f000763">The happiness he gives,</span>
   <span id="f000764">is quite as great as if it cost a fortune.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">He felt the Spirit’s glance,</span>
   <span id="f000766">and stopped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">“What is the matter?” asked the Ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">“Nothing particular,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000769">“Something,</span>
   <span id="f000770">I think?” the Ghost insisted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000771">“No,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000772">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000773">I should like to be able to say a word or two to my clerk just now.</span>
   <span id="f000774">That’s all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">His former self turned down the lamps as he gave utterance to the wish;</span>
   <span id="f000776">and Scrooge and the Ghost again stood side by side in the open air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000777">“My time grows short,” observed the Spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000778">“Quick!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">This was not addressed to Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000780">or to any one whom he could see,</span>
   <span id="f000781">but it produced an immediate effect.</span>
   <span id="f000782">For again Scrooge saw himself.</span>
   <span id="f000783">He was older now;</span>
   <span id="f000784">a man in the prime of life.</span>
   <span id="f000785">His face had not the harsh and rigid lines of later years;</span>
   <span id="f000786">but it had begun to wear the signs of care and avarice.</span>
   <span id="f000787">There was an eager,</span>
   <span id="f000788">greedy,</span>
   <span id="f000789">restless motion in the eye,</span>
   <span id="f000790">which showed the passion that had taken root,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and where the shadow of the growing tree would fall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">He was not alone,</span>
   <span id="f000793">but sat by the side of a fair young girl in a mourning-dress:</span>
   <span id="f000794">in whose eyes there were tears,</span>
   <span id="f000795">which sparkled in the light that shone out of the Ghost of Christmas Past.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“It matters little,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000797">softly.</span>
   <span id="f000798">“To you,</span>
   <span id="f000799">very little.</span>
   <span id="f000800">Another idol has displaced me;</span>
   <span id="f000801">and if it can cheer and comfort you in time to come,</span>
   <span id="f000802">as I would have tried to do,</span>
   <span id="f000803">I have no just cause to grieve.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“What Idol has displaced you?” he rejoined.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">“A golden one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">“This is the even-handed dealing of the world!” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000807">“There is nothing on which it is so hard as poverty;</span>
   <span id="f000808">and there is nothing it professes to condemn with such severity as the pursuit of wealth!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">“You fear the world too much,” she answered,</span>
   <span id="f000810">gently.</span>
   <span id="f000811">“All your other hopes have merged into the hope of being beyond the chance of its sordid reproach.</span>
   <span id="f000812">I have seen your nobler aspirations fall off one by one,</span>
   <span id="f000813">until the master-passion,</span>
   <span id="f000814">Gain,</span>
   <span id="f000815">engrosses you.</span>
   <span id="f000816">Have I not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">“What then?” he retorted.</span>
   <span id="f000818">“Even if I have grown so much wiser,</span>
   <span id="f000819">what then?</span>
   <span id="f000820">I am not changed towards you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">She shook her head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">“Am I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000823">“Our contract is an old one.</span>
   <span id="f000824">It was made when we were both poor and content to be so,</span>
   <span id="f000825">until,</span>
   <span id="f000826">in good season,</span>
   <span id="f000827">we could improve our worldly fortune by our patient industry.</span>
   <span id="f000828">You are changed.</span>
   <span id="f000829">When it was made,</span>
   <span id="f000830">you were another man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000831">“I was a boy,” he said impatiently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000832">“Your own feeling tells you that you were not what you are,” she returned.</span>
   <span id="f000833">“I am.</span>
   <span id="f000834">That which promised happiness when we were one in heart,</span>
   <span id="f000835">is fraught with misery now that we are two.</span>
   <span id="f000836">How often and how keenly I have thought of this,</span>
   <span id="f000837">I will not say.</span>
   <span id="f000838">It is enough that I have thought of it,</span>
   <span id="f000839">and can release you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000840">“Have I ever sought release?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000841">“In words.</span>
   <span id="f000842">No.</span>
   <span id="f000843">Never.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000844">“In what,</span>
   <span id="f000845">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">“In a changed nature;</span>
   <span id="f000847">in an altered spirit;</span>
   <span id="f000848">in another atmosphere of life;</span>
   <span id="f000849">another Hope as its great end.</span>
   <span id="f000850">In everything that made my love of any worth or value in your sight.</span>
   <span id="f000851">If this had never been between us,” said the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000852">looking mildly,</span>
   <span id="f000853">but with steadiness,</span>
   <span id="f000854">upon him;</span>
   <span id="f000855">“tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000856">would you seek me out and try to win me now?</span>
   <span id="f000857">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000858">no!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000859">He seemed to yield to the justice of this supposition,</span>
   <span id="f000860">in spite of himself.</span>
   <span id="f000861">But he said with a struggle,</span>
   <span id="f000862">“You think not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">“I would gladly think otherwise if I could,” she answered,</span>
   <span id="f000864">“Heaven knows!</span>
   <span id="f000865">When I have learned a Truth like this,</span>
   <span id="f000866">I know how strong and irresistible it must be.</span>
   <span id="f000867">But if you were free to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000868">to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000869">yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000870">can even I believe that you would choose a dowerless girl – you who,</span>
   <span id="f000871">in your very confidence with her,</span>
   <span id="f000872">weigh everything by Gain:</span>
   <span id="f000873">or,</span>
   <span id="f000874">choosing her,</span>
   <span id="f000875">if for a moment you were false enough to your one guiding principle to do so,</span>
   <span id="f000876">do I not know that your repentance and regret would surely follow?</span>
   <span id="f000877">I do;</span>
   <span id="f000878">and I release you.</span>
   <span id="f000879">With a full heart,</span>
   <span id="f000880">for the love of him you once were.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000881">He was about to speak;</span>
   <span id="f000882">but with her head turned from him,</span>
   <span id="f000883">she resumed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000884">“You may – the memory of what is past half makes me hope you will – have pain in this.</span>
   <span id="f000885">A very,</span>
   <span id="f000886">very brief time,</span>
   <span id="f000887">and you will dismiss the recollection of it,</span>
   <span id="f000888">gladly,</span>
   <span id="f000889">as an unprofitable dream,</span>
   <span id="f000890">from which it happened well that you awoke.</span>
   <span id="f000891">May you be happy in the life you have chosen!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000892">She left him,</span>
   <span id="f000893">and they parted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000894">“Spirit!” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000895">“show me no more!</span>
   <span id="f000896">Conduct me home.</span>
   <span id="f000897">Why do you delight to torture me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000898">“One shadow more!” exclaimed the Ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000899">“No more!” cried Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000900">“No more.</span>
   <span id="f000901">I don’t wish to see it.</span>
   <span id="f000902">Show me no more!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000903">But the relentless Ghost pinioned him in both his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000904">and forced him to observe what happened next.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000905">They were in another scene and place;</span>
   <span id="f000906">a room,</span>
   <span id="f000907">not very large or handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000908">but full of comfort.</span>
   <span id="f000909">Near to the winter fire sat a beautiful young girl,</span>
   <span id="f000910">so like that last that Scrooge believed it was the same,</span>
   <span id="f000911">until he saw her,</span>
   <span id="f000912">now a comely matron,</span>
   <span id="f000913">sitting opposite her daughter.</span>
   <span id="f000914">The noise in this room was perfectly tumultuous,</span>
   <span id="f000915">for there were more children there,</span>
   <span id="f000916">than Scrooge in his agitated state of mind could count;</span>
   <span id="f000917">and,</span>
   <span id="f000918">unlike the celebrated herd in the poem,</span>
   <span id="f000919">they were not forty children conducting themselves like one,</span>
   <span id="f000920">but every child was conducting itself like forty.</span>
   <span id="f000921">The consequences were uproarious beyond belief;</span>
   <span id="f000922">but no one seemed to care;</span>
   <span id="f000923">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000924">the mother and daughter laughed heartily,</span>
   <span id="f000925">and enjoyed it very much;</span>
   <span id="f000926">and the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000927">soon beginning to mingle in the sports,</span>
   <span id="f000928">got pillaged by the young brigands most ruthlessly.</span>
   <span id="f000929">What would I not have given to be one of them!</span>
   <span id="f000930">Though I never could have been so rude,</span>
   <span id="f000931">no,</span>
   <span id="f000932">no!</span>
   <span id="f000933">I wouldn’t for the wealth of all the world have crushed that braided hair,</span>
   <span id="f000934">and torn it down;</span>
   <span id="f000935">and for the precious little shoe,</span>
   <span id="f000936">I wouldn’t have plucked it off,</span>
   <span id="f000937">God bless my soul!</span>
   <span id="f000938">to save my life.</span>
   <span id="f000939">As to measuring her waist in sport,</span>
   <span id="f000940">as they did,</span>
   <span id="f000941">bold young brood,</span>
   <span id="f000942">I couldn’t have done it;</span>
   <span id="f000943">I should have expected my arm to have grown round it for a punishment,</span>
   <span id="f000944">and never come straight again.</span>
   <span id="f000945">And yet I should have dearly liked,</span>
   <span id="f000946">I own,</span>
   <span id="f000947">to have touched her lips;</span>
   <span id="f000948">to have questioned her,</span>
   <span id="f000949">that she might have opened them;</span>
   <span id="f000950">to have looked upon the lashes of her downcast eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000951">and never raised a blush;</span>
   <span id="f000952">to have let loose waves of hair,</span>
   <span id="f000953">an inch of which would be a keepsake beyond price:</span>
   <span id="f000954">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000955">I should have liked,</span>
   <span id="f000956">I do confess,</span>
   <span id="f000957">to have had the lightest licence of a child,</span>
   <span id="f000958">and yet to have been man enough to know its value.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">But now a knocking at the door was heard,</span>
   <span id="f000960">and such a rush immediately ensued that she with laughing face and plundered dress was borne towards it the centre of a flushed and boisterous group,</span>
   <span id="f000961">just in time to greet the father,</span>
   <span id="f000962">who came home attended by a man laden with Christmas toys and presents.</span>
   <span id="f000963">Then the shouting and the struggling,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and the onslaught that was made on the defenceless porter!</span>
   <span id="f000965">The scaling him with chairs for ladders to dive into his pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000966">despoil him of brown-paper parcels,</span>
   <span id="f000967">hold on tight by his cravat,</span>
   <span id="f000968">hug him round his neck,</span>
   <span id="f000969">pommel his back,</span>
   <span id="f000970">and kick his legs in irrepressible affection!</span>
   <span id="f000971">The shouts of wonder and delight with which the development of every package was received!</span>
   <span id="f000972">The terrible announcement that the baby had been taken in the act of putting a doll’s frying-pan into his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000973">and was more than suspected of having swallowed a fictitious turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000974">glued on a wooden platter!</span>
   <span id="f000975">The immense relief of finding this a false alarm!</span>
   <span id="f000976">The joy,</span>
   <span id="f000977">and gratitude,</span>
   <span id="f000978">and ecstasy!</span>
   <span id="f000979">They are all indescribable alike.</span>
   <span id="f000980">It is enough that by degrees the children and their emotions got out of the parlour,</span>
   <span id="f000981">and by one stair at a time,</span>
   <span id="f000982">up to the top of the house;</span>
   <span id="f000983">where they went to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000984">and so subsided.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000985">And now Scrooge looked on more attentively than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000986">when the master of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000987">having his daughter leaning fondly on him,</span>
   <span id="f000988">sat down with her and her mother at his own fireside;</span>
   <span id="f000989">and when he thought that such another creature,</span>
   <span id="f000990">quite as graceful and as full of promise,</span>
   <span id="f000991">might have called him father,</span>
   <span id="f000992">and been a spring-time in the haggard winter of his life,</span>
   <span id="f000993">his sight grew very dim indeed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000994">“Belle,” said the husband,</span>
   <span id="f000995">turning to his wife with a smile,</span>
   <span id="f000996">“I saw an old friend of yours this afternoon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000997">“Who was it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000998">“Guess!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000999">“How can I?</span>
   <span id="f001000">Tut,</span>
   <span id="f001001">don’t I know?” she added in the same breath,</span>
   <span id="f001002">laughing as he laughed.</span>
   <span id="f001003">“Mr.&#160;Scrooge.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001004">“Mr.&#160;Scrooge it was.</span>
   <span id="f001005">I passed his office window;</span>
   <span id="f001006">and as it was not shut up,</span>
   <span id="f001007">and he had a candle inside,</span>
   <span id="f001008">I could scarcely help seeing him.</span>
   <span id="f001009">His partner lies upon the point of death,</span>
   <span id="f001010">I hear;</span>
   <span id="f001011">and there he sat alone.</span>
   <span id="f001012">Quite alone in the world,</span>
   <span id="f001013">I do believe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001014">“Spirit!” said Scrooge in a broken voice,</span>
   <span id="f001015">“remove me from this place.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001016">“I told you these were shadows of the things that have been,” said the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f001017">“That they are what they are,</span>
   <span id="f001018">do not blame me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001019">“Remove me!” Scrooge exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f001020">“I cannot bear it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001021">He turned upon the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f001022">and seeing that it looked upon him with a face,</span>
   <span id="f001023">in which in some strange way there were fragments of all the faces it had shown him,</span>
   <span id="f001024">wrestled with it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001025">“Leave me!</span>
   <span id="f001026">Take me back.</span>
   <span id="f001027">Haunt me no longer!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001028">In the struggle,</span>
   <span id="f001029">if that can be called a struggle in which the Ghost with no visible resistance on its own part was undisturbed by any effort of its adversary,</span>
   <span id="f001030">Scrooge observed that its light was burning high and bright;</span>
   <span id="f001031">and dimly connecting that with its influence over him,</span>
   <span id="f001032">he seized the extinguisher-cap,</span>
   <span id="f001033">and by a sudden action pressed it down upon its head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001034">The Spirit dropped beneath it,</span>
   <span id="f001035">so that the extinguisher covered its whole form;</span>
   <span id="f001036">but though Scrooge pressed it down with all his force,</span>
   <span id="f001037">he could not hide the light:</span>
   <span id="f001038">which streamed from under it,</span>
   <span id="f001039">in an unbroken flood upon the ground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001040">He was conscious of being exhausted,</span>
   <span id="f001041">and overcome by an irresistible drowsiness;</span>
   <span id="f001042">and,</span>
   <span id="f001043">further,</span>
   <span id="f001044">of being in his own bedroom.</span>
   <span id="f001045">He gave the cap a parting squeeze,</span>
   <span id="f001046">in which his hand relaxed;</span>
   <span id="f001047">and had barely time to reel to bed,</span>
   <span id="f001048">before he sank into a heavy sleep.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

