<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter III<br />The Second Of The Three Spirits</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Awaking in the middle of a prodigiously tough snore,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and sitting up in bed to get his thoughts together,</span>
   <span id="f000004">Scrooge had no occasion to be told that the bell was again upon the stroke of One.</span>
   <span id="f000005">He felt that he was restored to consciousness in the right nick of time,</span>
   <span id="f000006">for the especial purpose of holding a conference with the second messenger despatched to him through Jacob Marley’s intervention.</span>
   <span id="f000007">But finding that he turned uncomfortably cold when he began to wonder which of his curtains this new spectre would draw back,</span>
   <span id="f000008">he put them every one aside with his own hands;</span>
   <span id="f000009">and lying down again,</span>
   <span id="f000010">established a sharp look-out all round the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000011">For he wished to challenge the Spirit on the moment of its appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and did not wish to be taken by surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and made nervous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Gentlemen of the free-and-easy sort,</span>
   <span id="f000015">who plume themselves on being acquainted with a move or two,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and being usually equal to the time-of-day,</span>
   <span id="f000017">express the wide range of their capacity for adventure by observing that they are good for anything from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter;</span>
   <span id="f000018">between which opposite extremes,</span>
   <span id="f000019">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000020">there lies a tolerably wide and comprehensive range of subjects.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Without venturing for Scrooge quite as hardily as this,</span>
   <span id="f000022">I don’t mind calling on you to believe that he was ready for a good broad field of strange appearances,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and that nothing between a baby and rhinoceros would have astonished him very much.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000025">being prepared for almost anything,</span>
   <span id="f000026">he was not by any means prepared for nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000027">and,</span>
   <span id="f000028">consequently,</span>
   <span id="f000029">when the Bell struck One,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and no shape appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000031">he was taken with a violent fit of trembling.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Five minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000033">ten minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000034">a quarter of an hour went by,</span>
   <span id="f000035">yet nothing came.</span>
   <span id="f000036">All this time,</span>
   <span id="f000037">he lay upon his bed,</span>
   <span id="f000038">the very core and centre of a blaze of ruddy light,</span>
   <span id="f000039">which streamed upon it when the clock proclaimed the hour;</span>
   <span id="f000040">and which,</span>
   <span id="f000041">being only light,</span>
   <span id="f000042">was more alarming than a dozen ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000043">as he was powerless to make out what it meant,</span>
   <span id="f000044">or would be at;</span>
   <span id="f000045">and was sometimes apprehensive that he might be at that very moment an interesting case of spontaneous combustion,</span>
   <span id="f000046">without having the consolation of knowing it.</span>
   <span id="f000047">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000048">however,</span>
   <span id="f000049">he began to think – as you or I would have thought at first;</span>
   <span id="f000050">for it is always the person not in the predicament who knows what ought to have been done in it,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and would unquestionably have done it too – at last,</span>
   <span id="f000052">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000053">he began to think that the source and secret of this ghostly light might be in the adjoining room,</span>
   <span id="f000054">from whence,</span>
   <span id="f000055">on further tracing it,</span>
   <span id="f000056">it seemed to shine.</span>
   <span id="f000057">This idea taking full possession of his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000058">he got up softly and shuffled in his slippers to the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">The moment Scrooge’s hand was on the lock,</span>
   <span id="f000060">a strange voice called him by his name,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and bade him enter.</span>
   <span id="f000062">He obeyed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">It was his own room.</span>
   <span id="f000064">There was no doubt about that.</span>
   <span id="f000065">But it had undergone a surprising transformation.</span>
   <span id="f000066">The walls and ceiling were so hung with living green,</span>
   <span id="f000067">that it looked a perfect grove;</span>
   <span id="f000068">from every part of which,</span>
   <span id="f000069">bright gleaming berries glistened.</span>
   <span id="f000070">The crisp leaves of holly,</span>
   <span id="f000071">mistletoe,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and ivy reflected back the light,</span>
   <span id="f000073">as if so many little mirrors had been scattered there;</span>
   <span id="f000074">and such a mighty blaze went roaring up the chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000075">as that dull petrification of a hearth had never known in Scrooge’s time,</span>
   <span id="f000076">or Marley’s,</span>
   <span id="f000077">or for many and many a winter season gone.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Heaped up on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000079">to form a kind of throne,</span>
   <span id="f000080">were turkeys,</span>
   <span id="f000081">geese,</span>
   <span id="f000082">game,</span>
   <span id="f000083">poultry,</span>
   <span id="f000084">brawn,</span>
   <span id="f000085">great joints of meat,</span>
   <span id="f000086">sucking-pigs,</span>
   <span id="f000087">long wreaths of sausages,</span>
   <span id="f000088">mince-pies,</span>
   <span id="f000089">plum-puddings,</span>
   <span id="f000090">barrels of oysters,</span>
   <span id="f000091">red-hot chestnuts,</span>
   <span id="f000092">cherry-cheeked apples,</span>
   <span id="f000093">juicy oranges,</span>
   <span id="f000094">luscious pears,</span>
   <span id="f000095">immense twelfth-cakes,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and seething bowls of punch,</span>
   <span id="f000097">that made the chamber dim with their delicious steam.</span>
   <span id="f000098">In easy state upon this couch,</span>
   <span id="f000099">there sat a jolly Giant,</span>
   <span id="f000100">glorious to see;</span>
   <span id="f000101">who bore a glowing torch,</span>
   <span id="f000102">in shape not unlike Plenty’s horn,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and held it up,</span>
   <span id="f000104">high up,</span>
   <span id="f000105">to shed its light on Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000106">as he came peeping round the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“Come in!” exclaimed the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000108">“Come in!</span>
   <span id="f000109">and know me better,</span>
   <span id="f000110">man!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">Scrooge entered timidly,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and hung his head before this Spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000113">He was not the dogged Scrooge he had been;</span>
   <span id="f000114">and though the Spirit’s eyes were clear and kind,</span>
   <span id="f000115">he did not like to meet them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“I am the Ghost of Christmas Present,” said the Spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000117">“Look upon me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">Scrooge reverently did so.</span>
   <span id="f000119">It was clothed in one simple green robe,</span>
   <span id="f000120">or mantle,</span>
   <span id="f000121">bordered with white fur.</span>
   <span id="f000122">This garment hung so loosely on the figure,</span>
   <span id="f000123">that its capacious breast was bare,</span>
   <span id="f000124">as if disdaining to be warded or concealed by any artifice.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Its feet,</span>
   <span id="f000126">observable beneath the ample folds of the garment,</span>
   <span id="f000127">were also bare;</span>
   <span id="f000128">and on its head it wore no other covering than a holly wreath,</span>
   <span id="f000129">set here and there with shining icicles.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Its dark brown curls were long and free;</span>
   <span id="f000131">free as its genial face,</span>
   <span id="f000132">its sparkling eye,</span>
   <span id="f000133">its open hand,</span>
   <span id="f000134">its cheery voice,</span>
   <span id="f000135">its unconstrained demeanour,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and its joyful air.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Girded round its middle was an antique scabbard;</span>
   <span id="f000138">but no sword was in it,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and the ancient sheath was eaten up with rust.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“You have never seen the like of me before!” exclaimed the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“Never,” Scrooge made answer to it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“Have never walked forth with the younger members of my family;</span>
   <span id="f000143">meaning</span>
   <span id="f000144">(for I am very young)</span>
   <span id="f000145">my elder brothers born in these later years?” pursued the Phantom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“I don’t think I have,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000147">“I am afraid I have not.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Have you had many brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000149">Spirit?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“More than eighteen hundred,” said the Ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“A tremendous family to provide for!” muttered Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">The Ghost of Christmas Present rose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“Spirit,” said Scrooge submissively,</span>
   <span id="f000154">“conduct me where you will.</span>
   <span id="f000155">I went forth last night on compulsion,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and I learnt a lesson which is working now.</span>
   <span id="f000157">To-night,</span>
   <span id="f000158">if you have aught to teach me,</span>
   <span id="f000159">let me profit by it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“Touch my robe!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">Scrooge did as he was told,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and held it fast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">Holly,</span>
   <span id="f000164">mistletoe,</span>
   <span id="f000165">red berries,</span>
   <span id="f000166">ivy,</span>
   <span id="f000167">turkeys,</span>
   <span id="f000168">geese,</span>
   <span id="f000169">game,</span>
   <span id="f000170">poultry,</span>
   <span id="f000171">brawn,</span>
   <span id="f000172">meat,</span>
   <span id="f000173">pigs,</span>
   <span id="f000174">sausages,</span>
   <span id="f000175">oysters,</span>
   <span id="f000176">pies,</span>
   <span id="f000177">puddings,</span>
   <span id="f000178">fruit,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and punch,</span>
   <span id="f000180">all vanished instantly.</span>
   <span id="f000181">So did the room,</span>
   <span id="f000182">the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000183">the ruddy glow,</span>
   <span id="f000184">the hour of night,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and they stood in the city streets on Christmas morning,</span>
   <span id="f000186">where</span>
   <span id="f000187">(for the weather was severe)</span>
   <span id="f000188">the people made a rough,</span>
   <span id="f000189">but brisk and not unpleasant kind of music,</span>
   <span id="f000190">in scraping the snow from the pavement in front of their dwellings,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and from the tops of their houses,</span>
   <span id="f000192">whence it was mad delight to the boys to see it come plumping down into the road below,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and splitting into artificial little snow-storms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">The house fronts looked black enough,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and the windows blacker,</span>
   <span id="f000196">contrasting with the smooth white sheet of snow upon the roofs,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and with the dirtier snow upon the ground;</span>
   <span id="f000198">which last deposit had been ploughed up in deep furrows by the heavy wheels of carts and waggons;</span>
   <span id="f000199">furrows that crossed and re-crossed each other hundreds of times where the great streets branched off;</span>
   <span id="f000200">and made intricate channels,</span>
   <span id="f000201">hard to trace in the thick yellow mud and icy water.</span>
   <span id="f000202">The sky was gloomy,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and the shortest streets were choked up with a dingy mist,</span>
   <span id="f000204">half thawed,</span>
   <span id="f000205">half frozen,</span>
   <span id="f000206">whose heavier particles descended in a shower of sooty atoms,</span>
   <span id="f000207">as if all the chimneys in Great Britain had,</span>
   <span id="f000208">by one consent,</span>
   <span id="f000209">caught fire,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and were blazing away to their dear hearts’ content.</span>
   <span id="f000211">There was nothing very cheerful in the climate or the town,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and yet was there an air of cheerfulness abroad that the clearest summer air and brightest summer sun might have endeavoured to diffuse in vain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">For,</span>
   <span id="f000214">the people who were shovelling away on the housetops were jovial and full of glee;</span>
   <span id="f000215">calling out to one another from the parapets,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and now and then exchanging a facetious snowball – better-natured missile far than many a wordy jest – laughing heartily if it went right and not less heartily if it went wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000217">The poulterers’ shops were still half open,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and the fruiterers’ were radiant in their glory.</span>
   <span id="f000219">There were great,</span>
   <span id="f000220">round,</span>
   <span id="f000221">pot-bellied baskets of chestnuts,</span>
   <span id="f000222">shaped like the waistcoats of jolly old gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000223">lolling at the doors,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and tumbling out into the street in their apoplectic opulence.</span>
   <span id="f000225">There were ruddy,</span>
   <span id="f000226">brown-faced,</span>
   <span id="f000227">broad-girthed Spanish Onions,</span>
   <span id="f000228">shining in the fatness of their growth like Spanish Friars,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and winking from their shelves in wanton slyness at the girls as they went by,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and glanced demurely at the hung-up mistletoe.</span>
   <span id="f000231">There were pears and apples,</span>
   <span id="f000232">clustered high in blooming pyramids;</span>
   <span id="f000233">there were bunches of grapes,</span>
   <span id="f000234">made,</span>
   <span id="f000235">in the shopkeepers’ benevolence to dangle from conspicuous hooks,</span>
   <span id="f000236">that people’s mouths might water gratis as they passed;</span>
   <span id="f000237">there were piles of filberts,</span>
   <span id="f000238">mossy and brown,</span>
   <span id="f000239">recalling,</span>
   <span id="f000240">in their fragrance,</span>
   <span id="f000241">ancient walks among the woods,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and pleasant shufflings ankle deep through withered leaves;</span>
   <span id="f000243">there were Norfolk Biffins,</span>
   <span id="f000244">squat and swarthy,</span>
   <span id="f000245">setting off the yellow of the oranges and lemons,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and,</span>
   <span id="f000247">in the great compactness of their juicy persons,</span>
   <span id="f000248">urgently entreating and beseeching to be carried home in paper bags and eaten after dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000249">The very gold and silver fish,</span>
   <span id="f000250">set forth among these choice fruits in a bowl,</span>
   <span id="f000251">though members of a dull and stagnant-blooded race,</span>
   <span id="f000252">appeared to know that there was something going on;</span>
   <span id="f000253">and,</span>
   <span id="f000254">to a fish,</span>
   <span id="f000255">went gasping round and round their little world in slow and passionless excitement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">The Grocers’!</span>
   <span id="f000257">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000258">the Grocers’!</span>
   <span id="f000259">nearly closed,</span>
   <span id="f000260">with perhaps two shutters down,</span>
   <span id="f000261">or one;</span>
   <span id="f000262">but through those gaps such glimpses!</span>
   <span id="f000263">It was not alone that the scales descending on the counter made a merry sound,</span>
   <span id="f000264">or that the twine and roller parted company so briskly,</span>
   <span id="f000265">or that the canisters were rattled up and down like juggling tricks,</span>
   <span id="f000266">or even that the blended scents of tea and coffee were so grateful to the nose,</span>
   <span id="f000267">or even that the raisins were so plentiful and rare,</span>
   <span id="f000268">the almonds so extremely white,</span>
   <span id="f000269">the sticks of cinnamon so long and straight,</span>
   <span id="f000270">the other spices so delicious,</span>
   <span id="f000271">the candied fruits so caked and spotted with molten sugar as to make the coldest lookers-on feel faint and subsequently bilious.</span>
   <span id="f000272">Nor was it that the figs were moist and pulpy,</span>
   <span id="f000273">or that the French plums blushed in modest tartness from their highly-decorated boxes,</span>
   <span id="f000274">or that everything was good to eat and in its Christmas dress;</span>
   <span id="f000275">but the customers were all so hurried and so eager in the hopeful promise of the day,</span>
   <span id="f000276">that they tumbled up against each other at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000277">crashing their wicker baskets wildly,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and left their purchases upon the counter,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and came running back to fetch them,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and committed hundreds of the like mistakes,</span>
   <span id="f000281">in the best humour possible;</span>
   <span id="f000282">while the Grocer and his people were so frank and fresh that the polished hearts with which they fastened their aprons behind might have been their own,</span>
   <span id="f000283">worn outside for general inspection,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and for Christmas daws to peck at if they chose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">But soon the steeples called good people all,</span>
   <span id="f000286">to church and chapel,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and away they came,</span>
   <span id="f000288">flocking through the streets in their best clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and with their gayest faces.</span>
   <span id="f000290">And at the same time there emerged from scores of bye-streets,</span>
   <span id="f000291">lanes,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and nameless turnings,</span>
   <span id="f000293">innumerable people,</span>
   <span id="f000294">carrying their dinners to the bakers’ shops.</span>
   <span id="f000295">The sight of these poor revellers appeared to interest the Spirit very much,</span>
   <span id="f000296">for he stood with Scrooge beside him in a baker’s doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and taking off the covers as their bearers passed,</span>
   <span id="f000298">sprinkled incense on their dinners from his torch.</span>
   <span id="f000299">And it was a very uncommon kind of torch,</span>
   <span id="f000300">for once or twice when there were angry words between some dinner-carriers who had jostled each other,</span>
   <span id="f000301">he shed a few drops of water on them from it,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and their good humour was restored directly.</span>
   <span id="f000303">For they said,</span>
   <span id="f000304">it was a shame to quarrel upon Christmas Day.</span>
   <span id="f000305">And so it was!</span>
   <span id="f000306">God love it,</span>
   <span id="f000307">so it was!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">In time the bells ceased,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and the bakers were shut up;</span>
   <span id="f000310">and yet there was a genial shadowing forth of all these dinners and the progress of their cooking,</span>
   <span id="f000311">in the thawed blotch of wet above each baker’s oven;</span>
   <span id="f000312">where the pavement smoked as if its stones were cooking too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“Is there a peculiar flavour in what you sprinkle from your torch?” asked Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“There is.</span>
   <span id="f000315">My own.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“Would it apply to any kind of dinner on this day?” asked Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“To any kindly given.</span>
   <span id="f000318">To a poor one most.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“Why to a poor one most?” asked Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“Because it needs it most.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“Spirit,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000322">after a moment’s thought,</span>
   <span id="f000323">“I wonder you,</span>
   <span id="f000324">of all the beings in the many worlds about us,</span>
   <span id="f000325">should desire to cramp these people’s opportunities of innocent enjoyment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“I!” cried the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“You would deprive them of their means of dining every seventh day,</span>
   <span id="f000328">often the only day on which they can be said to dine at all,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000329">“Wouldn’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“I!” cried the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“You seek to close these places on the Seventh Day?” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000332">“And it comes to the same thing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“I seek!” exclaimed the Spirit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Forgive me if I am wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000335">It has been done in your name,</span>
   <span id="f000336">or at least in that of your family,” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“There are some upon this earth of yours,” returned the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000338">“who lay claim to know us,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and who do their deeds of passion,</span>
   <span id="f000340">pride,</span>
   <span id="f000341">ill-will,</span>
   <span id="f000342">hatred,</span>
   <span id="f000343">envy,</span>
   <span id="f000344">bigotry,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and selfishness in our name,</span>
   <span id="f000346">who are as strange to us and all our kith and kin,</span>
   <span id="f000347">as if they had never lived.</span>
   <span id="f000348">Remember that,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and charge their doings on themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000350">not us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">Scrooge promised that he would;</span>
   <span id="f000352">and they went on,</span>
   <span id="f000353">invisible,</span>
   <span id="f000354">as they had been before,</span>
   <span id="f000355">into the suburbs of the town.</span>
   <span id="f000356">It was a remarkable quality of the Ghost</span>
   <span id="f000357">(which Scrooge had observed at the baker’s),</span>
   <span id="f000358">that notwithstanding his gigantic size,</span>
   <span id="f000359">he could accommodate himself to any place with ease;</span>
   <span id="f000360">and that he stood beneath a low roof quite as gracefully and like a supernatural creature,</span>
   <span id="f000361">as it was possible he could have done in any lofty hall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">And perhaps it was the pleasure the good Spirit had in showing off this power of his,</span>
   <span id="f000363">or else it was his own kind,</span>
   <span id="f000364">generous,</span>
   <span id="f000365">hearty nature,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and his sympathy with all poor men,</span>
   <span id="f000367">that led him straight to Scrooge’s clerk’s;</span>
   <span id="f000368">for there he went,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and took Scrooge with him,</span>
   <span id="f000370">holding to his robe;</span>
   <span id="f000371">and on the threshold of the door the Spirit smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and stopped to bless Bob Cratchit’s dwelling with the sprinkling of his torch.</span>
   <span id="f000373">Think of that!</span>
   <span id="f000374">Bob had but fifteen “Bob” a-week himself;</span>
   <span id="f000375">he pocketed on Saturdays but fifteen copies of his Christian name;</span>
   <span id="f000376">and yet the Ghost of Christmas Present blessed his four-roomed house!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">Then up rose Mrs.&#160;Cratchit,</span>
   <span id="f000378">Cratchit’s wife,</span>
   <span id="f000379">dressed out but poorly in a twice-turned gown,</span>
   <span id="f000380">but brave in ribbons,</span>
   <span id="f000381">which are cheap and make a goodly show for sixpence;</span>
   <span id="f000382">and she laid the cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000383">assisted by Belinda Cratchit,</span>
   <span id="f000384">second of her daughters,</span>
   <span id="f000385">also brave in ribbons;</span>
   <span id="f000386">while Master Peter Cratchit plunged a fork into the saucepan of potatoes,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and getting the corners of his monstrous shirt collar</span>
   <span id="f000388">(Bob’s private property,</span>
   <span id="f000389">conferred upon his son and heir in honour of the day)</span>
   <span id="f000390">into his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000391">rejoiced to find himself so gallantly attired,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and yearned to show his linen in the fashionable Parks.</span>
   <span id="f000393">And now two smaller Cratchits,</span>
   <span id="f000394">boy and girl,</span>
   <span id="f000395">came tearing in,</span>
   <span id="f000396">screaming that outside the baker’s they had smelt the goose,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and known it for their own;</span>
   <span id="f000398">and basking in luxurious thoughts of sage and onion,</span>
   <span id="f000399">these young Cratchits danced about the table,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and exalted Master Peter Cratchit to the skies,</span>
   <span id="f000401">while he</span>
   <span id="f000402">(not proud,</span>
   <span id="f000403">although his collars nearly choked him)</span>
   <span id="f000404">blew the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000405">until the slow potatoes bubbling up,</span>
   <span id="f000406">knocked loudly at the saucepan-lid to be let out and peeled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“What has ever got your precious father then?” said Mrs.&#160;Cratchit.</span>
   <span id="f000408">“And your brother,</span>
   <span id="f000409">Tiny Tim!</span>
   <span id="f000410">And Martha warn’t as late last Christmas Day by half-an-hour?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“Here’s Martha,</span>
   <span id="f000412">mother!” said a girl,</span>
   <span id="f000413">appearing as she spoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“Here’s Martha,</span>
   <span id="f000415">mother!” cried the two young Cratchits.</span>
   <span id="f000416">“Hurrah!</span>
   <span id="f000417">There’s such a goose,</span>
   <span id="f000418">Martha!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000420">bless your heart alive,</span>
   <span id="f000421">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000422">how late you are!” said Mrs.&#160;Cratchit,</span>
   <span id="f000423">kissing her a dozen times,</span>
   <span id="f000424">and taking off her shawl and bonnet for her with officious zeal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“We’d a deal of work to finish up last night,” replied the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000426">“and had to clear away this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000427">mother!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">“Well!</span>
   <span id="f000429">Never mind so long as you are come,” said Mrs.&#160;Cratchit.</span>
   <span id="f000430">“Sit ye down before the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000431">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and have a warm,</span>
   <span id="f000433">Lord bless ye!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000435">no!</span>
   <span id="f000436">There’s father coming,” cried the two young Cratchits,</span>
   <span id="f000437">who were everywhere at once.</span>
   <span id="f000438">“Hide,</span>
   <span id="f000439">Martha,</span>
   <span id="f000440">hide!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">So Martha hid herself,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and in came little Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000443">the father,</span>
   <span id="f000444">with at least three feet of comforter exclusive of the fringe,</span>
   <span id="f000445">hanging down before him;</span>
   <span id="f000446">and his threadbare clothes darned up and brushed,</span>
   <span id="f000447">to look seasonable;</span>
   <span id="f000448">and Tiny Tim upon his shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Alas for Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000450">he bore a little crutch,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and had his limbs supported by an iron frame!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000453">where’s our Martha?” cried Bob Cratchit,</span>
   <span id="f000454">looking round.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">“Not coming,” said Mrs.&#160;Cratchit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“Not coming!” said Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000457">with a sudden declension in his high spirits;</span>
   <span id="f000458">for he had been Tim’s blood horse all the way from church,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and had come home rampant.</span>
   <span id="f000460">“Not coming upon Christmas Day!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">Martha didn’t like to see him disappointed,</span>
   <span id="f000462">if it were only in joke;</span>
   <span id="f000463">so she came out prematurely from behind the closet door,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and ran into his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000465">while the two young Cratchits hustled Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and bore him off into the wash-house,</span>
   <span id="f000467">that he might hear the pudding singing in the copper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“And how did little Tim behave?” asked Mrs.&#160;Cratchit,</span>
   <span id="f000469">when she had rallied Bob on his credulity,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and Bob had hugged his daughter to his heart’s content.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">“As good as gold,” said Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000472">“and better.</span>
   <span id="f000473">Somehow he gets thoughtful,</span>
   <span id="f000474">sitting by himself so much,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and thinks the strangest things you ever heard.</span>
   <span id="f000476">He told me,</span>
   <span id="f000477">coming home,</span>
   <span id="f000478">that he hoped the people saw him in the church,</span>
   <span id="f000479">because he was a cripple,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and it might be pleasant to them to remember upon Christmas Day,</span>
   <span id="f000481">who made lame beggars walk,</span>
   <span id="f000482">and blind men see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">Bob’s voice was tremulous when he told them this,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and trembled more when he said that Tiny Tim was growing strong and hearty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">His active little crutch was heard upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and back came Tiny Tim before another word was spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000487">escorted by his brother and sister to his stool before the fire;</span>
   <span id="f000488">and while Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000489">turning up his cuffs – as if,</span>
   <span id="f000490">poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000491">they were capable of being made more shabby – compounded some hot mixture in a jug with gin and lemons,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and stirred it round and round and put it on the hob to simmer;</span>
   <span id="f000493">Master Peter,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and the two ubiquitous young Cratchits went to fetch the goose,</span>
   <span id="f000495">with which they soon returned in high procession.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">Such a bustle ensued that you might have thought a goose the rarest of all birds;</span>
   <span id="f000497">a feathered phenomenon,</span>
   <span id="f000498">to which a black swan was a matter of course – and in truth it was something very like it in that house.</span>
   <span id="f000499">Mrs.&#160;Cratchit made the gravy</span>
   <span id="f000500">(ready beforehand in a little saucepan)</span>
   <span id="f000501">hissing hot;</span>
   <span id="f000502">Master Peter mashed the potatoes with incredible vigour;</span>
   <span id="f000503">Miss Belinda sweetened up the apple-sauce;</span>
   <span id="f000504">Martha dusted the hot plates;</span>
   <span id="f000505">Bob took Tiny Tim beside him in a tiny corner at the table;</span>
   <span id="f000506">the two young Cratchits set chairs for everybody,</span>
   <span id="f000507">not forgetting themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and mounting guard upon their posts,</span>
   <span id="f000509">crammed spoons into their mouths,</span>
   <span id="f000510">lest they should shriek for goose before their turn came to be helped.</span>
   <span id="f000511">At last the dishes were set on,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and grace was said.</span>
   <span id="f000513">It was succeeded by a breathless pause,</span>
   <span id="f000514">as Mrs.&#160;Cratchit,</span>
   <span id="f000515">looking slowly all along the carving-knife,</span>
   <span id="f000516">prepared to plunge it in the breast;</span>
   <span id="f000517">but when she did,</span>
   <span id="f000518">and when the long expected gush of stuffing issued forth,</span>
   <span id="f000519">one murmur of delight arose all round the board,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and even Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000521">excited by the two young Cratchits,</span>
   <span id="f000522">beat on the table with the handle of his knife,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and feebly cried Hurrah!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">There never was such a goose.</span>
   <span id="f000525">Bob said he didn’t believe there ever was such a goose cooked.</span>
   <span id="f000526">Its tenderness and flavour,</span>
   <span id="f000527">size and cheapness,</span>
   <span id="f000528">were the themes of universal admiration.</span>
   <span id="f000529">Eked out by apple-sauce and mashed potatoes,</span>
   <span id="f000530">it was a sufficient dinner for the whole family;</span>
   <span id="f000531">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000532">as Mrs.&#160;Cratchit said with great delight</span>
   <span id="f000533">(surveying one small atom of a bone upon the dish),</span>
   <span id="f000534">they hadn’t ate it all at last!</span>
   <span id="f000535">Yet every one had had enough,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and the youngest Cratchits in particular,</span>
   <span id="f000537">were steeped in sage and onion to the eyebrows!</span>
   <span id="f000538">But now,</span>
   <span id="f000539">the plates being changed by Miss Belinda,</span>
   <span id="f000540">Mrs.&#160;Cratchit left the room alone – too nervous to bear witnesses – to take the pudding up and bring it in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">Suppose it should not be done enough!</span>
   <span id="f000542">Suppose it should break in turning out!</span>
   <span id="f000543">Suppose somebody should have got over the wall of the back-yard,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and stolen it,</span>
   <span id="f000545">while they were merry with the goose – a supposition at which the two young Cratchits became livid!</span>
   <span id="f000546">All sorts of horrors were supposed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">Hallo!</span>
   <span id="f000548">A great deal of steam!</span>
   <span id="f000549">The pudding was out of the copper.</span>
   <span id="f000550">A smell like a washing-day!</span>
   <span id="f000551">That was the cloth.</span>
   <span id="f000552">A smell like an eating-house and a pastrycook’s next door to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000553">with a laundress’s next door to that!</span>
   <span id="f000554">That was the pudding!</span>
   <span id="f000555">In half a minute Mrs.&#160;Cratchit entered – flushed,</span>
   <span id="f000556">but smiling proudly – with the pudding,</span>
   <span id="f000557">like a speckled cannon-ball,</span>
   <span id="f000558">so hard and firm,</span>
   <span id="f000559">blazing in half of half-a-quartern of ignited brandy,</span>
   <span id="f000560">and bedight with Christmas holly stuck into the top.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000562">a wonderful pudding!</span>
   <span id="f000563">Bob Cratchit said,</span>
   <span id="f000564">and calmly too,</span>
   <span id="f000565">that he regarded it as the greatest success achieved by Mrs.&#160;Cratchit since their marriage.</span>
   <span id="f000566">Mrs.&#160;Cratchit said that now the weight was off her mind,</span>
   <span id="f000567">she would confess she had had her doubts about the quantity of flour.</span>
   <span id="f000568">Everybody had something to say about it,</span>
   <span id="f000569">but nobody said or thought it was at all a small pudding for a large family.</span>
   <span id="f000570">It would have been flat heresy to do so.</span>
   <span id="f000571">Any Cratchit would have blushed to hint at such a thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">At last the dinner was all done,</span>
   <span id="f000573">the cloth was cleared,</span>
   <span id="f000574">the hearth swept,</span>
   <span id="f000575">and the fire made up.</span>
   <span id="f000576">The compound in the jug being tasted,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and considered perfect,</span>
   <span id="f000578">apples and oranges were put upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and a shovel-full of chestnuts on the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000580">Then all the Cratchit family drew round the hearth,</span>
   <span id="f000581">in what Bob Cratchit called a circle,</span>
   <span id="f000582">meaning half a one;</span>
   <span id="f000583">and at Bob Cratchit’s elbow stood the family display of glass.</span>
   <span id="f000584">Two tumblers,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and a custard-cup without a handle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">These held the hot stuff from the jug,</span>
   <span id="f000587">however,</span>
   <span id="f000588">as well as golden goblets would have done;</span>
   <span id="f000589">and Bob served it out with beaming looks,</span>
   <span id="f000590">while the chestnuts on the fire sputtered and cracked noisily.</span>
   <span id="f000591">Then Bob proposed:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“A Merry Christmas to us all,</span>
   <span id="f000593">my dears.</span>
   <span id="f000594">God bless us!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">Which all the family re-echoed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">“God bless us every one!” said Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000597">the last of all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">He sat very close to his father’s side upon his little stool.</span>
   <span id="f000599">Bob held his withered little hand in his,</span>
   <span id="f000600">as if he loved the child,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and wished to keep him by his side,</span>
   <span id="f000602">and dreaded that he might be taken from him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000603">“Spirit,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000604">with an interest he had never felt before,</span>
   <span id="f000605">“tell me if Tiny Tim will live.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">“I see a vacant seat,” replied the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000607">“in the poor chimney-corner,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and a crutch without an owner,</span>
   <span id="f000609">carefully preserved.</span>
   <span id="f000610">If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future,</span>
   <span id="f000611">the child will die.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000613">no,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000614">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000615">no,</span>
   <span id="f000616">kind Spirit!</span>
   <span id="f000617">say he will be spared.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“If these shadows remain unaltered by the Future,</span>
   <span id="f000619">none other of my race,” returned the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000620">“will find him here.</span>
   <span id="f000621">What then?</span>
   <span id="f000622">If he be like to die,</span>
   <span id="f000623">he had better do it,</span>
   <span id="f000624">and decrease the surplus population.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">Scrooge hung his head to hear his own words quoted by the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000626">and was overcome with penitence and grief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">“Man,” said the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000628">“if man you be in heart,</span>
   <span id="f000629">not adamant,</span>
   <span id="f000630">forbear that wicked cant until you have discovered What the surplus is,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and Where it is.</span>
   <span id="f000632">Will you decide what men shall live,</span>
   <span id="f000633">what men shall die?</span>
   <span id="f000634">It may be,</span>
   <span id="f000635">that in the sight of Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000636">you are more worthless and less fit to live than millions like this poor man’s child.</span>
   <span id="f000637">Oh God!</span>
   <span id="f000638">to hear the Insect on the leaf pronouncing on the too much life among his hungry brothers in the dust!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">Scrooge bent before the Ghost’s rebuke,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and trembling cast his eyes upon the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000641">But he raised them speedily,</span>
   <span id="f000642">on hearing his own name.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">“Mr.&#160;Scrooge!” said Bob;</span>
   <span id="f000644">“I’ll give you Mr.&#160;Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000645">the Founder of the Feast!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“The Founder of the Feast indeed!” cried Mrs.&#160;Cratchit,</span>
   <span id="f000647">reddening.</span>
   <span id="f000648">“I wish I had him here.</span>
   <span id="f000649">I’d give him a piece of my mind to feast upon,</span>
   <span id="f000650">and I hope he’d have a good appetite for it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000651">“My dear,” said Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000652">“the children!</span>
   <span id="f000653">Christmas Day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">“It should be Christmas Day,</span>
   <span id="f000655">I am sure,” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000656">“on which one drinks the health of such an odious,</span>
   <span id="f000657">stingy,</span>
   <span id="f000658">hard,</span>
   <span id="f000659">unfeeling man as Mr.&#160;Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000660">You know he is,</span>
   <span id="f000661">Robert!</span>
   <span id="f000662">Nobody knows it better than you do,</span>
   <span id="f000663">poor fellow!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">“My dear,” was Bob’s mild answer,</span>
   <span id="f000665">“Christmas Day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">“I’ll drink his health for your sake and the Day’s,” said Mrs.&#160;Cratchit,</span>
   <span id="f000667">“not for his.</span>
   <span id="f000668">Long life to him!</span>
   <span id="f000669">A merry Christmas and a happy new year!</span>
   <span id="f000670">He’ll be very merry and very happy,</span>
   <span id="f000671">I have no doubt!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">The children drank the toast after her.</span>
   <span id="f000673">It was the first of their proceedings which had no heartiness.</span>
   <span id="f000674">Tiny Tim drank it last of all,</span>
   <span id="f000675">but he didn’t care twopence for it.</span>
   <span id="f000676">Scrooge was the Ogre of the family.</span>
   <span id="f000677">The mention of his name cast a dark shadow on the party,</span>
   <span id="f000678">which was not dispelled for full five minutes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">After it had passed away,</span>
   <span id="f000680">they were ten times merrier than before,</span>
   <span id="f000681">from the mere relief of Scrooge the Baleful being done with.</span>
   <span id="f000682">Bob Cratchit told them how he had a situation in his eye for Master Peter,</span>
   <span id="f000683">which would bring in,</span>
   <span id="f000684">if obtained,</span>
   <span id="f000685">full five-and-sixpence weekly.</span>
   <span id="f000686">The two young Cratchits laughed tremendously at the idea of Peter’s being a man of business;</span>
   <span id="f000687">and Peter himself looked thoughtfully at the fire from between his collars,</span>
   <span id="f000688">as if he were deliberating what particular investments he should favour when he came into the receipt of that bewildering income.</span>
   <span id="f000689">Martha,</span>
   <span id="f000690">who was a poor apprentice at a milliner’s,</span>
   <span id="f000691">then told them what kind of work she had to do,</span>
   <span id="f000692">and how many hours she worked at a stretch,</span>
   <span id="f000693">and how she meant to lie abed to-morrow morning for a good long rest;</span>
   <span id="f000694">to-morrow being a holiday she passed at home.</span>
   <span id="f000695">Also how she had seen a countess and a lord some days before,</span>
   <span id="f000696">and how the lord “was much about as tall as Peter;” at which Peter pulled up his collars so high that you couldn’t have seen his head if you had been there.</span>
   <span id="f000697">All this time the chestnuts and the jug went round and round;</span>
   <span id="f000698">and by-and-bye they had a song,</span>
   <span id="f000699">about a lost child travelling in the snow,</span>
   <span id="f000700">from Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000701">who had a plaintive little voice,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and sang it very well indeed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">There was nothing of high mark in this.</span>
   <span id="f000704">They were not a handsome family;</span>
   <span id="f000705">they were not well dressed;</span>
   <span id="f000706">their shoes were far from being water-proof;</span>
   <span id="f000707">their clothes were scanty;</span>
   <span id="f000708">and Peter might have known,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and very likely did,</span>
   <span id="f000710">the inside of a pawnbroker’s.</span>
   <span id="f000711">But,</span>
   <span id="f000712">they were happy,</span>
   <span id="f000713">grateful,</span>
   <span id="f000714">pleased with one another,</span>
   <span id="f000715">and contented with the time;</span>
   <span id="f000716">and when they faded,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and looked happier yet in the bright sprinklings of the Spirit’s torch at parting,</span>
   <span id="f000718">Scrooge had his eye upon them,</span>
   <span id="f000719">and especially on Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000720">until the last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">By this time it was getting dark,</span>
   <span id="f000722">and snowing pretty heavily;</span>
   <span id="f000723">and as Scrooge and the Spirit went along the streets,</span>
   <span id="f000724">the brightness of the roaring fires in kitchens,</span>
   <span id="f000725">parlours,</span>
   <span id="f000726">and all sorts of rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000727">was wonderful.</span>
   <span id="f000728">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000729">the flickering of the blaze showed preparations for a cosy dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000730">with hot plates baking through and through before the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000731">and deep red curtains,</span>
   <span id="f000732">ready to be drawn to shut out cold and darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000733">There all the children of the house were running out into the snow to meet their married sisters,</span>
   <span id="f000734">brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000735">cousins,</span>
   <span id="f000736">uncles,</span>
   <span id="f000737">aunts,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and be the first to greet them.</span>
   <span id="f000739">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000740">again,</span>
   <span id="f000741">were shadows on the window-blind of guests assembling;</span>
   <span id="f000742">and there a group of handsome girls,</span>
   <span id="f000743">all hooded and fur-booted,</span>
   <span id="f000744">and all chattering at once,</span>
   <span id="f000745">tripped lightly off to some near neighbour’s house;</span>
   <span id="f000746">where,</span>
   <span id="f000747">woe upon the single man who saw them enter – artful witches,</span>
   <span id="f000748">well they knew it – in a glow!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">But,</span>
   <span id="f000750">if you had judged from the numbers of people on their way to friendly gatherings,</span>
   <span id="f000751">you might have thought that no one was at home to give them welcome when they got there,</span>
   <span id="f000752">instead of every house expecting company,</span>
   <span id="f000753">and piling up its fires half-chimney high.</span>
   <span id="f000754">Blessings on it,</span>
   <span id="f000755">how the Ghost exulted!</span>
   <span id="f000756">How it bared its breadth of breast,</span>
   <span id="f000757">and opened its capacious palm,</span>
   <span id="f000758">and floated on,</span>
   <span id="f000759">outpouring,</span>
   <span id="f000760">with a generous hand,</span>
   <span id="f000761">its bright and harmless mirth on everything within its reach!</span>
   <span id="f000762">The very lamplighter,</span>
   <span id="f000763">who ran on before,</span>
   <span id="f000764">dotting the dusky street with specks of light,</span>
   <span id="f000765">and who was dressed to spend the evening somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000766">laughed out loudly as the Spirit passed,</span>
   <span id="f000767">though little kenned the lamplighter that he had any company but Christmas!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000769">without a word of warning from the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000770">they stood upon a bleak and desert moor,</span>
   <span id="f000771">where monstrous masses of rude stone were cast about,</span>
   <span id="f000772">as though it were the burial-place of giants;</span>
   <span id="f000773">and water spread itself wheresoever it listed,</span>
   <span id="f000774">or would have done so,</span>
   <span id="f000775">but for the frost that held it prisoner;</span>
   <span id="f000776">and nothing grew but moss and furze,</span>
   <span id="f000777">and coarse rank grass.</span>
   <span id="f000778">Down in the west the setting sun had left a streak of fiery red,</span>
   <span id="f000779">which glared upon the desolation for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000780">like a sullen eye,</span>
   <span id="f000781">and frowning lower,</span>
   <span id="f000782">lower,</span>
   <span id="f000783">lower yet,</span>
   <span id="f000784">was lost in the thick gloom of darkest night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">“What place is this?” asked Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000786">“A place where Miners live,</span>
   <span id="f000787">who labour in the bowels of the earth,” returned the Spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000788">“But they know me.</span>
   <span id="f000789">See!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000790">A light shone from the window of a hut,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and swiftly they advanced towards it.</span>
   <span id="f000792">Passing through the wall of mud and stone,</span>
   <span id="f000793">they found a cheerful company assembled round a glowing fire.</span>
   <span id="f000794">An old,</span>
   <span id="f000795">old man and woman,</span>
   <span id="f000796">with their children and their children’s children,</span>
   <span id="f000797">and another generation beyond that,</span>
   <span id="f000798">all decked out gaily in their holiday attire.</span>
   <span id="f000799">The old man,</span>
   <span id="f000800">in a voice that seldom rose above the howling of the wind upon the barren waste,</span>
   <span id="f000801">was singing them a Christmas song – it had been a very old song when he was a boy – and from time to time they all joined in the chorus.</span>
   <span id="f000802">So surely as they raised their voices,</span>
   <span id="f000803">the old man got quite blithe and loud;</span>
   <span id="f000804">and so surely as they stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000805">his vigour sank again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">The Spirit did not tarry here,</span>
   <span id="f000807">but bade Scrooge hold his robe,</span>
   <span id="f000808">and passing on above the moor,</span>
   <span id="f000809">sped – whither?</span>
   <span id="f000810">Not to sea?</span>
   <span id="f000811">To sea.</span>
   <span id="f000812">To Scrooge’s horror,</span>
   <span id="f000813">looking back,</span>
   <span id="f000814">he saw the last of the land,</span>
   <span id="f000815">a frightful range of rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000816">behind them;</span>
   <span id="f000817">and his ears were deafened by the thundering of water,</span>
   <span id="f000818">as it rolled and roared,</span>
   <span id="f000819">and raged among the dreadful caverns it had worn,</span>
   <span id="f000820">and fiercely tried to undermine the earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">Built upon a dismal reef of sunken rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000822">some league or so from shore,</span>
   <span id="f000823">on which the waters chafed and dashed,</span>
   <span id="f000824">the wild year through,</span>
   <span id="f000825">there stood a solitary lighthouse.</span>
   <span id="f000826">Great heaps of sea-weed clung to its base,</span>
   <span id="f000827">and storm-birds – born of the wind one might suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000828">as sea-weed of the water – rose and fell about it,</span>
   <span id="f000829">like the waves they skimmed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">But even here,</span>
   <span id="f000831">two men who watched the light had made a fire,</span>
   <span id="f000832">that through the loophole in the thick stone wall shed out a ray of brightness on the awful sea.</span>
   <span id="f000833">Joining their horny hands over the rough table at which they sat,</span>
   <span id="f000834">they wished each other Merry Christmas in their can of grog;</span>
   <span id="f000835">and one of them:</span>
   <span id="f000836">the elder,</span>
   <span id="f000837">too,</span>
   <span id="f000838">with his face all damaged and scarred with hard weather,</span>
   <span id="f000839">as the figure-head of an old ship might be:</span>
   <span id="f000840">struck up a sturdy song that was like a Gale in itself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000841">Again the Ghost sped on,</span>
   <span id="f000842">above the black and heaving sea – on,</span>
   <span id="f000843">on – until,</span>
   <span id="f000844">being far away,</span>
   <span id="f000845">as he told Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000846">from any shore,</span>
   <span id="f000847">they lighted on a ship.</span>
   <span id="f000848">They stood beside the helmsman at the wheel,</span>
   <span id="f000849">the look-out in the bow,</span>
   <span id="f000850">the officers who had the watch;</span>
   <span id="f000851">dark,</span>
   <span id="f000852">ghostly figures in their several stations;</span>
   <span id="f000853">but every man among them hummed a Christmas tune,</span>
   <span id="f000854">or had a Christmas thought,</span>
   <span id="f000855">or spoke below his breath to his companion of some bygone Christmas Day,</span>
   <span id="f000856">with homeward hopes belonging to it.</span>
   <span id="f000857">And every man on board,</span>
   <span id="f000858">waking or sleeping,</span>
   <span id="f000859">good or bad,</span>
   <span id="f000860">had had a kinder word for another on that day than on any day in the year;</span>
   <span id="f000861">and had shared to some extent in its festivities;</span>
   <span id="f000862">and had remembered those he cared for at a distance,</span>
   <span id="f000863">and had known that they delighted to remember him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000864">It was a great surprise to Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000865">while listening to the moaning of the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000866">and thinking what a solemn thing it was to move on through the lonely darkness over an unknown abyss,</span>
   <span id="f000867">whose depths were secrets as profound as Death:</span>
   <span id="f000868">it was a great surprise to Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000869">while thus engaged,</span>
   <span id="f000870">to hear a hearty laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000871">It was a much greater surprise to Scrooge to recognise it as his own nephew’s and to find himself in a bright,</span>
   <span id="f000872">dry,</span>
   <span id="f000873">gleaming room,</span>
   <span id="f000874">with the Spirit standing smiling by his side,</span>
   <span id="f000875">and looking at that same nephew with approving affability!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000876">“Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000877">ha!” laughed Scrooge’s nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000878">“Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000879">ha,</span>
   <span id="f000880">ha!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000881">If you should happen,</span>
   <span id="f000882">by any unlikely chance,</span>
   <span id="f000883">to know a man more blest in a laugh than Scrooge’s nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000884">all I can say is,</span>
   <span id="f000885">I should like to know him too.</span>
   <span id="f000886">Introduce him to me,</span>
   <span id="f000887">and I’ll cultivate his acquaintance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">It is a fair,</span>
   <span id="f000889">even-handed,</span>
   <span id="f000890">noble adjustment of things,</span>
   <span id="f000891">that while there is infection in disease and sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000892">there is nothing in the world so irresistibly contagious as laughter and good-humour.</span>
   <span id="f000893">When Scrooge’s nephew laughed in this way:</span>
   <span id="f000894">holding his sides,</span>
   <span id="f000895">rolling his head,</span>
   <span id="f000896">and twisting his face into the most extravagant contortions:</span>
   <span id="f000897">Scrooge’s niece,</span>
   <span id="f000898">by marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000899">laughed as heartily as he.</span>
   <span id="f000900">And their assembled friends being not a bit behindhand,</span>
   <span id="f000901">roared out lustily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000902">“Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000903">ha!</span>
   <span id="f000904">Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000905">ha,</span>
   <span id="f000906">ha,</span>
   <span id="f000907">ha!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000908">“He said that Christmas was a humbug,</span>
   <span id="f000909">as I live!” cried Scrooge’s nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000910">“He believed it too!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">“More shame for him,</span>
   <span id="f000912">Fred!” said Scrooge’s niece,</span>
   <span id="f000913">indignantly.</span>
   <span id="f000914">Bless those women;</span>
   <span id="f000915">they never do anything by halves.</span>
   <span id="f000916">They are always in earnest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">She was very pretty:</span>
   <span id="f000918">exceedingly pretty.</span>
   <span id="f000919">With a dimpled,</span>
   <span id="f000920">surprised-looking,</span>
   <span id="f000921">capital face;</span>
   <span id="f000922">a ripe little mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000923">that seemed made to be kissed – as no doubt it was;</span>
   <span id="f000924">all kinds of good little dots about her chin,</span>
   <span id="f000925">that melted into one another when she laughed;</span>
   <span id="f000926">and the sunniest pair of eyes you ever saw in any little creature’s head.</span>
   <span id="f000927">Altogether she was what you would have called provoking,</span>
   <span id="f000928">you know;</span>
   <span id="f000929">but satisfactory,</span>
   <span id="f000930">too.</span>
   <span id="f000931">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000932">perfectly satisfactory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000933">“He’s a comical old fellow,” said Scrooge’s nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000934">“that’s the truth:</span>
   <span id="f000935">and not so pleasant as he might be.</span>
   <span id="f000936">However,</span>
   <span id="f000937">his offences carry their own punishment,</span>
   <span id="f000938">and I have nothing to say against him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">“I’m sure he is very rich,</span>
   <span id="f000940">Fred,” hinted Scrooge’s niece.</span>
   <span id="f000941">“At least you always tell me so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">“What of that,</span>
   <span id="f000943">my dear!” said Scrooge’s nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000944">“His wealth is of no use to him.</span>
   <span id="f000945">He don’t do any good with it.</span>
   <span id="f000946">He don’t make himself comfortable with it.</span>
   <span id="f000947">He hasn’t the satisfaction of thinking – ha,</span>
   <span id="f000948">ha,</span>
   <span id="f000949">ha!</span>
   <span id="f000950">– that he is ever going to benefit US with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000951">“I have no patience with him,” observed Scrooge’s niece.</span>
   <span id="f000952">Scrooge’s niece’s sisters,</span>
   <span id="f000953">and all the other ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000954">expressed the same opinion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000955">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000956">I have!” said Scrooge’s nephew.</span>
   <span id="f000957">“I am sorry for him;</span>
   <span id="f000958">I couldn’t be angry with him if I tried.</span>
   <span id="f000959">Who suffers by his ill whims!</span>
   <span id="f000960">Himself,</span>
   <span id="f000961">always.</span>
   <span id="f000962">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000963">he takes it into his head to dislike us,</span>
   <span id="f000964">and he won’t come and dine with us.</span>
   <span id="f000965">What’s the consequence?</span>
   <span id="f000966">He don’t lose much of a dinner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000967">“Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000968">I think he loses a very good dinner,” interrupted Scrooge’s niece.</span>
   <span id="f000969">Everybody else said the same,</span>
   <span id="f000970">and they must be allowed to have been competent judges,</span>
   <span id="f000971">because they had just had dinner;</span>
   <span id="f000972">and,</span>
   <span id="f000973">with the dessert upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000974">were clustered round the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000975">by lamplight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000976">“Well!</span>
   <span id="f000977">I’m very glad to hear it,” said Scrooge’s nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000978">“because I haven’t great faith in these young housekeepers.</span>
   <span id="f000979">What do you say,</span>
   <span id="f000980">Topper?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">Topper had clearly got his eye upon one of Scrooge’s niece’s sisters,</span>
   <span id="f000982">for he answered that a bachelor was a wretched outcast,</span>
   <span id="f000983">who had no right to express an opinion on the subject.</span>
   <span id="f000984">Whereat Scrooge’s niece’s sister – the plump one with the lace tucker:</span>
   <span id="f000985">not the one with the roses – blushed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000986">“Do go on,</span>
   <span id="f000987">Fred,” said Scrooge’s niece,</span>
   <span id="f000988">clapping her hands.</span>
   <span id="f000989">“He never finishes what he begins to say!</span>
   <span id="f000990">He is such a ridiculous fellow!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000991">Scrooge’s nephew revelled in another laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000992">and as it was impossible to keep the infection off;</span>
   <span id="f000993">though the plump sister tried hard to do it with aromatic vinegar;</span>
   <span id="f000994">his example was unanimously followed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000995">“I was only going to say,” said Scrooge’s nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000996">“that the consequence of his taking a dislike to us,</span>
   <span id="f000997">and not making merry with us,</span>
   <span id="f000998">is,</span>
   <span id="f000999">as I think,</span>
   <span id="f001000">that he loses some pleasant moments,</span>
   <span id="f001001">which could do him no harm.</span>
   <span id="f001002">I am sure he loses pleasanter companions than he can find in his own thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f001003">either in his mouldy old office,</span>
   <span id="f001004">or his dusty chambers.</span>
   <span id="f001005">I mean to give him the same chance every year,</span>
   <span id="f001006">whether he likes it or not,</span>
   <span id="f001007">for I pity him.</span>
   <span id="f001008">He may rail at Christmas till he dies,</span>
   <span id="f001009">but he can’t help thinking better of it – I defy him – if he finds me going there,</span>
   <span id="f001010">in good temper,</span>
   <span id="f001011">year after year,</span>
   <span id="f001012">and saying Uncle Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f001013">how are you?</span>
   <span id="f001014">If it only puts him in the vein to leave his poor clerk fifty pounds,</span>
   <span id="f001015">that’s something;</span>
   <span id="f001016">and I think I shook him yesterday.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001017">It was their turn to laugh now at the notion of his shaking Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f001018">But being thoroughly good-natured,</span>
   <span id="f001019">and not much caring what they laughed at,</span>
   <span id="f001020">so that they laughed at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f001021">he encouraged them in their merriment,</span>
   <span id="f001022">and passed the bottle joyously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001023">After tea,</span>
   <span id="f001024">they had some music.</span>
   <span id="f001025">For they were a musical family,</span>
   <span id="f001026">and knew what they were about,</span>
   <span id="f001027">when they sung a Glee or Catch,</span>
   <span id="f001028">I can assure you:</span>
   <span id="f001029">especially Topper,</span>
   <span id="f001030">who could growl away in the bass like a good one,</span>
   <span id="f001031">and never swell the large veins in his forehead,</span>
   <span id="f001032">or get red in the face over it.</span>
   <span id="f001033">Scrooge’s niece played well upon the harp;</span>
   <span id="f001034">and played among other tunes a simple little air</span>
   <span id="f001035">(a mere nothing:</span>
   <span id="f001036">you might learn to whistle it in two minutes),</span>
   <span id="f001037">which had been familiar to the child who fetched Scrooge from the boarding-school,</span>
   <span id="f001038">as he had been reminded by the Ghost of Christmas Past.</span>
   <span id="f001039">When this strain of music sounded,</span>
   <span id="f001040">all the things that Ghost had shown him,</span>
   <span id="f001041">came upon his mind;</span>
   <span id="f001042">he softened more and more;</span>
   <span id="f001043">and thought that if he could have listened to it often,</span>
   <span id="f001044">years ago,</span>
   <span id="f001045">he might have cultivated the kindnesses of life for his own happiness with his own hands,</span>
   <span id="f001046">without resorting to the sexton’s spade that buried Jacob Marley.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001047">But they didn’t devote the whole evening to music.</span>
   <span id="f001048">After a while they played at forfeits;</span>
   <span id="f001049">for it is good to be children sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f001050">and never better than at Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f001051">when its mighty Founder was a child himself.</span>
   <span id="f001052">Stop!</span>
   <span id="f001053">There was first a game at blind-man’s buff.</span>
   <span id="f001054">Of course there was.</span>
   <span id="f001055">And I no more believe Topper was really blind than I believe he had eyes in his boots.</span>
   <span id="f001056">My opinion is,</span>
   <span id="f001057">that it was a done thing between him and Scrooge’s nephew;</span>
   <span id="f001058">and that the Ghost of Christmas Present knew it.</span>
   <span id="f001059">The way he went after that plump sister in the lace tucker,</span>
   <span id="f001060">was an outrage on the credulity of human nature.</span>
   <span id="f001061">Knocking down the fire-irons,</span>
   <span id="f001062">tumbling over the chairs,</span>
   <span id="f001063">bumping against the piano,</span>
   <span id="f001064">smothering himself among the curtains,</span>
   <span id="f001065">wherever she went,</span>
   <span id="f001066">there went he!</span>
   <span id="f001067">He always knew where the plump sister was.</span>
   <span id="f001068">He wouldn’t catch anybody else.</span>
   <span id="f001069">If you had fallen up against him</span>
   <span id="f001070">(as some of them did),</span>
   <span id="f001071">on purpose,</span>
   <span id="f001072">he would have made a feint of endeavouring to seize you,</span>
   <span id="f001073">which would have been an affront to your understanding,</span>
   <span id="f001074">and would instantly have sidled off in the direction of the plump sister.</span>
   <span id="f001075">She often cried out that it wasn’t fair;</span>
   <span id="f001076">and it really was not.</span>
   <span id="f001077">But when at last,</span>
   <span id="f001078">he caught her;</span>
   <span id="f001079">when,</span>
   <span id="f001080">in spite of all her silken rustlings,</span>
   <span id="f001081">and her rapid flutterings past him,</span>
   <span id="f001082">he got her into a corner whence there was no escape;</span>
   <span id="f001083">then his conduct was the most execrable.</span>
   <span id="f001084">For his pretending not to know her;</span>
   <span id="f001085">his pretending that it was necessary to touch her head-dress,</span>
   <span id="f001086">and further to assure himself of her identity by pressing a certain ring upon her finger,</span>
   <span id="f001087">and a certain chain about her neck;</span>
   <span id="f001088">was vile,</span>
   <span id="f001089">monstrous!</span>
   <span id="f001090">No doubt she told him her opinion of it,</span>
   <span id="f001091">when,</span>
   <span id="f001092">another blind-man being in office,</span>
   <span id="f001093">they were so very confidential together,</span>
   <span id="f001094">behind the curtains.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001095">Scrooge’s niece was not one of the blind-man’s buff party,</span>
   <span id="f001096">but was made comfortable with a large chair and a footstool,</span>
   <span id="f001097">in a snug corner,</span>
   <span id="f001098">where the Ghost and Scrooge were close behind her.</span>
   <span id="f001099">But she joined in the forfeits,</span>
   <span id="f001100">and loved her love to admiration with all the letters of the alphabet.</span>
   <span id="f001101">Likewise at the game of How,</span>
   <span id="f001102">When,</span>
   <span id="f001103">and Where,</span>
   <span id="f001104">she was very great,</span>
   <span id="f001105">and to the secret joy of Scrooge’s nephew,</span>
   <span id="f001106">beat her sisters hollow:</span>
   <span id="f001107">though they were sharp girls too,</span>
   <span id="f001108">as Topper could have told you.</span>
   <span id="f001109">There might have been twenty people there,</span>
   <span id="f001110">young and old,</span>
   <span id="f001111">but they all played,</span>
   <span id="f001112">and so did Scrooge;</span>
   <span id="f001113">for wholly forgetting in the interest he had in what was going on,</span>
   <span id="f001114">that his voice made no sound in their ears,</span>
   <span id="f001115">he sometimes came out with his guess quite loud,</span>
   <span id="f001116">and very often guessed quite right,</span>
   <span id="f001117">too;</span>
   <span id="f001118">for the sharpest needle,</span>
   <span id="f001119">best Whitechapel,</span>
   <span id="f001120">warranted not to cut in the eye,</span>
   <span id="f001121">was not sharper than Scrooge;</span>
   <span id="f001122">blunt as he took it in his head to be.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001123">The Ghost was greatly pleased to find him in this mood,</span>
   <span id="f001124">and looked upon him with such favour,</span>
   <span id="f001125">that he begged like a boy to be allowed to stay until the guests departed.</span>
   <span id="f001126">But this the Spirit said could not be done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001127">“Here is a new game,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f001128">“One half hour,</span>
   <span id="f001129">Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f001130">only one!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001131">It was a Game called Yes and No,</span>
   <span id="f001132">where Scrooge’s nephew had to think of something,</span>
   <span id="f001133">and the rest must find out what;</span>
   <span id="f001134">he only answering to their questions yes or no,</span>
   <span id="f001135">as the case was.</span>
   <span id="f001136">The brisk fire of questioning to which he was exposed,</span>
   <span id="f001137">elicited from him that he was thinking of an animal,</span>
   <span id="f001138">a live animal,</span>
   <span id="f001139">rather a disagreeable animal,</span>
   <span id="f001140">a savage animal,</span>
   <span id="f001141">an animal that growled and grunted sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f001142">and talked sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f001143">and lived in London,</span>
   <span id="f001144">and walked about the streets,</span>
   <span id="f001145">and wasn’t made a show of,</span>
   <span id="f001146">and wasn’t led by anybody,</span>
   <span id="f001147">and didn’t live in a menagerie,</span>
   <span id="f001148">and was never killed in a market,</span>
   <span id="f001149">and was not a horse,</span>
   <span id="f001150">or an ass,</span>
   <span id="f001151">or a cow,</span>
   <span id="f001152">or a bull,</span>
   <span id="f001153">or a tiger,</span>
   <span id="f001154">or a dog,</span>
   <span id="f001155">or a pig,</span>
   <span id="f001156">or a cat,</span>
   <span id="f001157">or a bear.</span>
   <span id="f001158">At every fresh question that was put to him,</span>
   <span id="f001159">this nephew burst into a fresh roar of laughter;</span>
   <span id="f001160">and was so inexpressibly tickled,</span>
   <span id="f001161">that he was obliged to get up off the sofa and stamp.</span>
   <span id="f001162">At last the plump sister,</span>
   <span id="f001163">falling into a similar state,</span>
   <span id="f001164">cried out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001165">“I have found it out!</span>
   <span id="f001166">I know what it is,</span>
   <span id="f001167">Fred!</span>
   <span id="f001168">I know what it is!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001169">“What is it?” cried Fred.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001170">“It’s your Uncle Scro-o-o-o-oge!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001171">Which it certainly was.</span>
   <span id="f001172">Admiration was the universal sentiment,</span>
   <span id="f001173">though some objected that the reply to “Is it a bear?” ought to have been “Yes;” inasmuch as an answer in the negative was sufficient to have diverted their thoughts from Mr.&#160;Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f001174">supposing they had ever had any tendency that way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001175">“He has given us plenty of merriment,</span>
   <span id="f001176">I am sure,” said Fred,</span>
   <span id="f001177">“and it would be ungrateful not to drink his health.</span>
   <span id="f001178">Here is a glass of mulled wine ready to our hand at the moment;</span>
   <span id="f001179">and I say,</span>
   <span id="f001180">’Uncle Scrooge!’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001181">“Well!</span>
   <span id="f001182">Uncle Scrooge!” they cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001183">“A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to the old man,</span>
   <span id="f001184">whatever he is!” said Scrooge’s nephew.</span>
   <span id="f001185">“He wouldn’t take it from me,</span>
   <span id="f001186">but may he have it,</span>
   <span id="f001187">nevertheless.</span>
   <span id="f001188">Uncle Scrooge!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001189">Uncle Scrooge had imperceptibly become so gay and light of heart,</span>
   <span id="f001190">that he would have pledged the unconscious company in return,</span>
   <span id="f001191">and thanked them in an inaudible speech,</span>
   <span id="f001192">if the Ghost had given him time.</span>
   <span id="f001193">But the whole scene passed off in the breath of the last word spoken by his nephew;</span>
   <span id="f001194">and he and the Spirit were again upon their travels.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001195">Much they saw,</span>
   <span id="f001196">and far they went,</span>
   <span id="f001197">and many homes they visited,</span>
   <span id="f001198">but always with a happy end.</span>
   <span id="f001199">The Spirit stood beside sick beds,</span>
   <span id="f001200">and they were cheerful;</span>
   <span id="f001201">on foreign lands,</span>
   <span id="f001202">and they were close at home;</span>
   <span id="f001203">by struggling men,</span>
   <span id="f001204">and they were patient in their greater hope;</span>
   <span id="f001205">by poverty,</span>
   <span id="f001206">and it was rich.</span>
   <span id="f001207">In almshouse,</span>
   <span id="f001208">hospital,</span>
   <span id="f001209">and jail,</span>
   <span id="f001210">in misery’s every refuge,</span>
   <span id="f001211">where vain man in his little brief authority had not made fast the door,</span>
   <span id="f001212">and barred the Spirit out,</span>
   <span id="f001213">he left his blessing,</span>
   <span id="f001214">and taught Scrooge his precepts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001215">It was a long night,</span>
   <span id="f001216">if it were only a night;</span>
   <span id="f001217">but Scrooge had his doubts of this,</span>
   <span id="f001218">because the Christmas Holidays appeared to be condensed into the space of time they passed together.</span>
   <span id="f001219">It was strange,</span>
   <span id="f001220">too,</span>
   <span id="f001221">that while Scrooge remained unaltered in his outward form,</span>
   <span id="f001222">the Ghost grew older,</span>
   <span id="f001223">clearly older.</span>
   <span id="f001224">Scrooge had observed this change,</span>
   <span id="f001225">but never spoke of it,</span>
   <span id="f001226">until they left a children’s Twelfth Night party,</span>
   <span id="f001227">when,</span>
   <span id="f001228">looking at the Spirit as they stood together in an open place,</span>
   <span id="f001229">he noticed that its hair was grey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001230">“Are spirits’ lives so short?” asked Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001231">“My life upon this globe,</span>
   <span id="f001232">is very brief,” replied the Ghost.</span>
   <span id="f001233">“It ends to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001234">“To-night!” cried Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001235">“To-night at midnight.</span>
   <span id="f001236">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f001237">The time is drawing near.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001238">The chimes were ringing the three quarters past eleven at that moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001239">“Forgive me if I am not justified in what I ask,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f001240">looking intently at the Spirit’s robe,</span>
   <span id="f001241">“but I see something strange,</span>
   <span id="f001242">and not belonging to yourself,</span>
   <span id="f001243">protruding from your skirts.</span>
   <span id="f001244">Is it a foot or a claw?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001245">“It might be a claw,</span>
   <span id="f001246">for the flesh there is upon it,” was the Spirit’s sorrowful reply.</span>
   <span id="f001247">“Look here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001248">From the foldings of its robe,</span>
   <span id="f001249">it brought two children;</span>
   <span id="f001250">wretched,</span>
   <span id="f001251">abject,</span>
   <span id="f001252">frightful,</span>
   <span id="f001253">hideous,</span>
   <span id="f001254">miserable.</span>
   <span id="f001255">They knelt down at its feet,</span>
   <span id="f001256">and clung upon the outside of its garment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001257">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001258">Man!</span>
   <span id="f001259">look here.</span>
   <span id="f001260">Look,</span>
   <span id="f001261">look,</span>
   <span id="f001262">down here!” exclaimed the Ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001263">They were a boy and girl.</span>
   <span id="f001264">Yellow,</span>
   <span id="f001265">meagre,</span>
   <span id="f001266">ragged,</span>
   <span id="f001267">scowling,</span>
   <span id="f001268">wolfish;</span>
   <span id="f001269">but prostrate,</span>
   <span id="f001270">too,</span>
   <span id="f001271">in their humility.</span>
   <span id="f001272">Where graceful youth should have filled their features out,</span>
   <span id="f001273">and touched them with its freshest tints,</span>
   <span id="f001274">a stale and shrivelled hand,</span>
   <span id="f001275">like that of age,</span>
   <span id="f001276">had pinched,</span>
   <span id="f001277">and twisted them,</span>
   <span id="f001278">and pulled them into shreds.</span>
   <span id="f001279">Where angels might have sat enthroned,</span>
   <span id="f001280">devils lurked,</span>
   <span id="f001281">and glared out menacing.</span>
   <span id="f001282">No change,</span>
   <span id="f001283">no degradation,</span>
   <span id="f001284">no perversion of humanity,</span>
   <span id="f001285">in any grade,</span>
   <span id="f001286">through all the mysteries of wonderful creation,</span>
   <span id="f001287">has monsters half so horrible and dread.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001288">Scrooge started back,</span>
   <span id="f001289">appalled.</span>
   <span id="f001290">Having them shown to him in this way,</span>
   <span id="f001291">he tried to say they were fine children,</span>
   <span id="f001292">but the words choked themselves,</span>
   <span id="f001293">rather than be parties to a lie of such enormous magnitude.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001294">“Spirit!</span>
   <span id="f001295">are they yours?” Scrooge could say no more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001296">“They are Man’s,” said the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f001297">looking down upon them.</span>
   <span id="f001298">“And they cling to me,</span>
   <span id="f001299">appealing from their fathers.</span>
   <span id="f001300">This boy is Ignorance.</span>
   <span id="f001301">This girl is Want.</span>
   <span id="f001302">Beware them both,</span>
   <span id="f001303">and all of their degree,</span>
   <span id="f001304">but most of all beware this boy,</span>
   <span id="f001305">for on his brow I see that written which is Doom,</span>
   <span id="f001306">unless the writing be erased.</span>
   <span id="f001307">Deny it!” cried the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f001308">stretching out its hand towards the city.</span>
   <span id="f001309">“Slander those who tell it ye!</span>
   <span id="f001310">Admit it for your factious purposes,</span>
   <span id="f001311">and make it worse.</span>
   <span id="f001312">And bide the end!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001313">“Have they no refuge or resource?” cried Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001314">“Are there no prisons?” said the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f001315">turning on him for the last time with his own words.</span>
   <span id="f001316">“Are there no workhouses?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001317">The bell struck twelve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001318">Scrooge looked about him for the Ghost,</span>
   <span id="f001319">and saw it not.</span>
   <span id="f001320">As the last stroke ceased to vibrate,</span>
   <span id="f001321">he remembered the prediction of old Jacob Marley,</span>
   <span id="f001322">and lifting up his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f001323">beheld a solemn Phantom,</span>
   <span id="f001324">draped and hooded,</span>
   <span id="f001325">coming,</span>
   <span id="f001326">like a mist along the ground,</span>
   <span id="f001327">towards him.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

