<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter IV<br />The Last Of The Spirits</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">The Phantom slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000003">gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000004">silently,</span>
   <span id="f000005">approached.</span>
   <span id="f000006">When it came near him,</span>
   <span id="f000007">Scrooge bent down upon his knee;</span>
   <span id="f000008">for in the very air through which this Spirit moved it seemed to scatter gloom and mystery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000009">It was shrouded in a deep black garment,</span>
   <span id="f000010">which concealed its head,</span>
   <span id="f000011">its face,</span>
   <span id="f000012">its form,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and left nothing of it visible save one outstretched hand.</span>
   <span id="f000014">But for this it would have been difficult to detach its figure from the night,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and separate it from the darkness by which it was surrounded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">He felt that it was tall and stately when it came beside him,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and that its mysterious presence filled him with a solemn dread.</span>
   <span id="f000018">He knew no more,</span>
   <span id="f000019">for the Spirit neither spoke nor moved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">“I am in the presence of the Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come?” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">The Spirit answered not,</span>
   <span id="f000022">but pointed onward with its hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">“You are about to show me shadows of the things that have not happened,</span>
   <span id="f000024">but will happen in the time before us,” Scrooge pursued.</span>
   <span id="f000025">“Is that so,</span>
   <span id="f000026">Spirit?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">The upper portion of the garment was contracted for an instant in its folds,</span>
   <span id="f000028">as if the Spirit had inclined its head.</span>
   <span id="f000029">That was the only answer he received.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">Although well used to ghostly company by this time,</span>
   <span id="f000031">Scrooge feared the silent shape so much that his legs trembled beneath him,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and he found that he could hardly stand when he prepared to follow it.</span>
   <span id="f000033">The Spirit paused a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000034">as observing his condition,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and giving him time to recover.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">But Scrooge was all the worse for this.</span>
   <span id="f000037">It thrilled him with a vague uncertain horror,</span>
   <span id="f000038">to know that behind the dusky shroud,</span>
   <span id="f000039">there were ghostly eyes intently fixed upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000040">while he,</span>
   <span id="f000041">though he stretched his own to the utmost,</span>
   <span id="f000042">could see nothing but a spectral hand and one great heap of black.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“Ghost of the Future!” he exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000044">“I fear you more than any spectre I have seen.</span>
   <span id="f000045">But as I know your purpose is to do me good,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and as I hope to live to be another man from what I was,</span>
   <span id="f000047">I am prepared to bear you company,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and do it with a thankful heart.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Will you not speak to me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">It gave him no reply.</span>
   <span id="f000051">The hand was pointed straight before them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“Lead on!” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“Lead on!</span>
   <span id="f000054">The night is waning fast,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and it is precious time to me,</span>
   <span id="f000056">I know.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Lead on,</span>
   <span id="f000058">Spirit!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">The Phantom moved away as it had come towards him.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Scrooge followed in the shadow of its dress,</span>
   <span id="f000061">which bore him up,</span>
   <span id="f000062">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and carried him along.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">They scarcely seemed to enter the city;</span>
   <span id="f000065">for the city rather seemed to spring up about them,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and encompass them of its own act.</span>
   <span id="f000067">But there they were,</span>
   <span id="f000068">in the heart of it;</span>
   <span id="f000069">on ’Change,</span>
   <span id="f000070">amongst the merchants;</span>
   <span id="f000071">who hurried up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and chinked the money in their pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and conversed in groups,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and looked at their watches,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and trifled thoughtfully with their great gold seals;</span>
   <span id="f000076">and so forth,</span>
   <span id="f000077">as Scrooge had seen them often.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">The Spirit stopped beside one little knot of business men.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Observing that the hand was pointed to them,</span>
   <span id="f000080">Scrooge advanced to listen to their talk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“No,” said a great fat man with a monstrous chin,</span>
   <span id="f000082">“I don’t know much about it,</span>
   <span id="f000083">either way.</span>
   <span id="f000084">I only know he’s dead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“When did he die?” inquired another.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“Last night,</span>
   <span id="f000087">I believe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000089">what was the matter with him?” asked a third,</span>
   <span id="f000090">taking a vast quantity of snuff out of a very large snuff-box.</span>
   <span id="f000091">“I thought he’d never die.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“God knows,” said the first,</span>
   <span id="f000093">with a yawn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“What has he done with his money?” asked a red-faced gentleman with a pendulous excrescence on the end of his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000095">that shook like the gills of a turkey-cock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“I haven’t heard,” said the man with the large chin,</span>
   <span id="f000097">yawning again.</span>
   <span id="f000098">“Left it to his company,</span>
   <span id="f000099">perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000100">He hasn’t left it to me.</span>
   <span id="f000101">That’s all I know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">This pleasantry was received with a general laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“It’s likely to be a very cheap funeral,” said the same speaker;</span>
   <span id="f000104">“for upon my life I don’t know of anybody to go to it.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Suppose we make up a party and volunteer?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“I don’t mind going if a lunch is provided,” observed the gentleman with the excrescence on his nose.</span>
   <span id="f000107">“But I must be fed,</span>
   <span id="f000108">if I make one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">Another laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000111">I am the most disinterested among you,</span>
   <span id="f000112">after all,” said the first speaker,</span>
   <span id="f000113">“for I never wear black gloves,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and I never eat lunch.</span>
   <span id="f000115">But I’ll offer to go,</span>
   <span id="f000116">if anybody else will.</span>
   <span id="f000117">When I come to think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000118">I’m not at all sure that I wasn’t his most particular friend;</span>
   <span id="f000119">for we used to stop and speak whenever we met.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Bye,</span>
   <span id="f000121">bye!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">Speakers and listeners strolled away,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and mixed with other groups.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Scrooge knew the men,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and looked towards the Spirit for an explanation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">The Phantom glided on into a street.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Its finger pointed to two persons meeting.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Scrooge listened again,</span>
   <span id="f000129">thinking that the explanation might lie here.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">He knew these men,</span>
   <span id="f000131">also,</span>
   <span id="f000132">perfectly.</span>
   <span id="f000133">They were men of business:</span>
   <span id="f000134">very wealthy,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and of great importance.</span>
   <span id="f000136">He had made a point always of standing well in their esteem:</span>
   <span id="f000137">in a business point of view,</span>
   <span id="f000138">that is;</span>
   <span id="f000139">strictly in a business point of view.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“How are you?” said one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“How are you?” returned the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“Well!” said the first.</span>
   <span id="f000143">“Old Scratch has got his own at last,</span>
   <span id="f000144">hey?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">“So I am told,” returned the second.</span>
   <span id="f000146">“Cold,</span>
   <span id="f000147">isn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“Seasonable for Christmas time.</span>
   <span id="f000149">You’re not a skater,</span>
   <span id="f000150">I suppose?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000152">No.</span>
   <span id="f000153">Something else to think of.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Good morning!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">Not another word.</span>
   <span id="f000156">That was their meeting,</span>
   <span id="f000157">their conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and their parting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">Scrooge was at first inclined to be surprised that the Spirit should attach importance to conversations apparently so trivial;</span>
   <span id="f000160">but feeling assured that they must have some hidden purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000161">he set himself to consider what it was likely to be.</span>
   <span id="f000162">They could scarcely be supposed to have any bearing on the death of Jacob,</span>
   <span id="f000163">his old partner,</span>
   <span id="f000164">for that was Past,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and this Ghost’s province was the Future.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Nor could he think of any one immediately connected with himself,</span>
   <span id="f000167">to whom he could apply them.</span>
   <span id="f000168">But nothing doubting that to whomsoever they applied they had some latent moral for his own improvement,</span>
   <span id="f000169">he resolved to treasure up every word he heard,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and everything he saw;</span>
   <span id="f000171">and especially to observe the shadow of himself when it appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000172">For he had an expectation that the conduct of his future self would give him the clue he missed,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and would render the solution of these riddles easy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">He looked about in that very place for his own image;</span>
   <span id="f000175">but another man stood in his accustomed corner,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and though the clock pointed to his usual time of day for being there,</span>
   <span id="f000177">he saw no likeness of himself among the multitudes that poured in through the Porch.</span>
   <span id="f000178">It gave him little surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000179">however;</span>
   <span id="f000180">for he had been revolving in his mind a change of life,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and thought and hoped he saw his new-born resolutions carried out in this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">Quiet and dark,</span>
   <span id="f000183">beside him stood the Phantom,</span>
   <span id="f000184">with its outstretched hand.</span>
   <span id="f000185">When he roused himself from his thoughtful quest,</span>
   <span id="f000186">he fancied from the turn of the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and its situation in reference to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000188">that the Unseen Eyes were looking at him keenly.</span>
   <span id="f000189">It made him shudder,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and feel very cold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">They left the busy scene,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and went into an obscure part of the town,</span>
   <span id="f000193">where Scrooge had never penetrated before,</span>
   <span id="f000194">although he recognised its situation,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and its bad repute.</span>
   <span id="f000196">The ways were foul and narrow;</span>
   <span id="f000197">the shops and houses wretched;</span>
   <span id="f000198">the people half-naked,</span>
   <span id="f000199">drunken,</span>
   <span id="f000200">slipshod,</span>
   <span id="f000201">ugly.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Alleys and archways,</span>
   <span id="f000203">like so many cesspools,</span>
   <span id="f000204">disgorged their offences of smell,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and dirt,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and life,</span>
   <span id="f000207">upon the straggling streets;</span>
   <span id="f000208">and the whole quarter reeked with crime,</span>
   <span id="f000209">with filth,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and misery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">Far in this den of infamous resort,</span>
   <span id="f000212">there was a low-browed,</span>
   <span id="f000213">beetling shop,</span>
   <span id="f000214">below a pent-house roof,</span>
   <span id="f000215">where iron,</span>
   <span id="f000216">old rags,</span>
   <span id="f000217">bottles,</span>
   <span id="f000218">bones,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and greasy offal,</span>
   <span id="f000220">were bought.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Upon the floor within,</span>
   <span id="f000222">were piled up heaps of rusty keys,</span>
   <span id="f000223">nails,</span>
   <span id="f000224">chains,</span>
   <span id="f000225">hinges,</span>
   <span id="f000226">files,</span>
   <span id="f000227">scales,</span>
   <span id="f000228">weights,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and refuse iron of all kinds.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Secrets that few would like to scrutinise were bred and hidden in mountains of unseemly rags,</span>
   <span id="f000231">masses of corrupted fat,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and sepulchres of bones.</span>
   <span id="f000233">Sitting in among the wares he dealt in,</span>
   <span id="f000234">by a charcoal stove,</span>
   <span id="f000235">made of old bricks,</span>
   <span id="f000236">was a grey-haired rascal,</span>
   <span id="f000237">nearly seventy years of age;</span>
   <span id="f000238">who had screened himself from the cold air without,</span>
   <span id="f000239">by a frousy curtaining of miscellaneous tatters,</span>
   <span id="f000240">hung upon a line;</span>
   <span id="f000241">and smoked his pipe in all the luxury of calm retirement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">Scrooge and the Phantom came into the presence of this man,</span>
   <span id="f000243">just as a woman with a heavy bundle slunk into the shop.</span>
   <span id="f000244">But she had scarcely entered,</span>
   <span id="f000245">when another woman,</span>
   <span id="f000246">similarly laden,</span>
   <span id="f000247">came in too;</span>
   <span id="f000248">and she was closely followed by a man in faded black,</span>
   <span id="f000249">who was no less startled by the sight of them,</span>
   <span id="f000250">than they had been upon the recognition of each other.</span>
   <span id="f000251">After a short period of blank astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f000252">in which the old man with the pipe had joined them,</span>
   <span id="f000253">they all three burst into a laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“Let the charwoman alone to be the first!” cried she who had entered first.</span>
   <span id="f000255">“Let the laundress alone to be the second;</span>
   <span id="f000256">and let the undertaker’s man alone to be the third.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Look here,</span>
   <span id="f000258">old Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000259">here’s a chance!</span>
   <span id="f000260">If we haven’t all three met here without meaning it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“You couldn’t have met in a better place,” said old Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000262">removing his pipe from his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000263">“Come into the parlour.</span>
   <span id="f000264">You were made free of it long ago,</span>
   <span id="f000265">you know;</span>
   <span id="f000266">and the other two an’t strangers.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Stop till I shut the door of the shop.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000269">How it skreeks!</span>
   <span id="f000270">There an’t such a rusty bit of metal in the place as its own hinges,</span>
   <span id="f000271">I believe;</span>
   <span id="f000272">and I’m sure there’s no such old bones here,</span>
   <span id="f000273">as mine.</span>
   <span id="f000274">Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000275">ha!</span>
   <span id="f000276">We’re all suitable to our calling,</span>
   <span id="f000277">we’re well matched.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Come into the parlour.</span>
   <span id="f000279">Come into the parlour.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">The parlour was the space behind the screen of rags.</span>
   <span id="f000281">The old man raked the fire together with an old stair-rod,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and having trimmed his smoky lamp</span>
   <span id="f000283">(for it was night),</span>
   <span id="f000284">with the stem of his pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000285">put it in his mouth again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">While he did this,</span>
   <span id="f000287">the woman who had already spoken threw her bundle on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and sat down in a flaunting manner on a stool;</span>
   <span id="f000289">crossing her elbows on her knees,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and looking with a bold defiance at the other two.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“What odds then!</span>
   <span id="f000292">What odds,</span>
   <span id="f000293">Mrs.&#160;Dilber?” said the woman.</span>
   <span id="f000294">“Every person has a right to take care of themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000295">He always did.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“That’s true,</span>
   <span id="f000297">indeed!” said the laundress.</span>
   <span id="f000298">“No man more so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“Why then,</span>
   <span id="f000300">don’t stand staring as if you was afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000301">woman;</span>
   <span id="f000302">who’s the wiser?</span>
   <span id="f000303">We’re not going to pick holes in each other’s coats,</span>
   <span id="f000304">I suppose?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000306">indeed!” said Mrs.&#160;Dilber and the man together.</span>
   <span id="f000307">“We should hope not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000309">then!” cried the woman.</span>
   <span id="f000310">“That’s enough.</span>
   <span id="f000311">Who’s the worse for the loss of a few things like these?</span>
   <span id="f000312">Not a dead man,</span>
   <span id="f000313">I suppose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000315">indeed,” said Mrs.&#160;Dilber,</span>
   <span id="f000316">laughing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“If he wanted to keep ’em after he was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000318">a wicked old screw,” pursued the woman,</span>
   <span id="f000319">“why wasn’t he natural in his lifetime?</span>
   <span id="f000320">If he had been,</span>
   <span id="f000321">he’d have had somebody to look after him when he was struck with Death,</span>
   <span id="f000322">instead of lying gasping out his last there,</span>
   <span id="f000323">alone by himself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">“It’s the truest word that ever was spoke,” said Mrs.&#160;Dilber.</span>
   <span id="f000325">“It’s a judgment on him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“I wish it was a little heavier judgment,” replied the woman;</span>
   <span id="f000327">“and it should have been,</span>
   <span id="f000328">you may depend upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000329">if I could have laid my hands on anything else.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Open that bundle,</span>
   <span id="f000331">old Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and let me know the value of it.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Speak out plain.</span>
   <span id="f000334">I’m not afraid to be the first,</span>
   <span id="f000335">nor afraid for them to see it.</span>
   <span id="f000336">We know pretty well that we were helping ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000337">before we met here,</span>
   <span id="f000338">I believe.</span>
   <span id="f000339">It’s no sin.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Open the bundle,</span>
   <span id="f000341">Joe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">But the gallantry of her friends would not allow of this;</span>
   <span id="f000343">and the man in faded black,</span>
   <span id="f000344">mounting the breach first,</span>
   <span id="f000345">produced his plunder.</span>
   <span id="f000346">It was not extensive.</span>
   <span id="f000347">A seal or two,</span>
   <span id="f000348">a pencil-case,</span>
   <span id="f000349">a pair of sleeve-buttons,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and a brooch of no great value,</span>
   <span id="f000351">were all.</span>
   <span id="f000352">They were severally examined and appraised by old Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000353">who chalked the sums he was disposed to give for each,</span>
   <span id="f000354">upon the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and added them up into a total when he found there was nothing more to come.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“That’s your account,” said Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000357">“and I wouldn’t give another sixpence,</span>
   <span id="f000358">if I was to be boiled for not doing it.</span>
   <span id="f000359">Who’s next?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">Mrs.&#160;Dilber was next.</span>
   <span id="f000361">Sheets and towels,</span>
   <span id="f000362">a little wearing apparel,</span>
   <span id="f000363">two old-fashioned silver teaspoons,</span>
   <span id="f000364">a pair of sugar-tongs,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and a few boots.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Her account was stated on the wall in the same manner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">“I always give too much to ladies.</span>
   <span id="f000368">It’s a weakness of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and that’s the way I ruin myself,” said old Joe.</span>
   <span id="f000370">“That’s your account.</span>
   <span id="f000371">If you asked me for another penny,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and made it an open question,</span>
   <span id="f000373">I’d repent of being so liberal and knock off half-a-crown.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“And now undo my bundle,</span>
   <span id="f000375">Joe,” said the first woman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">Joe went down on his knees for the greater convenience of opening it,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and having unfastened a great many knots,</span>
   <span id="f000378">dragged out a large and heavy roll of some dark stuff.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“What do you call this?” said Joe.</span>
   <span id="f000380">“Bed-curtains!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">“Ah!” returned the woman,</span>
   <span id="f000382">laughing and leaning forward on her crossed arms.</span>
   <span id="f000383">“Bed-curtains!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“You don’t mean to say you took ’em down,</span>
   <span id="f000385">rings and all,</span>
   <span id="f000386">with him lying there?” said Joe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“Yes I do,” replied the woman.</span>
   <span id="f000388">“Why not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">“You were born to make your fortune,” said Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000390">“and you’ll certainly do it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“I certainly shan’t hold my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000392">when I can get anything in it by reaching it out,</span>
   <span id="f000393">for the sake of such a man as He was,</span>
   <span id="f000394">I promise you,</span>
   <span id="f000395">Joe,” returned the woman coolly.</span>
   <span id="f000396">“Don’t drop that oil upon the blankets,</span>
   <span id="f000397">now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">“His blankets?” asked Joe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“Whose else’s do you think?” replied the woman.</span>
   <span id="f000400">“He isn’t likely to take cold without ’em,</span>
   <span id="f000401">I dare say.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“I hope he didn’t die of anything catching?</span>
   <span id="f000403">Eh?” said old Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000404">stopping in his work,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and looking up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“Don’t you be afraid of that,” returned the woman.</span>
   <span id="f000407">“I an’t so fond of his company that I’d loiter about him for such things,</span>
   <span id="f000408">if he did.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000410">you may look through that shirt till your eyes ache;</span>
   <span id="f000411">but you won’t find a hole in it,</span>
   <span id="f000412">nor a threadbare place.</span>
   <span id="f000413">It’s the best he had,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and a fine one too.</span>
   <span id="f000415">They’d have wasted it,</span>
   <span id="f000416">if it hadn’t been for me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">“What do you call wasting of it?” asked old Joe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“Putting it on him to be buried in,</span>
   <span id="f000419">to be sure,” replied the woman with a laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000420">“Somebody was fool enough to do it,</span>
   <span id="f000421">but I took it off again.</span>
   <span id="f000422">If calico an’t good enough for such a purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000423">it isn’t good enough for anything.</span>
   <span id="f000424">It’s quite as becoming to the body.</span>
   <span id="f000425">He can’t look uglier than he did in that one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">Scrooge listened to this dialogue in horror.</span>
   <span id="f000427">As they sat grouped about their spoil,</span>
   <span id="f000428">in the scanty light afforded by the old man’s lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000429">he viewed them with a detestation and disgust,</span>
   <span id="f000430">which could hardly have been greater,</span>
   <span id="f000431">though they had been obscene demons,</span>
   <span id="f000432">marketing the corpse itself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000434">ha!” laughed the same woman,</span>
   <span id="f000435">when old Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000436">producing a flannel bag with money in it,</span>
   <span id="f000437">told out their several gains upon the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000438">“This is the end of it,</span>
   <span id="f000439">you see!</span>
   <span id="f000440">He frightened every one away from him when he was alive,</span>
   <span id="f000441">to profit us when he was dead!</span>
   <span id="f000442">Ha,</span>
   <span id="f000443">ha,</span>
   <span id="f000444">ha!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“Spirit!” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000446">shuddering from head to foot.</span>
   <span id="f000447">“I see,</span>
   <span id="f000448">I see.</span>
   <span id="f000449">The case of this unhappy man might be my own.</span>
   <span id="f000450">My life tends that way,</span>
   <span id="f000451">now.</span>
   <span id="f000452">Merciful Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000453">what is this!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">He recoiled in terror,</span>
   <span id="f000455">for the scene had changed,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and now he almost touched a bed:</span>
   <span id="f000457">a bare,</span>
   <span id="f000458">uncurtained bed:</span>
   <span id="f000459">on which,</span>
   <span id="f000460">beneath a ragged sheet,</span>
   <span id="f000461">there lay a something covered up,</span>
   <span id="f000462">which,</span>
   <span id="f000463">though it was dumb,</span>
   <span id="f000464">announced itself in awful language.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">The room was very dark,</span>
   <span id="f000466">too dark to be observed with any accuracy,</span>
   <span id="f000467">though Scrooge glanced round it in obedience to a secret impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000468">anxious to know what kind of room it was.</span>
   <span id="f000469">A pale light,</span>
   <span id="f000470">rising in the outer air,</span>
   <span id="f000471">fell straight upon the bed;</span>
   <span id="f000472">and on it,</span>
   <span id="f000473">plundered and bereft,</span>
   <span id="f000474">unwatched,</span>
   <span id="f000475">unwept,</span>
   <span id="f000476">uncared for,</span>
   <span id="f000477">was the body of this man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">Scrooge glanced towards the Phantom.</span>
   <span id="f000479">Its steady hand was pointed to the head.</span>
   <span id="f000480">The cover was so carelessly adjusted that the slightest raising of it,</span>
   <span id="f000481">the motion of a finger upon Scrooge’s part,</span>
   <span id="f000482">would have disclosed the face.</span>
   <span id="f000483">He thought of it,</span>
   <span id="f000484">felt how easy it would be to do,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and longed to do it;</span>
   <span id="f000486">but had no more power to withdraw the veil than to dismiss the spectre at his side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">Oh cold,</span>
   <span id="f000488">cold,</span>
   <span id="f000489">rigid,</span>
   <span id="f000490">dreadful Death,</span>
   <span id="f000491">set up thine altar here,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and dress it with such terrors as thou hast at thy command:</span>
   <span id="f000493">for this is thy dominion!</span>
   <span id="f000494">But of the loved,</span>
   <span id="f000495">revered,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and honoured head,</span>
   <span id="f000497">thou canst not turn one hair to thy dread purposes,</span>
   <span id="f000498">or make one feature odious.</span>
   <span id="f000499">It is not that the hand is heavy and will fall down when released;</span>
   <span id="f000500">it is not that the heart and pulse are still;</span>
   <span id="f000501">but that the hand WAS open,</span>
   <span id="f000502">generous,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and true;</span>
   <span id="f000504">the heart brave,</span>
   <span id="f000505">warm,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and tender;</span>
   <span id="f000507">and the pulse a man’s.</span>
   <span id="f000508">Strike,</span>
   <span id="f000509">Shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000510">strike!</span>
   <span id="f000511">And see his good deeds springing from the wound,</span>
   <span id="f000512">to sow the world with life immortal!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">No voice pronounced these words in Scrooge’s ears,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and yet he heard them when he looked upon the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000515">He thought,</span>
   <span id="f000516">if this man could be raised up now,</span>
   <span id="f000517">what would be his foremost thoughts?</span>
   <span id="f000518">Avarice,</span>
   <span id="f000519">hard-dealing,</span>
   <span id="f000520">griping cares?</span>
   <span id="f000521">They have brought him to a rich end,</span>
   <span id="f000522">truly!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">He lay,</span>
   <span id="f000524">in the dark empty house,</span>
   <span id="f000525">with not a man,</span>
   <span id="f000526">a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000527">or a child,</span>
   <span id="f000528">to say that he was kind to me in this or that,</span>
   <span id="f000529">and for the memory of one kind word I will be kind to him.</span>
   <span id="f000530">A cat was tearing at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and there was a sound of gnawing rats beneath the hearth-stone.</span>
   <span id="f000532">What they wanted in the room of death,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and why they were so restless and disturbed,</span>
   <span id="f000534">Scrooge did not dare to think.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“Spirit!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000536">“this is a fearful place.</span>
   <span id="f000537">In leaving it,</span>
   <span id="f000538">I shall not leave its lesson,</span>
   <span id="f000539">trust me.</span>
   <span id="f000540">Let us go!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">Still the Ghost pointed with an unmoved finger to the head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“I understand you,” Scrooge returned,</span>
   <span id="f000543">“and I would do it,</span>
   <span id="f000544">if I could.</span>
   <span id="f000545">But I have not the power,</span>
   <span id="f000546">Spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000547">I have not the power.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">Again it seemed to look upon him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“If there is any person in the town,</span>
   <span id="f000550">who feels emotion caused by this man’s death,” said Scrooge quite agonised,</span>
   <span id="f000551">“show that person to me,</span>
   <span id="f000552">Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000553">I beseech you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">The Phantom spread its dark robe before him for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000555">like a wing;</span>
   <span id="f000556">and withdrawing it,</span>
   <span id="f000557">revealed a room by daylight,</span>
   <span id="f000558">where a mother and her children were.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">She was expecting some one,</span>
   <span id="f000560">and with anxious eagerness;</span>
   <span id="f000561">for she walked up and down the room;</span>
   <span id="f000562">started at every sound;</span>
   <span id="f000563">looked out from the window;</span>
   <span id="f000564">glanced at the clock;</span>
   <span id="f000565">tried,</span>
   <span id="f000566">but in vain,</span>
   <span id="f000567">to work with her needle;</span>
   <span id="f000568">and could hardly bear the voices of the children in their play.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000569">At length the long-expected knock was heard.</span>
   <span id="f000570">She hurried to the door,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and met her husband;</span>
   <span id="f000572">a man whose face was careworn and depressed,</span>
   <span id="f000573">though he was young.</span>
   <span id="f000574">There was a remarkable expression in it now;</span>
   <span id="f000575">a kind of serious delight of which he felt ashamed,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and which he struggled to repress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">He sat down to the dinner that had been hoarding for him by the fire;</span>
   <span id="f000578">and when she asked him faintly what news</span>
   <span id="f000579">(which was not until after a long silence),</span>
   <span id="f000580">he appeared embarrassed how to answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">“Is it good?” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000582">“or bad?” – to help him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“Bad,” he answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000584">“We are quite ruined?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000586">There is hope yet,</span>
   <span id="f000587">Caroline.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000588">“If he relents,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000589">amazed,</span>
   <span id="f000590">“there is!</span>
   <span id="f000591">Nothing is past hope,</span>
   <span id="f000592">if such a miracle has happened.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">“He is past relenting,” said her husband.</span>
   <span id="f000594">“He is dead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">She was a mild and patient creature if her face spoke truth;</span>
   <span id="f000596">but she was thankful in her soul to hear it,</span>
   <span id="f000597">and she said so,</span>
   <span id="f000598">with clasped hands.</span>
   <span id="f000599">She prayed forgiveness the next moment,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and was sorry;</span>
   <span id="f000601">but the first was the emotion of her heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000602">“What the half-drunken woman whom I told you of last night,</span>
   <span id="f000603">said to me,</span>
   <span id="f000604">when I tried to see him and obtain a week’s delay;</span>
   <span id="f000605">and what I thought was a mere excuse to avoid me;</span>
   <span id="f000606">turns out to have been quite true.</span>
   <span id="f000607">He was not only very ill,</span>
   <span id="f000608">but dying,</span>
   <span id="f000609">then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">“To whom will our debt be transferred?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000611">“I don’t know.</span>
   <span id="f000612">But before that time we shall be ready with the money;</span>
   <span id="f000613">and even though we were not,</span>
   <span id="f000614">it would be a bad fortune indeed to find so merciless a creditor in his successor.</span>
   <span id="f000615">We may sleep to-night with light hearts,</span>
   <span id="f000616">Caroline!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000618">Soften it as they would,</span>
   <span id="f000619">their hearts were lighter.</span>
   <span id="f000620">The children’s faces,</span>
   <span id="f000621">hushed and clustered round to hear what they so little understood,</span>
   <span id="f000622">were brighter;</span>
   <span id="f000623">and it was a happier house for this man’s death!</span>
   <span id="f000624">The only emotion that the Ghost could show him,</span>
   <span id="f000625">caused by the event,</span>
   <span id="f000626">was one of pleasure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">“Let me see some tenderness connected with a death,” said Scrooge;</span>
   <span id="f000628">“or that dark chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000629">Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000630">which we left just now,</span>
   <span id="f000631">will be for ever present to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000632">The Ghost conducted him through several streets familiar to his feet;</span>
   <span id="f000633">and as they went along,</span>
   <span id="f000634">Scrooge looked here and there to find himself,</span>
   <span id="f000635">but nowhere was he to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000636">They entered poor Bob Cratchit’s house;</span>
   <span id="f000637">the dwelling he had visited before;</span>
   <span id="f000638">and found the mother and the children seated round the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">Quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000640">Very quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000641">The noisy little Cratchits were as still as statues in one corner,</span>
   <span id="f000642">and sat looking up at Peter,</span>
   <span id="f000643">who had a book before him.</span>
   <span id="f000644">The mother and her daughters were engaged in sewing.</span>
   <span id="f000645">But surely they were very quiet!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000646">“’And He took a child,</span>
   <span id="f000647">and set him in the midst of them.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">Where had Scrooge heard those words?</span>
   <span id="f000649">He had not dreamed them.</span>
   <span id="f000650">The boy must have read them out,</span>
   <span id="f000651">as he and the Spirit crossed the threshold.</span>
   <span id="f000652">Why did he not go on?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">The mother laid her work upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000654">and put her hand up to her face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">“The colour hurts my eyes,” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">The colour?</span>
   <span id="f000657">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000658">poor Tiny Tim!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000659">“They’re better now again,” said Cratchit’s wife.</span>
   <span id="f000660">“It makes them weak by candle-light;</span>
   <span id="f000661">and I wouldn’t show weak eyes to your father when he comes home,</span>
   <span id="f000662">for the world.</span>
   <span id="f000663">It must be near his time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">“Past it rather,” Peter answered,</span>
   <span id="f000665">shutting up his book.</span>
   <span id="f000666">“But I think he has walked a little slower than he used,</span>
   <span id="f000667">these few last evenings,</span>
   <span id="f000668">mother.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000669">They were very quiet again.</span>
   <span id="f000670">At last she said,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and in a steady,</span>
   <span id="f000672">cheerful voice,</span>
   <span id="f000673">that only faltered once:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">“I have known him walk with – I have known him walk with Tiny Tim upon his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000675">very fast indeed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">“And so have I,” cried Peter.</span>
   <span id="f000677">“Often.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">“And so have I,” exclaimed another.</span>
   <span id="f000679">So had all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000680">“But he was very light to carry,” she resumed,</span>
   <span id="f000681">intent upon her work,</span>
   <span id="f000682">“and his father loved him so,</span>
   <span id="f000683">that it was no trouble:</span>
   <span id="f000684">no trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000685">And there is your father at the door!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">She hurried out to meet him;</span>
   <span id="f000687">and little Bob in his comforter – he had need of it,</span>
   <span id="f000688">poor fellow – came in.</span>
   <span id="f000689">His tea was ready for him on the hob,</span>
   <span id="f000690">and they all tried who should help him to it most.</span>
   <span id="f000691">Then the two young Cratchits got upon his knees and laid,</span>
   <span id="f000692">each child a little cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000693">against his face,</span>
   <span id="f000694">as if they said,</span>
   <span id="f000695">“Don’t mind it,</span>
   <span id="f000696">father.</span>
   <span id="f000697">Don’t be grieved!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">Bob was very cheerful with them,</span>
   <span id="f000699">and spoke pleasantly to all the family.</span>
   <span id="f000700">He looked at the work upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000701">and praised the industry and speed of Mrs.&#160;Cratchit and the girls.</span>
   <span id="f000702">They would be done long before Sunday,</span>
   <span id="f000703">he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000704">“Sunday!</span>
   <span id="f000705">You went to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000706">then,</span>
   <span id="f000707">Robert?” said his wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000708">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000709">my dear,” returned Bob.</span>
   <span id="f000710">“I wish you could have gone.</span>
   <span id="f000711">It would have done you good to see how green a place it is.</span>
   <span id="f000712">But you’ll see it often.</span>
   <span id="f000713">I promised him that I would walk there on a Sunday.</span>
   <span id="f000714">My little,</span>
   <span id="f000715">little child!” cried Bob.</span>
   <span id="f000716">“My little child!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">He broke down all at once.</span>
   <span id="f000718">He couldn’t help it.</span>
   <span id="f000719">If he could have helped it,</span>
   <span id="f000720">he and his child would have been farther apart perhaps than they were.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">He left the room,</span>
   <span id="f000722">and went up-stairs into the room above,</span>
   <span id="f000723">which was lighted cheerfully,</span>
   <span id="f000724">and hung with Christmas.</span>
   <span id="f000725">There was a chair set close beside the child,</span>
   <span id="f000726">and there were signs of some one having been there,</span>
   <span id="f000727">lately.</span>
   <span id="f000728">Poor Bob sat down in it,</span>
   <span id="f000729">and when he had thought a little and composed himself,</span>
   <span id="f000730">he kissed the little face.</span>
   <span id="f000731">He was reconciled to what had happened,</span>
   <span id="f000732">and went down again quite happy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">They drew about the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000734">and talked;</span>
   <span id="f000735">the girls and mother working still.</span>
   <span id="f000736">Bob told them of the extraordinary kindness of Mr.&#160;Scrooge’s nephew,</span>
   <span id="f000737">whom he had scarcely seen but once,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and who,</span>
   <span id="f000739">meeting him in the street that day,</span>
   <span id="f000740">and seeing that he looked a little – “just a little down you know,” said Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000741">inquired what had happened to distress him.</span>
   <span id="f000742">“On which,” said Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000743">“for he is the pleasantest-spoken gentleman you ever heard,</span>
   <span id="f000744">I told him.</span>
   <span id="f000745">’I am heartily sorry for it,</span>
   <span id="f000746">Mr.&#160;Cratchit,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000747">’and heartily sorry for your good wife.’ By the bye,</span>
   <span id="f000748">how he ever knew that,</span>
   <span id="f000749">I don’t know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000750">“Knew what,</span>
   <span id="f000751">my dear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000753">that you were a good wife,” replied Bob.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“Everybody knows that!” said Peter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000755">“Very well observed,</span>
   <span id="f000756">my boy!” cried Bob.</span>
   <span id="f000757">“I hope they do.</span>
   <span id="f000758">’Heartily sorry,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000759">’for your good wife.</span>
   <span id="f000760">If I can be of service to you in any way,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000761">giving me his card,</span>
   <span id="f000762">’that’s where I live.</span>
   <span id="f000763">Pray come to me.’ Now,</span>
   <span id="f000764">it wasn’t,” cried Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000765">“for the sake of anything he might be able to do for us,</span>
   <span id="f000766">so much as for his kind way,</span>
   <span id="f000767">that this was quite delightful.</span>
   <span id="f000768">It really seemed as if he had known our Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000769">and felt with us.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000770">“I’m sure he’s a good soul!” said Mrs.&#160;Cratchit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000771">“You would be surer of it,</span>
   <span id="f000772">my dear,” returned Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000773">“if you saw and spoke to him.</span>
   <span id="f000774">I shouldn’t be at all surprised – mark what I say!</span>
   <span id="f000775">– if he got Peter a better situation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000776">“Only hear that,</span>
   <span id="f000777">Peter,” said Mrs.&#160;Cratchit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">“And then,” cried one of the girls,</span>
   <span id="f000779">“Peter will be keeping company with some one,</span>
   <span id="f000780">and setting up for himself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000781">“Get along with you!” retorted Peter,</span>
   <span id="f000782">grinning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000783">“It’s just as likely as not,” said Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000784">“one of these days;</span>
   <span id="f000785">though there’s plenty of time for that,</span>
   <span id="f000786">my dear.</span>
   <span id="f000787">But however and whenever we part from one another,</span>
   <span id="f000788">I am sure we shall none of us forget poor Tiny Tim – shall we – or this first parting that there was among us?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000789">“Never,</span>
   <span id="f000790">father!” cried they all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000791">“And I know,” said Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000792">“I know,</span>
   <span id="f000793">my dears,</span>
   <span id="f000794">that when we recollect how patient and how mild he was;</span>
   <span id="f000795">although he was a little,</span>
   <span id="f000796">little child;</span>
   <span id="f000797">we shall not quarrel easily among ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and forget poor Tiny Tim in doing it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000800">never,</span>
   <span id="f000801">father!” they all cried again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“I am very happy,” said little Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000803">“I am very happy!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">Mrs.&#160;Cratchit kissed him,</span>
   <span id="f000805">his daughters kissed him,</span>
   <span id="f000806">the two young Cratchits kissed him,</span>
   <span id="f000807">and Peter and himself shook hands.</span>
   <span id="f000808">Spirit of Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000809">thy childish essence was from God!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">“Spectre,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000811">“something informs me that our parting moment is at hand.</span>
   <span id="f000812">I know it,</span>
   <span id="f000813">but I know not how.</span>
   <span id="f000814">Tell me what man that was whom we saw lying dead?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">The Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come conveyed him,</span>
   <span id="f000816">as before – though at a different time,</span>
   <span id="f000817">he thought:</span>
   <span id="f000818">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000819">there seemed no order in these latter visions,</span>
   <span id="f000820">save that they were in the Future – into the resorts of business men,</span>
   <span id="f000821">but showed him not himself.</span>
   <span id="f000822">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000823">the Spirit did not stay for anything,</span>
   <span id="f000824">but went straight on,</span>
   <span id="f000825">as to the end just now desired,</span>
   <span id="f000826">until besought by Scrooge to tarry for a moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000827">“This court,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000828">“through which we hurry now,</span>
   <span id="f000829">is where my place of occupation is,</span>
   <span id="f000830">and has been for a length of time.</span>
   <span id="f000831">I see the house.</span>
   <span id="f000832">Let me behold what I shall be,</span>
   <span id="f000833">in days to come!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000834">The Spirit stopped;</span>
   <span id="f000835">the hand was pointed elsewhere.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">“The house is yonder,” Scrooge exclaimed.</span>
   <span id="f000837">“Why do you point away?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000838">The inexorable finger underwent no change.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">Scrooge hastened to the window of his office,</span>
   <span id="f000840">and looked in.</span>
   <span id="f000841">It was an office still,</span>
   <span id="f000842">but not his.</span>
   <span id="f000843">The furniture was not the same,</span>
   <span id="f000844">and the figure in the chair was not himself.</span>
   <span id="f000845">The Phantom pointed as before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">He joined it once again,</span>
   <span id="f000847">and wondering why and whither he had gone,</span>
   <span id="f000848">accompanied it until they reached an iron gate.</span>
   <span id="f000849">He paused to look round before entering.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">A churchyard.</span>
   <span id="f000851">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000852">then;</span>
   <span id="f000853">the wretched man whose name he had now to learn,</span>
   <span id="f000854">lay underneath the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000855">It was a worthy place.</span>
   <span id="f000856">Walled in by houses;</span>
   <span id="f000857">overrun by grass and weeds,</span>
   <span id="f000858">the growth of vegetation’s death,</span>
   <span id="f000859">not life;</span>
   <span id="f000860">choked up with too much burying;</span>
   <span id="f000861">fat with repleted appetite.</span>
   <span id="f000862">A worthy place!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">The Spirit stood among the graves,</span>
   <span id="f000864">and pointed down to One.</span>
   <span id="f000865">He advanced towards it trembling.</span>
   <span id="f000866">The Phantom was exactly as it had been,</span>
   <span id="f000867">but he dreaded that he saw new meaning in its solemn shape.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000868">“Before I draw nearer to that stone to which you point,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000869">“answer me one question.</span>
   <span id="f000870">Are these the shadows of the things that Will be,</span>
   <span id="f000871">or are they shadows of things that May be,</span>
   <span id="f000872">only?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000873">Still the Ghost pointed downward to the grave by which it stood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000874">“Men’s courses will foreshadow certain ends,</span>
   <span id="f000875">to which,</span>
   <span id="f000876">if persevered in,</span>
   <span id="f000877">they must lead,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000878">“But if the courses be departed from,</span>
   <span id="f000879">the ends will change.</span>
   <span id="f000880">Say it is thus with what you show me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000881">The Spirit was immovable as ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">Scrooge crept towards it,</span>
   <span id="f000883">trembling as he went;</span>
   <span id="f000884">and following the finger,</span>
   <span id="f000885">read upon the stone of the neglected grave his own name,</span>
   <span id="f000886">EBENEZER SCROOGE.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000887">“Am I that man who lay upon the bed?” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000888">upon his knees.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000889">The finger pointed from the grave to him,</span>
   <span id="f000890">and back again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000891">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000892">Spirit!</span>
   <span id="f000893">Oh no,</span>
   <span id="f000894">no!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000895">The finger still was there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000896">“Spirit!” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000897">tight clutching at its robe,</span>
   <span id="f000898">“hear me!</span>
   <span id="f000899">I am not the man I was.</span>
   <span id="f000900">I will not be the man I must have been but for this intercourse.</span>
   <span id="f000901">Why show me this,</span>
   <span id="f000902">if I am past all hope!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000903">For the first time the hand appeared to shake.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000904">“Good Spirit,” he pursued,</span>
   <span id="f000905">as down upon the ground he fell before it:</span>
   <span id="f000906">“Your nature intercedes for me,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and pities me.</span>
   <span id="f000908">Assure me that I yet may change these shadows you have shown me,</span>
   <span id="f000909">by an altered life!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000910">The kind hand trembled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">“I will honour Christmas in my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000912">and try to keep it all the year.</span>
   <span id="f000913">I will live in the Past,</span>
   <span id="f000914">the Present,</span>
   <span id="f000915">and the Future.</span>
   <span id="f000916">The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me.</span>
   <span id="f000917">I will not shut out the lessons that they teach.</span>
   <span id="f000918">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000919">tell me I may sponge away the writing on this stone!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000920">In his agony,</span>
   <span id="f000921">he caught the spectral hand.</span>
   <span id="f000922">It sought to free itself,</span>
   <span id="f000923">but he was strong in his entreaty,</span>
   <span id="f000924">and detained it.</span>
   <span id="f000925">The Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000926">stronger yet,</span>
   <span id="f000927">repulsed him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000928">Holding up his hands in a last prayer to have his fate reversed,</span>
   <span id="f000929">he saw an alteration in the Phantom’s hood and dress.</span>
   <span id="f000930">It shrunk,</span>
   <span id="f000931">collapsed,</span>
   <span id="f000932">and dwindled down into a bedpost.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

