<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter V<br />The End Of It</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Yes!</span>
   <span id="f000003">and the bedpost was his own.</span>
   <span id="f000004">The bed was his own,</span>
   <span id="f000005">the room was his own.</span>
   <span id="f000006">Best and happiest of all,</span>
   <span id="f000007">the Time before him was his own,</span>
   <span id="f000008">to make amends in!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000009">“I will live in the Past,</span>
   <span id="f000010">the Present,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and the Future!” Scrooge repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000012">as he scrambled out of bed.</span>
   <span id="f000013">“The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Oh Jacob Marley!</span>
   <span id="f000015">Heaven,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and the Christmas Time be praised for this!</span>
   <span id="f000017">I say it on my knees,</span>
   <span id="f000018">old Jacob;</span>
   <span id="f000019">on my knees!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">He was so fluttered and so glowing with his good intentions,</span>
   <span id="f000021">that his broken voice would scarcely answer to his call.</span>
   <span id="f000022">He had been sobbing violently in his conflict with the Spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and his face was wet with tears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">“They are not torn down,” cried Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000025">folding one of his bed-curtains in his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000026">“they are not torn down,</span>
   <span id="f000027">rings and all.</span>
   <span id="f000028">They are here – I am here – the shadows of the things that would have been,</span>
   <span id="f000029">may be dispelled.</span>
   <span id="f000030">They will be.</span>
   <span id="f000031">I know they will!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">His hands were busy with his garments all this time;</span>
   <span id="f000033">turning them inside out,</span>
   <span id="f000034">putting them on upside down,</span>
   <span id="f000035">tearing them,</span>
   <span id="f000036">mislaying them,</span>
   <span id="f000037">making them parties to every kind of extravagance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“I don’t know what to do!” cried Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000039">laughing and crying in the same breath;</span>
   <span id="f000040">and making a perfect Laocoön of himself with his stockings.</span>
   <span id="f000041">“I am as light as a feather,</span>
   <span id="f000042">I am as happy as an angel,</span>
   <span id="f000043">I am as merry as a schoolboy.</span>
   <span id="f000044">I am as giddy as a drunken man.</span>
   <span id="f000045">A merry Christmas to everybody!</span>
   <span id="f000046">A happy New Year to all the world.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Hallo here!</span>
   <span id="f000048">Whoop!</span>
   <span id="f000049">Hallo!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">He had frisked into the sitting-room,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and was now standing there:</span>
   <span id="f000052">perfectly winded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“There’s the saucepan that the gruel was in!” cried Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000054">starting off again,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and going round the fireplace.</span>
   <span id="f000056">“There’s the door,</span>
   <span id="f000057">by which the Ghost of Jacob Marley entered!</span>
   <span id="f000058">There’s the corner where the Ghost of Christmas Present,</span>
   <span id="f000059">sat!</span>
   <span id="f000060">There’s the window where I saw the wandering Spirits!</span>
   <span id="f000061">It’s all right,</span>
   <span id="f000062">it’s all true,</span>
   <span id="f000063">it all happened.</span>
   <span id="f000064">Ha ha ha!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">Really,</span>
   <span id="f000066">for a man who had been out of practice for so many years,</span>
   <span id="f000067">it was a splendid laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000068">a most illustrious laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000069">The father of a long,</span>
   <span id="f000070">long line of brilliant laughs!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“I don’t know what day of the month it is!” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000072">“I don’t know how long I’ve been among the Spirits.</span>
   <span id="f000073">I don’t know anything.</span>
   <span id="f000074">I’m quite a baby.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Never mind.</span>
   <span id="f000076">I don’t care.</span>
   <span id="f000077">I’d rather be a baby.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Hallo!</span>
   <span id="f000079">Whoop!</span>
   <span id="f000080">Hallo here!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">He was checked in his transports by the churches ringing out the lustiest peals he had ever heard.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Clash,</span>
   <span id="f000083">clang,</span>
   <span id="f000084">hammer;</span>
   <span id="f000085">ding,</span>
   <span id="f000086">dong,</span>
   <span id="f000087">bell.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Bell,</span>
   <span id="f000089">dong,</span>
   <span id="f000090">ding;</span>
   <span id="f000091">hammer,</span>
   <span id="f000092">clang,</span>
   <span id="f000093">clash!</span>
   <span id="f000094">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000095">glorious,</span>
   <span id="f000096">glorious!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">Running to the window,</span>
   <span id="f000098">he opened it,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and put out his head.</span>
   <span id="f000100">No fog,</span>
   <span id="f000101">no mist;</span>
   <span id="f000102">clear,</span>
   <span id="f000103">bright,</span>
   <span id="f000104">jovial,</span>
   <span id="f000105">stirring,</span>
   <span id="f000106">cold;</span>
   <span id="f000107">cold,</span>
   <span id="f000108">piping for the blood to dance to;</span>
   <span id="f000109">Golden sunlight;</span>
   <span id="f000110">Heavenly sky;</span>
   <span id="f000111">sweet fresh air;</span>
   <span id="f000112">merry bells.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000114">glorious!</span>
   <span id="f000115">Glorious!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“What’s to-day!” cried Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000117">calling downward to a boy in Sunday clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000118">who perhaps had loitered in to look about him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“EH?” returned the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000120">with all his might of wonder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“What’s to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000122">my fine fellow?” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“To-day!” replied the boy.</span>
   <span id="f000124">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000125">CHRISTMAS DAY.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“It’s Christmas Day!” said Scrooge to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000127">“I haven’t missed it.</span>
   <span id="f000128">The Spirits have done it all in one night.</span>
   <span id="f000129">They can do anything they like.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Of course they can.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Of course they can.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Hallo,</span>
   <span id="f000133">my fine fellow!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">“Hallo!” returned the boy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“Do you know the Poulterer’s,</span>
   <span id="f000136">in the next street but one,</span>
   <span id="f000137">at the corner?” Scrooge inquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“I should hope I did,” replied the lad.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“An intelligent boy!” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000140">“A remarkable boy!</span>
   <span id="f000141">Do you know whether they’ve sold the prize Turkey that was hanging up there?</span>
   <span id="f000142">– Not the little prize Turkey:</span>
   <span id="f000143">the big one?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“What,</span>
   <span id="f000145">the one as big as me?” returned the boy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“What a delightful boy!” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000147">“It’s a pleasure to talk to him.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000149">my buck!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“It’s hanging there now,” replied the boy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“Is it?” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000152">“Go and buy it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“Walk-ER!” exclaimed the boy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000155">no,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000156">“I am in earnest.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Go and buy it,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and tell ’em to bring it here,</span>
   <span id="f000159">that I may give them the direction where to take it.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Come back with the man,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and I’ll give you a shilling.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Come back with him in less than five minutes and I’ll give you half-a-crown!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">The boy was off like a shot.</span>
   <span id="f000164">He must have had a steady hand at a trigger who could have got a shot off half so fast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">“I’ll send it to Bob Cratchit’s!” whispered Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000166">rubbing his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and splitting with a laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000168">“He sha’n’t know who sends it.</span>
   <span id="f000169">It’s twice the size of Tiny Tim.</span>
   <span id="f000170">Joe Miller never made such a joke as sending it to Bob’s will be!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">The hand in which he wrote the address was not a steady one,</span>
   <span id="f000172">but write it he did,</span>
   <span id="f000173">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and went down-stairs to open the street door,</span>
   <span id="f000175">ready for the coming of the poulterer’s man.</span>
   <span id="f000176">As he stood there,</span>
   <span id="f000177">waiting his arrival,</span>
   <span id="f000178">the knocker caught his eye.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“I shall love it,</span>
   <span id="f000180">as long as I live!” cried Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000181">patting it with his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000182">“I scarcely ever looked at it before.</span>
   <span id="f000183">What an honest expression it has in its face!</span>
   <span id="f000184">It’s a wonderful knocker!</span>
   <span id="f000185">– Here’s the Turkey!</span>
   <span id="f000186">Hallo!</span>
   <span id="f000187">Whoop!</span>
   <span id="f000188">How are you!</span>
   <span id="f000189">Merry Christmas!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">It was a Turkey!</span>
   <span id="f000191">He never could have stood upon his legs,</span>
   <span id="f000192">that bird.</span>
   <span id="f000193">He would have snapped ’em short off in a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000194">like sticks of sealing-wax.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000196">it’s impossible to carry that to Camden Town,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000197">“You must have a cab.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">The chuckle with which he said this,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and the chuckle with which he paid for the Turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and the chuckle with which he paid for the cab,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and the chuckle with which he recompensed the boy,</span>
   <span id="f000202">were only to be exceeded by the chuckle with which he sat down breathless in his chair again,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and chuckled till he cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">Shaving was not an easy task,</span>
   <span id="f000205">for his hand continued to shake very much;</span>
   <span id="f000206">and shaving requires attention,</span>
   <span id="f000207">even when you don’t dance while you are at it.</span>
   <span id="f000208">But if he had cut the end of his nose off,</span>
   <span id="f000209">he would have put a piece of sticking-plaister over it,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and been quite satisfied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">He dressed himself “all in his best,” and at last got out into the streets.</span>
   <span id="f000212">The people were by this time pouring forth,</span>
   <span id="f000213">as he had seen them with the Ghost of Christmas Present;</span>
   <span id="f000214">and walking with his hands behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000215">Scrooge regarded every one with a delighted smile.</span>
   <span id="f000216">He looked so irresistibly pleasant,</span>
   <span id="f000217">in a word,</span>
   <span id="f000218">that three or four good-humoured fellows said,</span>
   <span id="f000219">“Good morning,</span>
   <span id="f000220">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000221">A merry Christmas to you!” And Scrooge said often afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000222">that of all the blithe sounds he had ever heard,</span>
   <span id="f000223">those were the blithest in his ears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">He had not gone far,</span>
   <span id="f000225">when coming on towards him he beheld the portly gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000226">who had walked into his counting-house the day before,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000228">“Scrooge and Marley’s,</span>
   <span id="f000229">I believe?” It sent a pang across his heart to think how this old gentleman would look upon him when they met;</span>
   <span id="f000230">but he knew what path lay straight before him,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and he took it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">“My dear sir,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000233">quickening his pace,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and taking the old gentleman by both his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000235">“How do you do?</span>
   <span id="f000236">I hope you succeeded yesterday.</span>
   <span id="f000237">It was very kind of you.</span>
   <span id="f000238">A merry Christmas to you,</span>
   <span id="f000239">sir!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">“Mr.&#160;Scrooge?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Yes,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000242">“That is my name,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and I fear it may not be pleasant to you.</span>
   <span id="f000244">Allow me to ask your pardon.</span>
   <span id="f000245">And will you have the goodness” – here Scrooge whispered in his ear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“Lord bless me!” cried the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000247">as if his breath were taken away.</span>
   <span id="f000248">“My dear Mr.&#160;Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000249">are you serious?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“If you please,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000251">“Not a farthing less.</span>
   <span id="f000252">A great many back-payments are included in it,</span>
   <span id="f000253">I assure you.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Will you do me that favour?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“My dear sir,” said the other,</span>
   <span id="f000256">shaking hands with him.</span>
   <span id="f000257">“I don’t know what to say to such munifi – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“Don’t say anything,</span>
   <span id="f000259">please,” retorted Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000260">“Come and see me.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Will you come and see me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“I will!” cried the old gentleman.</span>
   <span id="f000263">And it was clear he meant to do it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“Thank’ee,” said Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000265">“I am much obliged to you.</span>
   <span id="f000266">I thank you fifty times.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Bless you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">He went to church,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and walked about the streets,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and watched the people hurrying to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and patted children on the head,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and questioned beggars,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and looked down into the kitchens of houses,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and up to the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and found that everything could yield him pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000276">He had never dreamed that any walk – that anything – could give him so much happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000277">In the afternoon he turned his steps towards his nephew’s house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">He passed the door a dozen times,</span>
   <span id="f000279">before he had the courage to go up and knock.</span>
   <span id="f000280">But he made a dash,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and did it:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“Is your master at home,</span>
   <span id="f000283">my dear?” said Scrooge to the girl.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Nice girl!</span>
   <span id="f000285">Very.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000287">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“Where is he,</span>
   <span id="f000289">my love?” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“He’s in the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000291">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000292">along with mistress.</span>
   <span id="f000293">I’ll show you up-stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000294">if you please.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“Thank’ee.</span>
   <span id="f000296">He knows me,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000297">with his hand already on the dining-room lock.</span>
   <span id="f000298">“I’ll go in here,</span>
   <span id="f000299">my dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">He turned it gently,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and sidled his face in,</span>
   <span id="f000302">round the door.</span>
   <span id="f000303">They were looking at the table</span>
   <span id="f000304">(which was spread out in great array);</span>
   <span id="f000305">for these young housekeepers are always nervous on such points,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and like to see that everything is right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">“Fred!” said Scrooge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">Dear heart alive,</span>
   <span id="f000309">how his niece by marriage started!</span>
   <span id="f000310">Scrooge had forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000311">for the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000312">about her sitting in the corner with the footstool,</span>
   <span id="f000313">or he wouldn’t have done it,</span>
   <span id="f000314">on any account.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">“Why bless my soul!” cried Fred,</span>
   <span id="f000316">“who’s that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“It’s I.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Your uncle Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000319">I have come to dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000320">Will you let me in,</span>
   <span id="f000321">Fred?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">Let him in!</span>
   <span id="f000323">It is a mercy he didn’t shake his arm off.</span>
   <span id="f000324">He was at home in five minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000325">Nothing could be heartier.</span>
   <span id="f000326">His niece looked just the same.</span>
   <span id="f000327">So did Topper when he came.</span>
   <span id="f000328">So did the plump sister when she came.</span>
   <span id="f000329">So did every one when they came.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Wonderful party,</span>
   <span id="f000331">wonderful games,</span>
   <span id="f000332">wonderful unanimity,</span>
   <span id="f000333">won-der-ful happiness!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">But he was early at the office next morning.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000336">he was early there.</span>
   <span id="f000337">If he could only be there first,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and catch Bob Cratchit coming late!</span>
   <span id="f000339">That was the thing he had set his heart upon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">And he did it;</span>
   <span id="f000341">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000342">he did!</span>
   <span id="f000343">The clock struck nine.</span>
   <span id="f000344">No Bob.</span>
   <span id="f000345">A quarter past.</span>
   <span id="f000346">No Bob.</span>
   <span id="f000347">He was full eighteen minutes and a half behind his time.</span>
   <span id="f000348">Scrooge sat with his door wide open,</span>
   <span id="f000349">that he might see him come into the Tank.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">His hat was off,</span>
   <span id="f000351">before he opened the door;</span>
   <span id="f000352">his comforter too.</span>
   <span id="f000353">He was on his stool in a jiffy;</span>
   <span id="f000354">driving away with his pen,</span>
   <span id="f000355">as if he were trying to overtake nine o’clock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“Hallo!” growled Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000357">in his accustomed voice,</span>
   <span id="f000358">as near as he could feign it.</span>
   <span id="f000359">“What do you mean by coming here at this time of day?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“I am very sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000361">sir,” said Bob.</span>
   <span id="f000362">“I am behind my time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">“You are?” repeated Scrooge.</span>
   <span id="f000364">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000365">I think you are.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Step this way,</span>
   <span id="f000367">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000368">if you please.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“It’s only once a year,</span>
   <span id="f000370">sir,” pleaded Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000371">appearing from the Tank.</span>
   <span id="f000372">“It shall not be repeated.</span>
   <span id="f000373">I was making rather merry yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000374">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000376">I’ll tell you what,</span>
   <span id="f000377">my friend,” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000378">“I am not going to stand this sort of thing any longer.</span>
   <span id="f000379">And therefore,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000380">leaping from his stool,</span>
   <span id="f000381">and giving Bob such a dig in the waistcoat that he staggered back into the Tank again;</span>
   <span id="f000382">“and therefore I am about to raise your salary!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">Bob trembled,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and got a little nearer to the ruler.</span>
   <span id="f000385">He had a momentary idea of knocking Scrooge down with it,</span>
   <span id="f000386">holding him,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and calling to the people in the court for help and a strait-waistcoat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“A merry Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000389">Bob!” said Scrooge,</span>
   <span id="f000390">with an earnestness that could not be mistaken,</span>
   <span id="f000391">as he clapped him on the back.</span>
   <span id="f000392">“A merrier Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000393">Bob,</span>
   <span id="f000394">my good fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000395">than I have given you,</span>
   <span id="f000396">for many a year!</span>
   <span id="f000397">I’ll raise your salary,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and endeavour to assist your struggling family,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and we will discuss your affairs this very afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000400">over a Christmas bowl of smoking bishop,</span>
   <span id="f000401">Bob!</span>
   <span id="f000402">Make up the fires,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and buy another coal-scuttle before you dot another i,</span>
   <span id="f000404">Bob Cratchit!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">Scrooge was better than his word.</span>
   <span id="f000406">He did it all,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and infinitely more;</span>
   <span id="f000408">and to Tiny Tim,</span>
   <span id="f000409">who did NOT die,</span>
   <span id="f000410">he was a second father.</span>
   <span id="f000411">He became as good a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000412">as good a master,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and as good a man,</span>
   <span id="f000414">as the good old city knew,</span>
   <span id="f000415">or any other good old city,</span>
   <span id="f000416">town,</span>
   <span id="f000417">or borough,</span>
   <span id="f000418">in the good old world.</span>
   <span id="f000419">Some people laughed to see the alteration in him,</span>
   <span id="f000420">but he let them laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and little heeded them;</span>
   <span id="f000422">for he was wise enough to know that nothing ever happened on this globe,</span>
   <span id="f000423">for good,</span>
   <span id="f000424">at which some people did not have their fill of laughter in the outset;</span>
   <span id="f000425">and knowing that such as these would be blind anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000426">he thought it quite as well that they should wrinkle up their eyes in grins,</span>
   <span id="f000427">as have the malady in less attractive forms.</span>
   <span id="f000428">His own heart laughed:</span>
   <span id="f000429">and that was quite enough for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">He had no further intercourse with Spirits,</span>
   <span id="f000431">but lived upon the Total Abstinence Principle,</span>
   <span id="f000432">ever afterwards;</span>
   <span id="f000433">and it was always said of him,</span>
   <span id="f000434">that he knew how to keep Christmas well,</span>
   <span id="f000435">if any man alive possessed the knowledge.</span>
   <span id="f000436">May that be truly said of us,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and all of us!</span>
   <span id="f000438">And so,</span>
   <span id="f000439">as Tiny Tim observed,</span>
   <span id="f000440">God bless Us,</span>
   <span id="f000441">Every One!</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

