<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Julie VW</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">A Cup of Tea</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Katherine Mansfield</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Rosemary Fell was not exactly beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000008">No,</span>
   <span id="f000009">you couldn’t have called her beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Pretty?</span>
   <span id="f000011">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000012">if you took her to pieces…</span>
   <span id="f000013">But why be so cruel as to take anyone to pieces?</span>
   <span id="f000014">She was young,</span>
   <span id="f000015">brilliant,</span>
   <span id="f000016">extremely modem,</span>
   <span id="f000017">exquisitely well dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000018">amazingly well read in the newest of the new books,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and her parties were the most delicious mixture of the really important people and…</span>
   <span id="f000020">artists - quaint creatures,</span>
   <span id="f000021">discoveries of hers,</span>
   <span id="f000022">some of them too terrifying for words,</span>
   <span id="f000023">but others quite presentable and amusing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">Rosemary had been married two years.</span>
   <span id="f000025">She had a duck of a boy.</span>
   <span id="f000026">No,</span>
   <span id="f000027">not Peter - Michael.</span>
   <span id="f000028">And her husband absolutely adored her.</span>
   <span id="f000029">They were rich,</span>
   <span id="f000030">really rich,</span>
   <span id="f000031">not just comfortably well off,</span>
   <span id="f000032">which is odious and stuffy and sounds like one’s grandparents.</span>
   <span id="f000033">But if Rosemary wanted to shop she would go to Paris as you and I would go to Bond Street .</span>
   <span id="f000034">If she wanted to buy flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000035">the car pulled up at that perfect shop in Regent Street,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and Rosemary inside the shop just gazed in her dazzled,</span>
   <span id="f000037">rather exotic way,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000039">“I want those and those and those.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Give me four bunches of those.</span>
   <span id="f000041">And that jar of roses.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000043">I’ll have all the roses in the jar.</span>
   <span id="f000044">No,</span>
   <span id="f000045">no lilac.</span>
   <span id="f000046">I hate lilac.</span>
   <span id="f000047">It’s got no shape.” The attendant bowed and put the lilac out of sight,</span>
   <span id="f000048">as though this was only too true;</span>
   <span id="f000049">lilac was dreadfully shapeless.</span>
   <span id="f000050">“Give me those stumpy little tulips.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Those red and white ones.” And she was followed to the car by a thin shop-girl staggering under an immense white paper armful that looked like a baby in long clothes…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">One winter afternoon she had been buying something in a little antique shop in Curzon Street .</span>
   <span id="f000053">It was a shop she liked.</span>
   <span id="f000054">For one thing,</span>
   <span id="f000055">one usually had it to oneself.</span>
   <span id="f000056">And then the man who kept it was ridiculously fond of serving her.</span>
   <span id="f000057">He beamed whenever she came in.</span>
   <span id="f000058">He clasped his hands;</span>
   <span id="f000059">he was so gratified he could scarcely speak.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Flattery,</span>
   <span id="f000061">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000062">All the same,</span>
   <span id="f000063">there was something…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000065">madam,” he would explain in his low respectful tones,</span>
   <span id="f000066">“I love my things.</span>
   <span id="f000067">I would rather not part with them than sell them to someone who does not appreciate them,</span>
   <span id="f000068">who has not that fine feeling which is so rare…</span>
   <span id="f000069">” And,</span>
   <span id="f000070">breathing deeply,</span>
   <span id="f000071">he unrolled a tiny square of blue velvet and pressed it on the glass counter with his pale finger-tips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">To-day it was a little box.</span>
   <span id="f000073">He had been keeping it for her.</span>
   <span id="f000074">He had shown it to nobody as yet.</span>
   <span id="f000075">An exquisite little enamel box with a glaze so fine it looked as though it had been baked in cream.</span>
   <span id="f000076">On the lid a minute creature stood under a flowery tree,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and a more minute creature still had her arms round his neck.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Her hat,</span>
   <span id="f000079">really no bigger than a geranium petal,</span>
   <span id="f000080">hung from a branch;</span>
   <span id="f000081">it had green ribbons.</span>
   <span id="f000082">And there was a pink cloud like a watchful cherub floating above their heads.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Rosemary took her hands out of her long gloves.</span>
   <span id="f000084">She always took off her gloves to examine such things.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000086">she liked it very much.</span>
   <span id="f000087">She loved it;</span>
   <span id="f000088">it was a great duck.</span>
   <span id="f000089">She must have it.</span>
   <span id="f000090">And,</span>
   <span id="f000091">turning the creamy box,</span>
   <span id="f000092">opening and shutting it,</span>
   <span id="f000093">she couldn’t help noticing how charming her hands were against the blue velvet.</span>
   <span id="f000094">The shopman,</span>
   <span id="f000095">in some dim cavern of his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000096">may have dared to think so too.</span>
   <span id="f000097">For he took a pencil,</span>
   <span id="f000098">leant over the counter,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and his pale,</span>
   <span id="f000100">bloodless fingers crept timidly towards those rosy,</span>
   <span id="f000101">flashing ones,</span>
   <span id="f000102">as he murmured gently:</span>
   <span id="f000103">“If I may venture to point out to madam,</span>
   <span id="f000104">the flowers on the little lady’s bodice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“Charming!” Rosemary admired the flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000106">But what was the price?</span>
   <span id="f000107">For a moment the shopman did not seem to hear.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Then a murmur reached her.</span>
   <span id="f000109">“Twenty-eight guineas,</span>
   <span id="f000110">madam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“Twenty-eight guineas.” Rosemary gave no sign.</span>
   <span id="f000112">She laid the little box down;</span>
   <span id="f000113">she buttoned her gloves again.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Twenty-eight guineas.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Even if one is rich…</span>
   <span id="f000116">She looked vague.</span>
   <span id="f000117">She stared at a plump tea-kettle like a plump hen above the shopman’s head,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and her voice was dreamy as she answered:</span>
   <span id="f000119">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000120">keep it for me - will you?</span>
   <span id="f000121">I’ll…</span>
   <span id="f000122">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">But the shopman had already bowed as though keeping it for her was all any human being could ask.</span>
   <span id="f000124">He would be willing,</span>
   <span id="f000125">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000126">to keep it for her for ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">The discreet door shut with a click.</span>
   <span id="f000128">She was outside on the step,</span>
   <span id="f000129">gazing at the winter afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Rain was falling,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and with the rain it seemed the dark came too,</span>
   <span id="f000132">spinning down like ashes.</span>
   <span id="f000133">There was a cold bitter taste in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and the new-lighted lamps looked sad.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Sad were the lights in the houses opposite.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Dimly they burned as if regretting something.</span>
   <span id="f000137">And people hurried by,</span>
   <span id="f000138">hidden under their hateful umbrellas.</span>
   <span id="f000139">Rosemary felt a strange pang.</span>
   <span id="f000140">She pressed her muff against her breast;</span>
   <span id="f000141">she wished she had the little box,</span>
   <span id="f000142">too,</span>
   <span id="f000143">to cling to.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Of course the car was there.</span>
   <span id="f000145">She’d only to cross the pavement.</span>
   <span id="f000146">But still she waited.</span>
   <span id="f000147">There are moments,</span>
   <span id="f000148">horrible moments in life,</span>
   <span id="f000149">when one emerges from shelter and looks out,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and it’s awful.</span>
   <span id="f000151">One oughtn’t to give way to them.</span>
   <span id="f000152">One ought to go home and have an extra-special tea.</span>
   <span id="f000153">But at the very instant of thinking that,</span>
   <span id="f000154">a young girl,</span>
   <span id="f000155">thin,</span>
   <span id="f000156">dark,</span>
   <span id="f000157">shadowy - where had she come from?</span>
   <span id="f000158">- was standing at Rosemary’s elbow and a voice like a sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000159">almost like a sob,</span>
   <span id="f000160">breathed:</span>
   <span id="f000161">“Madam,</span>
   <span id="f000162">may I speak to you a moment?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“Speak to me?” Rosemary turned.</span>
   <span id="f000164">She saw a little battered creature with enormous eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000165">someone quite young,</span>
   <span id="f000166">no older than herself,</span>
   <span id="f000167">who clutched at her coat-collar with reddened hands,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and shivered as though she had just come out of the water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“M-madam,</span>
   <span id="f000170">stammered the voice.</span>
   <span id="f000171">Would you let me have the price of a cup of tea?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“A cup of tea?” There was something simple,</span>
   <span id="f000173">sincere in that voice;</span>
   <span id="f000174">it wasn’t in the least the voice of a beggar.</span>
   <span id="f000175">“Then have you no money at all?” asked Rosemary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“None,</span>
   <span id="f000177">madam,” came the answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“How extraordinary!” Rosemary peered through the dusk and the girl gazed back at her.</span>
   <span id="f000179">How more than extraordinary!</span>
   <span id="f000180">And suddenly it seemed to Rosemary such an adventure.</span>
   <span id="f000181">It was like something out of a novel by Dostoevsky,</span>
   <span id="f000182">this meeting in the dusk.</span>
   <span id="f000183">Supposing she took the girl home?</span>
   <span id="f000184">Supposing she did do one of those things she was always reading about or seeing on the stage,</span>
   <span id="f000185">what would happen?</span>
   <span id="f000186">It would be thrilling.</span>
   <span id="f000187">And she heard herself saying afterwards to the amazement of her friends:</span>
   <span id="f000188">“I simply took her home with me,” as she stepped forward and said to that dim person beside her:</span>
   <span id="f000189">“Come home to tea with me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">The girl drew back startled.</span>
   <span id="f000191">She even stopped shivering for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Rosemary put out a hand and touched her arm.</span>
   <span id="f000193">“I mean it,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000194">smiling.</span>
   <span id="f000195">And she felt how simple and kind her smile was.</span>
   <span id="f000196">“Why won’t you?</span>
   <span id="f000197">Do.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Come home with me now in my car and have tea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“You - you don’t mean it,</span>
   <span id="f000200">madam,” said the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and there was pain in her voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“But I do,” cried Rosemary.</span>
   <span id="f000203">“I want you to.</span>
   <span id="f000204">To please me.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Come along.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">The girl put her fingers to her lips and her eyes devoured Rosemary.</span>
   <span id="f000207">“You’re - you’re not taking me to the police station?” she stammered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“The police station!” Rosemary laughed out.</span>
   <span id="f000209">“Why should I be so cruel?</span>
   <span id="f000210">No,</span>
   <span id="f000211">I only want to make you warm and to hear - anything you care to tell me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">Hungry people are easily led.</span>
   <span id="f000213">The footman held the door of the car open,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and a moment later they were skimming through the dusk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“There!” said Rosemary.</span>
   <span id="f000216">She had a feeling of triumph as she slipped her hand through the velvet strap.</span>
   <span id="f000217">She could have said,</span>
   <span id="f000218">“Now I’ve got you,” as she gazed at the little captive she had netted.</span>
   <span id="f000219">But of course she meant it kindly.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000221">more than kindly.</span>
   <span id="f000222">She was going to prove to this girl that - wonderful things did happen in life,</span>
   <span id="f000223">that - fairy godmothers were real,</span>
   <span id="f000224">that - rich people had hearts,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and that women were sisters.</span>
   <span id="f000226">She turned impulsively,</span>
   <span id="f000227">saying’.</span>
   <span id="f000228">“Don’t be frightened.</span>
   <span id="f000229">After all,</span>
   <span id="f000230">why shouldn’t you come back with me?</span>
   <span id="f000231">We’re both women.</span>
   <span id="f000232">If I’m the more fortunate,</span>
   <span id="f000233">you ought to expect…</span>
   <span id="f000234">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">But happily at that moment,</span>
   <span id="f000236">for she didn’t know how the sentence was going to end,</span>
   <span id="f000237">the car stopped.</span>
   <span id="f000238">The bell was rung,</span>
   <span id="f000239">the door opened,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and with a charming,</span>
   <span id="f000241">protecting,</span>
   <span id="f000242">almost embracing movement,</span>
   <span id="f000243">Rosemary drew the other into the hall.</span>
   <span id="f000244">Warmth,</span>
   <span id="f000245">softness,</span>
   <span id="f000246">light,</span>
   <span id="f000247">a sweet scent,</span>
   <span id="f000248">all those things so familiar to her she never even thought about them,</span>
   <span id="f000249">she watched that other receive.</span>
   <span id="f000250">It was fascinating.</span>
   <span id="f000251">She was like the rich little girl in her nursery with all the cupboards to open,</span>
   <span id="f000252">all the boxes to unpack.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000254">come upstairs,” said Rosemary,</span>
   <span id="f000255">longing to begin to be generous.</span>
   <span id="f000256">“Come up to my room.” And,</span>
   <span id="f000257">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000258">she wanted to spare this poor little thing from being stared at by the servants;</span>
   <span id="f000259">she decided as they mounted the stairs she would not even ring to Jeanne,</span>
   <span id="f000260">but take off her things by herself.</span>
   <span id="f000261">The great things were to be natural!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">And “There!” cried Rosemary again,</span>
   <span id="f000263">as they reached her beautiful big bedroom with the curtains drawn,</span>
   <span id="f000264">the fire leaping on her wonderful lacquer furniture,</span>
   <span id="f000265">her gold cushions and the primrose and blue rugs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">The girl stood just inside the door;</span>
   <span id="f000267">she seemed dazed.</span>
   <span id="f000268">But Rosemary didn’t mind that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Come and sit down,” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000270">dragging her big chair up to the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000271">“m this comfy chair.</span>
   <span id="f000272">Come and get warm.</span>
   <span id="f000273">You look so dreadfully cold.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“I daren’t,</span>
   <span id="f000275">madam,” said the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and she edged backwards.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000278">please,” - Rosemary ran forward - “you mustn’t be frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000279">you mustn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000280">really.</span>
   <span id="f000281">Sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000282">when I’ve taken off my things we shall go into the next room and have tea and be cozy.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Why are you afraid?” And gently she half pushed the thin figure into its deep cradle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">But there was no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000285">The girl stayed just as she had been put,</span>
   <span id="f000286">with her hands by her sides and her mouth slightly open.</span>
   <span id="f000287">To be quite sincere,</span>
   <span id="f000288">she looked rather stupid.</span>
   <span id="f000289">But Rosemary wouldn’t acknowledge it.</span>
   <span id="f000290">She leant over her,</span>
   <span id="f000291">saying:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“Won’t you take off your hat?</span>
   <span id="f000293">Your pretty hair is all wet.</span>
   <span id="f000294">And one is so much more comfortable without a hat,</span>
   <span id="f000295">isn’t one?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">There was a whisper that sounded like “Very good,</span>
   <span id="f000297">madam,” and the crushed hat was taken off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“And let me help you off with your coat,</span>
   <span id="f000299">too,” said Rosemary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">The girl stood up.</span>
   <span id="f000301">But she held on to the chair with one hand and let Rosemary pull.</span>
   <span id="f000302">It was quite an effort.</span>
   <span id="f000303">The other scarcely helped her at all.</span>
   <span id="f000304">She seemed to stagger like a child,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and the thought came and went through Rosemary’s mind,</span>
   <span id="f000306">that if people wanted helping they must respond a little,</span>
   <span id="f000307">just a little,</span>
   <span id="f000308">otherwise it became very difficult indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000309">And what was she to do with the coat now?</span>
   <span id="f000310">She left it on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and the hat too.</span>
   <span id="f000312">She was just going to take a cigarette off the mantelpiece when the girl said quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000313">but so lightly and strangely:</span>
   <span id="f000314">“I’m very sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000315">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000316">but I’m going to faint.</span>
   <span id="f000317">I shall go off,</span>
   <span id="f000318">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000319">if I don’t have something.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“Good heavens,</span>
   <span id="f000321">how thoughtless I am!” Rosemary rushed to the bell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“Tea!</span>
   <span id="f000323">Tea at once!</span>
   <span id="f000324">And some brandy immediately!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">The maid was gone again,</span>
   <span id="f000326">but the girl almost cried out:</span>
   <span id="f000327">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000328">I don’t want no brandy.* I never drink brandy.</span>
   <span id="f000329">It’s a cup of tea I want,</span>
   <span id="f000330">madam.” And she burst into tears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">It was a terrible and fascinating moment.</span>
   <span id="f000332">Rosemary knelt beside her chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“Don’t cry,</span>
   <span id="f000334">poor little thing,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000335">“Don’t cry.” And she gave the other her lace handkerchief.</span>
   <span id="f000336">She really was touched beyond words.</span>
   <span id="f000337">She put her arm round those thin,</span>
   <span id="f000338">bird-like shoulders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">Now at last the other forgot to be shy,</span>
   <span id="f000340">forgot everything except that they were both women,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and gasped out:</span>
   <span id="f000342">“I can’t go on no longer like this.</span>
   <span id="f000343">I can’t bear it.</span>
   <span id="f000344">I can’t bear it.</span>
   <span id="f000345">I shall do away with myself.</span>
   <span id="f000346">I can’t bear no more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">“You shan’t have to.</span>
   <span id="f000348">I’ll look after you.</span>
   <span id="f000349">Don’t cry any more.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Don’t you see what a good thing it was that you met me?</span>
   <span id="f000351">We’ll have tea and you’ll tell me everything.</span>
   <span id="f000352">And I shall arrange something.</span>
   <span id="f000353">I promise.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Do stop crying.</span>
   <span id="f000355">It’s so exhausting.</span>
   <span id="f000356">Please!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">The other did stop just in time for Rosemary to get up before the tea came.</span>
   <span id="f000358">She had the table placed between them.</span>
   <span id="f000359">She plied the poor little creature with everything,</span>
   <span id="f000360">all the sandwiches,</span>
   <span id="f000361">all the bread and butter,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and every time her cup was empty she filled it with tea,</span>
   <span id="f000363">cream and sugar.</span>
   <span id="f000364">People always said sugar was so nourishing.</span>
   <span id="f000365">As for herself she didn’t eat;</span>
   <span id="f000366">she smoked and looked away tactfully so that the other should not be shy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">And really the effect of that slight meal was marvelous.</span>
   <span id="f000368">When the tea-table was carried away a new being,</span>
   <span id="f000369">a light,</span>
   <span id="f000370">frail creature with tangled hair,</span>
   <span id="f000371">dark lips,</span>
   <span id="f000372">deep,</span>
   <span id="f000373">lighted eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000374">lay back in the big chair in a kind of sweet languor,</span>
   <span id="f000375">looking at the blaze.</span>
   <span id="f000376">Rosemary lit a fresh cigarette;</span>
   <span id="f000377">it was time to begin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">“And when did you have your last meal?” she asked softly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">But at that moment the door-handle turned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">“Rosemary,</span>
   <span id="f000381">may I come in?” It was Philip.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">“Of course.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">He came in.</span>
   <span id="f000384">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000385">I’m so sorry,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and stopped and stared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">“It’s quite all right,” said Rosemary,</span>
   <span id="f000388">smiling.</span>
   <span id="f000389">“This is my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000390">Miss _”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“Smith,</span>
   <span id="f000392">madam,” said the languid figure,</span>
   <span id="f000393">who was strangely still and unafraid.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“Smith,” said Rosemary.</span>
   <span id="f000395">“We are going to have a little talk.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“Oh yes,” said Philip.</span>
   <span id="f000397">“Quite,” and his eye caught sight of the coat and hat on the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000398">He came over to the fire and turned his back to it.</span>
   <span id="f000399">“It’s a beastly afternoon,” he said curiously,</span>
   <span id="f000400">still looking at that listless figure,</span>
   <span id="f000401">looking at its hands and boots,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and then at Rosemary again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000404">isn’t it?” said Rosemary enthusiastically.</span>
   <span id="f000405">“Vile.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">Philip smiled his charming smile.</span>
   <span id="f000407">“As a matter of fact,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000408">“I wanted you to come into the library for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Would you?</span>
   <span id="f000410">Will Miss Smith excuse us?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">The big eyes were raised to him,</span>
   <span id="f000412">but Rosemary answered for her:</span>
   <span id="f000413">“Of course she will.” And they went out of the room together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“I say,” said Philip,</span>
   <span id="f000415">when they were alone.</span>
   <span id="f000416">“Explain.</span>
   <span id="f000417">Who is she?</span>
   <span id="f000418">What does it all mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">Rosemary,</span>
   <span id="f000420">laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000421">leaned against the door and said:</span>
   <span id="f000422">“I picked her up in Curzon Street .</span>
   <span id="f000423">Really.</span>
   <span id="f000424">She’s a real pick-up.</span>
   <span id="f000425">She asked me for the price of a cup of tea,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and I brought her home with me.</span>
   <span id="f000427">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">“But what on earth are you going to do with her?” cried Philip.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">“Be nice to her,” said Rosemary quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000430">“Be frightfully nice to her.</span>
   <span id="f000431">Look after her.</span>
   <span id="f000432">I don’t know how.</span>
   <span id="f000433">We haven’t talked yet.</span>
   <span id="f000434">But show her - treat her - make her feel -”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">“My darling girl,” said Philip,</span>
   <span id="f000436">“you’re quite mad,</span>
   <span id="f000437">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000438">It simply can’t be done.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">“I knew you’d say that,” retorted Rosemary.</span>
   <span id="f000440">Why not?</span>
   <span id="f000441">I want to.</span>
   <span id="f000442">Isn’t that a reason?</span>
   <span id="f000443">And besides,</span>
   <span id="f000444">one’s always reading about these things.</span>
   <span id="f000445">I decided -"</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">“But,” said Philip slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and he cut the end of a cigar,</span>
   <span id="f000448">“she’s so astonishingly pretty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“Pretty?” Rosemary was so surprised that she blushed.</span>
   <span id="f000450">“Do you think so?</span>
   <span id="f000451">I - I hadn’t thought about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">“Good Lord!” Philip struck a match.</span>
   <span id="f000453">“She’s absolutely lovely.</span>
   <span id="f000454">Look again,</span>
   <span id="f000455">my child.</span>
   <span id="f000456">I was bowled over when I came into your room just now.</span>
   <span id="f000457">However…</span>
   <span id="f000458">I think you’re making a ghastly mistake.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Sorry,</span>
   <span id="f000460">darling,</span>
   <span id="f000461">if I’m crude and all that.</span>
   <span id="f000462">But let me know if Miss Smith is going to dine with us in time for me to look up The Milliner’s Gazette.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">“You absurd creature!” said Rosemary,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and she went out of the library,</span>
   <span id="f000465">but not back to her bedroom.</span>
   <span id="f000466">She went to her writing-room and sat down at her desk.</span>
   <span id="f000467">Pretty!</span>
   <span id="f000468">Absolutely lovely!</span>
   <span id="f000469">Bowled over!</span>
   <span id="f000470">Her heart beat like a heavy bell.</span>
   <span id="f000471">Pretty!</span>
   <span id="f000472">Lovely!</span>
   <span id="f000473">She drew her check-book towards her.</span>
   <span id="f000474">But no,</span>
   <span id="f000475">checks would be no use,</span>
   <span id="f000476">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000477">She opened a drawer and took out five pound notes,</span>
   <span id="f000478">looked at them,</span>
   <span id="f000479">put two back,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and holding the three squeezed in her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000481">she went back to her bedroom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">Half an hour later Philip was still in the library,</span>
   <span id="f000483">when Rosemary came in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“I only wanted to tell you,” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and she leaned against the door again and looked at him with her dazzled exotic gaze,</span>
   <span id="f000486">“Miss Smith won’t dine with us to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">Philip put down the paper.</span>
   <span id="f000488">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000489">what’s happened?</span>
   <span id="f000490">Previous engagement?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">Rosemary came over and sat down on his knee.</span>
   <span id="f000492">“She insisted on going,” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000493">“so I gave the poor little thing a present of money.</span>
   <span id="f000494">I couldn’t keep her against her will,</span>
   <span id="f000495">could I?” she added softly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">Rosemary had just done her hair,</span>
   <span id="f000497">darkened her eyes a little and put on her pearls.</span>
   <span id="f000498">She put up her hands and touched Philip’s cheeks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“Do you like me?” said she,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and her tone,</span>
   <span id="f000501">sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000502">husky,</span>
   <span id="f000503">troubled him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">“I like you awfully,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and he held her tighter.</span>
   <span id="f000506">“Kiss me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">There was a pause.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000508">Then Rosemary said dreamily:</span>
   <span id="f000509">“I saw a fascinating little box to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000510">It cost twenty-eight guineas.</span>
   <span id="f000511">May I have it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">Philip jumped her on his knee.</span>
   <span id="f000513">“You may,</span>
   <span id="f000514">little wasteful one,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">But that was not really what Rosemary wanted to say.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">“Philip,” she whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and she pressed his head against her bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000518">“am I pretty?”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

