<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>mb</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Flappers and Philosophers</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />F. Scott Fitzgerald</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">The Offshore Pirate</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000008">I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000009">This unlikely story begins on a sea that was a blue dream,</span>
   <span id="f000010">as colorful as blue-silk stockings,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and beneath a sky as blue as the irises of children’s eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000012">From the western half of the sky the sun was shying little golden disks at the sea – if you gazed intently enough you could see them skip from wave tip to wave tip until they joined a broad collar of golden coin that was collecting half a mile out and would eventually be a dazzling sunset.</span>
   <span id="f000013">About half-way between the Florida shore and the golden collar a white steam-yacht,</span>
   <span id="f000014">very young and graceful,</span>
   <span id="f000015">was riding at anchor and under a blue-and-white awning aft a yellow-haired girl reclined in a wicker settee reading The Revolt of the Angels,</span>
   <span id="f000016">by Anatole France.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">She was about nineteen,</span>
   <span id="f000018">slender and supple,</span>
   <span id="f000019">with a spoiled alluring mouth and quick gray eyes full of a radiant curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Her feet,</span>
   <span id="f000021">stockingless,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and adorned rather than clad in blue-satin slippers which swung nonchalantly from her toes,</span>
   <span id="f000023">were perched on the arm of a settee adjoining the one she occupied.</span>
   <span id="f000024">And as she read she intermittently regaled herself by a faint application to her tongue of a half-lemon that she held in her hand.</span>
   <span id="f000025">The other half,</span>
   <span id="f000026">sucked dry,</span>
   <span id="f000027">lay on the deck at her feet and rocked very gently to and fro at the almost imperceptible motion of the tide.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">The second half-lemon was well-nigh pulpless and the golden collar had grown astonishing in width,</span>
   <span id="f000029">when suddenly the drowsy silence which enveloped the yacht was broken by the sound of heavy footsteps and an elderly man topped with orderly gray hair and clad in a white-flannel suit appeared at the head of the companionway.</span>
   <span id="f000030">There he paused for a moment until his eyes became accustomed to the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and then seeing the girl under the awning he uttered a long even grunt of disapproval.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">If he had intended thereby to obtain a rise of any sort he was doomed to disappointment.</span>
   <span id="f000033">The girl calmly turned over two pages,</span>
   <span id="f000034">turned back one,</span>
   <span id="f000035">raised the lemon mechanically to tasting distance,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and then very faintly but quite unmistakably yawned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">“Ardita!” said the gray-haired man sternly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">Ardita uttered a small sound indicating nothing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“Ardita!” he repeated.</span>
   <span id="f000040">“Ardita!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">Ardita raised the lemon languidly,</span>
   <span id="f000042">allowing three words to slip out before it reached her tongue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000044">shut up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">“Ardita!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“What?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“Will you listen to me – or will I have to get a servant to hold you while I talk to you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">The lemon descended very slowly and scornfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">“Put it in writing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“Will you have the decency to close that abominable book and discard that damn lemon for two minutes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000052">can’t you lemme alone for a second?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000054">I have just received a telephone message from the shore – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">“Telephone?” She showed for the first time a faint interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000057">it was – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Do you mean to say,” she interrupted wonderingly,</span>
   <span id="f000059">“’at they let you run a wire out here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and just now – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">“Won’t other boats bump into it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000064">It’s run along the bottom.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Five min – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000067">I’ll be darned!</span>
   <span id="f000068">Gosh!</span>
   <span id="f000069">Science is golden or something – isn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“Will you let me say what I started to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“Shoot!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">“Well it seems – well,</span>
   <span id="f000073">I am up here – ” He paused and swallowed several times distractedly.</span>
   <span id="f000074">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000075">yes.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Young woman,</span>
   <span id="f000077">Colonel Moreland has called up again to ask me to be sure to bring you in to dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000078">His son Toby has come all the way from New York to meet you and he’s invited several other young people.</span>
   <span id="f000079">For the last time,</span>
   <span id="f000080">will you – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“No,” said Ardita shortly,</span>
   <span id="f000082">“I won’t.</span>
   <span id="f000083">I came along on this darn cruise with the one idea of going to Palm Beach,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and you knew it,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and I absolutely refuse to meet any darn old colonel or any darn young Toby or any darn old young people or to set foot in any other darn old town in this crazy state.</span>
   <span id="f000086">So you either take me to Palm Beach or else shut up and go away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">“Very well.</span>
   <span id="f000088">This is the last straw.</span>
   <span id="f000089">In your infatuation for this man.</span>
   <span id="f000090">– a man who is notorious for his excesses – a man your father would not have allowed to so much as mention your name – you have rejected the demi-monde rather than the circles in which you have presumably grown up.</span>
   <span id="f000091">From now on – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“I know,” interrupted Ardita ironically,</span>
   <span id="f000093">“from now on you go your way and I go mine.</span>
   <span id="f000094">I’ve heard that story before.</span>
   <span id="f000095">You know I’d like nothing better.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“From now on,” he announced grandiloquently,</span>
   <span id="f000097">“you are no niece of mine.</span>
   <span id="f000098">I – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“O-o-o-oh!” The cry was wrung from Ardita with the agony of a lost soul.</span>
   <span id="f000100">“Will you stop boring me!</span>
   <span id="f000101">Will you go ’way!</span>
   <span id="f000102">Will you jump overboard and drown!</span>
   <span id="f000103">Do you want me to throw this book at you!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“If you dare do any – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">Smack!</span>
   <span id="f000106">The Revolt of the Angels sailed through the air,</span>
   <span id="f000107">missed its target by the length of a short nose,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and bumped cheerfully down the companionway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">The gray-haired man made an instinctive step backward and then two cautious steps forward.</span>
   <span id="f000110">Ardita jumped to her five feet four and stared at him defiantly,</span>
   <span id="f000111">her gray eyes blazing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“Keep off!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“How dare you!” he cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“Because I darn please!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“You’ve grown unbearable!</span>
   <span id="f000116">Your disposition – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“You’ve made me that way!</span>
   <span id="f000118">No child ever has a bad disposition unless it’s her fancy’s fault!</span>
   <span id="f000119">Whatever I am,</span>
   <span id="f000120">you did it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">Muttering something under his breath her uncle turned and,</span>
   <span id="f000122">walking forward called in a loud voice for the launch.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Then he returned to the awning,</span>
   <span id="f000124">where Ardita had again seated herself and resumed her attention to the lemon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">“I am going ashore,” he said slowly.</span>
   <span id="f000126">“I will be out again at nine o’clock to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000127">When I return we start back to New York,</span>
   <span id="f000128">wither I shall turn you over to your aunt for the rest of your natural,</span>
   <span id="f000129">or rather unnatural,</span>
   <span id="f000130">life.” He paused and looked at her,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and then all at once something in the utter childness of her beauty seemed to puncture his anger like an inflated tire,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and render him helpless,</span>
   <span id="f000133">uncertain,</span>
   <span id="f000134">utterly fatuous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“Ardita,” he said not unkindly,</span>
   <span id="f000136">“I’m no fool.</span>
   <span id="f000137">I’ve been round.</span>
   <span id="f000138">I know men.</span>
   <span id="f000139">And,</span>
   <span id="f000140">child,</span>
   <span id="f000141">confirmed libertines don’t reform until they’re tired – and then they’re not themselves – they’re husks of themselves.” He looked at her as if expecting agreement,</span>
   <span id="f000142">but receiving no sight or sound of it he continued.</span>
   <span id="f000143">“Perhaps the man loves you – that’s possible.</span>
   <span id="f000144">He’s loved many women and he’ll love many more.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Less than a month ago,</span>
   <span id="f000146">one month,</span>
   <span id="f000147">Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000148">he was involved in a notorious affair with that red-haired woman,</span>
   <span id="f000149">Mimi Merril;</span>
   <span id="f000150">promised to give her the diamond bracelet that the Czar of Russia gave his mother.</span>
   <span id="f000151">You know – you read the papers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“Thrilling scandals by an anxious uncle,” yawned Ardita.</span>
   <span id="f000153">“Have it filmed.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Wicked clubman making eyes at virtuous flapper.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Virtuous flapper conclusively vamped by his lurid past.</span>
   <span id="f000156">Plans to meet him at Palm Beach.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Foiled by anxious uncle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">“Will you tell me why the devil you want to marry him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“I’m sure I couldn’t say,” said Audits shortly.</span>
   <span id="f000160">“Maybe because he’s the only man I know,</span>
   <span id="f000161">good or bad,</span>
   <span id="f000162">who has an imagination and the courage of his convictions.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Maybe it’s to get away from the young fools that spend their vacuous hours pursuing me around the country.</span>
   <span id="f000164">But as for the famous Russian bracelet,</span>
   <span id="f000165">you can set your mind at rest on that score.</span>
   <span id="f000166">He’s going to give it to me at Palm Beach – if you’ll show a little intelligence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“How about the – red-haired woman?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“He hasn’t seen her for six months,” she said angrily.</span>
   <span id="f000169">“Don’t you suppose I have enough pride to see to that?</span>
   <span id="f000170">Don’t you know by this time that I can do any darn thing with any darn man I want to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">She put her chin in the air like the statue of France Aroused,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and then spoiled the pose somewhat by raising the lemon for action.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Is it the Russian bracelet that fascinates you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000175">I’m merely trying to give you the sort of argument that would appeal to your intelligence.</span>
   <span id="f000176">And I wish you’d go ’way,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000177">her temper rising again.</span>
   <span id="f000178">“You know I never change my mind.</span>
   <span id="f000179">You’ve been boring me for three days until I’m about to go crazy.</span>
   <span id="f000180">I won’t go ashore!</span>
   <span id="f000181">Won’t!</span>
   <span id="f000182">Do you hear?</span>
   <span id="f000183">Won’t!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“Very well,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000185">“and you won’t go to Palm Beach either.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Of all the selfish,</span>
   <span id="f000187">spoiled,</span>
   <span id="f000188">uncontrolled disagreeable,</span>
   <span id="f000189">impossible girl I have – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">Splush!</span>
   <span id="f000191">The half-lemon caught him in the neck.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Simultaneously came a hail from over the side.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“The launch is ready,</span>
   <span id="f000194">Mr.&#160;Farnam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">Too full of words and rage to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000196">Mr.&#160;Farnam cast one utterly condemning glance at his niece and,</span>
   <span id="f000197">turning,</span>
   <span id="f000198">ran swiftly down the ladder.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000199">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000200">Five o’clock robed down from the sun and plumped soundlessly into the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000201">The golden collar widened into a glittering island;</span>
   <span id="f000202">and a faint breeze that had been playing with the edges of the awning and swaying one of the dangling blue slippers became suddenly freighted with song.</span>
   <span id="f000203">It was a chorus of men in close harmony and in perfect rhythm to an accompanying sound of oars dealing the blue writers.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Ardita lifted her head and listened.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000205">“Carrots and Peas,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000206">Beans on their knees,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000207">Pigs in the seas,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000208">Lucky fellows!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000209">Blow us a breeze,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000210">Blow us a breeze,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000211">Blow us a breeze,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000212">With your bellows.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000213">Ardita’s brow wrinkled in astonishment.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Sitting very still she listened eagerly as the chorus took up a second verse.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000215">“Onions and beans,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000216">Marshalls and Deans,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000217">Goldbergs and Greens<br /></span>
   <span id="f000218">And Costellos.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000219">Blow us a breeze,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000220">Blow us a breeze,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000221">Blow us a breeze,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000222">With your bellows.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000223">With an exclamation she tossed her book to the desk,</span>
   <span id="f000224">where it sprawled at a straddle,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and hurried to the rail.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Fifty feet away a large rowboat was approaching containing seven men,</span>
   <span id="f000227">six of them rowing and one standing up in the stern keeping time to their song with an orchestra leader’s baton.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000228">“Oysters and Rocks,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000229">Sawdust and socks,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000230">Who could make clocks<br /></span>
   <span id="f000231">Out of cellos?</span>
   <span id="f000232">– ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000233">The leader’s eyes suddenly rested on Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000234">who was leaning over the rail spellbound with curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000235">He made a quick movement with his baton and the singing instantly ceased.</span>
   <span id="f000236">She saw that he was the only white man in the boat – the six rowers were negroes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“Narcissus ahoy!” he called politely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“What’s the idea of all the discord?” demanded Ardita cheerfully.</span>
   <span id="f000239">“Is this the varsity crew from the county nut farm?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">By this time the boat was scraping the side of the yacht and a great bulking negro in the bow turned round and grasped the ladder.</span>
   <span id="f000241">Thereupon the leader left his position in the stern and before Ardita had realized his intention he ran up the ladder and stood breathless before her on the deck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“The women and children will be spared!” he said briskly.</span>
   <span id="f000243">“All crying babies will be immediately drowned and all males put in double irons!” Digging her hands excitedly down into the pockets of her dress Ardita stared at him,</span>
   <span id="f000244">speechless with astonishment.</span>
   <span id="f000245">He was a young man with a scornful mouth and the bright blue eyes of a healthy baby set in a dark sensitive face.</span>
   <span id="f000246">His hair was pitch black,</span>
   <span id="f000247">damp and curly – the hair of a Grecian statue gone brunette.</span>
   <span id="f000248">He was trimly built,</span>
   <span id="f000249">trimly dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and graceful as an agile quarter-back.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000252">I’ll be a son of a gun!” she said dazedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">They eyed each other coolly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“Do you surrender the ship?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“Is this an outburst of wit?” demanded Ardita.</span>
   <span id="f000256">“Are you an idiot – or just being initiated to some fraternity?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">“I asked you if you surrendered the ship.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“I thought the country was dry,” said Ardita disdainfully.</span>
   <span id="f000259">“Have you been drinking finger-nail enamel?</span>
   <span id="f000260">You better get off this yacht!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“What?” the young man’s voice expressed incredulity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“Get off the yacht!</span>
   <span id="f000263">You heard me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">He looked at her for a moment as if considering what she had said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“No,” said his scornful mouth slowly;</span>
   <span id="f000266">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000267">I won’t get off the yacht.</span>
   <span id="f000268">You can get off if you wish.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">Going to the rail be gave a curt command and immediately the crew of the rowboat scrambled up the ladder and ranged themselves in line before him,</span>
   <span id="f000270">a coal-black and burly darky at one end and a miniature mulatto of four feet nine at to other.</span>
   <span id="f000271">They seemed to be uniformly dressed in some sort of blue costume ornamented with dust,</span>
   <span id="f000272">mud,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and tatters;</span>
   <span id="f000274">over the shoulder of each was slung a small,</span>
   <span id="f000275">heavy-looking white sack,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and under their arms they carried large black cases apparently containing musical instruments.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“’Ten-SHUN!” commanded the young man,</span>
   <span id="f000278">snapping his own heels together crisply.</span>
   <span id="f000279">“Right DRISS!</span>
   <span id="f000280">Front!</span>
   <span id="f000281">Step out here,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Babe!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">The smallest Negro took a quick step forward and saluted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">“Take command,</span>
   <span id="f000285">go down below,</span>
   <span id="f000286">catch the crew and tie ’em up – all except the engineer.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Bring him up to me.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and pile those bags by the rail there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“Yas-suh!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">Babe saluted again and wheeling about motioned for the five others to gather about him.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Then after a short whispered consultation they all filed noiselessly down the companionway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“Now,” said the young man cheerfully to Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000294">who had witnessed this last scene in withering silence,</span>
   <span id="f000295">“if you will swear on your honor as a flapper – which probably isn’t worth much – that you’ll keep that spoiled little mouth of yours tight shut for forty-eight hours,</span>
   <span id="f000296">you can row yourself ashore in our rowboat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“Otherwise what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“Otherwise you’re going to sea in a ship.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">With a little sigh as for a crisis well passed,</span>
   <span id="f000300">the young man sank into the settee Ardita had lately vacated and stretched his arms lazily.</span>
   <span id="f000301">The corners of his mouth relaxed appreciatively as he looked round at the rich striped awning,</span>
   <span id="f000302">the polished brass,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and the luxurious fittings of the deck.</span>
   <span id="f000304">His eye felt on the book,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and then on the exhausted lemon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“Hm,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000307">“Stonewall Jackson claimed that lemon-juice cleared his head.</span>
   <span id="f000308">Your head feel pretty clear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">Ardita disdained to answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">“Because inside of five minutes you’ll have to make a clear decision whether it’s go or stay.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">He picked up the book and opened it curiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“The Revolt of the Angels.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Sounds pretty good.</span>
   <span id="f000314">French,</span>
   <span id="f000315">eh?” He stared at her with new interest “You French?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“No.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“What’s your name?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“Farnam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“Farnam what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“Ardita Farnam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“Well Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000322">no use standing up there and chewing out the insides of your mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000323">You ought to break those nervous habits while you’re young.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Come over here and sit down.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">Ardita took a carved jade case from her pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000326">extracted a cigarette and lit it with a conscious coolness,</span>
   <span id="f000327">though she knew her hand was trembling a little;</span>
   <span id="f000328">then she crossed over with her supple,</span>
   <span id="f000329">swinging walk,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and sitting down in the other settee blew a mouthful of smoke at the awning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“You can’t get me off this yacht,” she raid steadily;</span>
   <span id="f000332">“and you haven’t got very much sense if you think you’ll get far with it.</span>
   <span id="f000333">My uncle’ll have wirelesses zigzagging all over this ocean by half past six.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Hm.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">She looked quickly at his face,</span>
   <span id="f000336">caught anxiety stamped there plainly in the faintest depression of the mouth’s corners.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“It’s all the same to me,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000338">shrugging her shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000339">“’Tisn’t my yacht.</span>
   <span id="f000340">I don’t mind going for a coupla hours’ cruise.</span>
   <span id="f000341">I’ll even lend you that book so you’ll have something to read on the revenue boat that takes you up to Sing-Sing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">He laughed scornfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">“If that’s advice you needn’t bother.</span>
   <span id="f000344">This is part of a plan arranged before I ever knew this yacht existed.</span>
   <span id="f000345">If it hadn’t been this one it’d have been the next one we passed anchored along the coast.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">“Who are you?” demanded Ardita suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f000347">“And what are you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“You’ve decided not to go ashore?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“I never even faintly considered it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“We’re generally known,” he said “all seven of us,</span>
   <span id="f000351">as Curtis Carlyle and his Six Black Buddies late of the Winter Garden and the Midnight Frolic.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">“You’re singers?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">“We were until to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000354">At present,</span>
   <span id="f000355">due to those white bags you see there we’re fugitives from justice and if the reward offered for our capture hasn’t by this time reached twenty thousand dollars I miss my guess.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“What’s in the bags?” asked Ardita curiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“Well,” he said “for the present we’ll call it – mud – Florida mud.”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000358">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000359">Within ten minutes after Curtis Carlyle’s interview with a very frightened engineer the yacht Narcissus was under way,</span>
   <span id="f000360">steaming south through a balmy tropical twilight.</span>
   <span id="f000361">The little mulatto,</span>
   <span id="f000362">Babe,</span>
   <span id="f000363">who seems to have Carlyle’s implicit confidence,</span>
   <span id="f000364">took full command of the situation.</span>
   <span id="f000365">Mr.&#160;Farnam’s valet and the chef,</span>
   <span id="f000366">the only members of the crew on board except the engineer,</span>
   <span id="f000367">having shown fight,</span>
   <span id="f000368">were now reconsidering,</span>
   <span id="f000369">strapped securely to their bunks below.</span>
   <span id="f000370">Trombone Mose,</span>
   <span id="f000371">the biggest negro,</span>
   <span id="f000372">was set busy with a can of paint obliterating the name Narcissus from the bow,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and substituting the name Hula Hula,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and the others congregated aft and became intently involved in a game of craps.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">Having given order for a meal to be prepared and served on deck at seven-thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000376">Carlyle rejoined Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and,</span>
   <span id="f000378">sinking back into his settee,</span>
   <span id="f000379">half closed his eyes and fell into a state of profound abstraction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">Ardita scrutinized him carefully – and classed him immediately as a romantic figure.</span>
   <span id="f000381">He gave the effect of towering self-confidence erected on a slight foundation – just under the surface of each of his decisions she discerned a hesitancy that was in decided contrast to the arrogant curl of his lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">“He’s not like me,” she thought “There’s a difference somewhere.” Being a supreme egotist Ardita frequently thought about herself;</span>
   <span id="f000383">never having had her egotism disputed she did it entirely naturally and with no detraction from her unquestioned charm.</span>
   <span id="f000384">Though she was nineteen she gave the effect of a high-spirited precocious child,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and in the present glow of her youth and beauty all the men and women she had known were but driftwood on the ripples of her temperament.</span>
   <span id="f000386">She had met other egotists – in fact she found that selfish people bored her rather less than unselfish people – but as yet there had not been one she had not eventually defeated and brought to her feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">But though she recognized an egotist in the settee,</span>
   <span id="f000388">she felt none of that usual shutting of doors in her mind which meant clearing ship for action;</span>
   <span id="f000389">on the contrary her instinct told her that this man was somehow completely pregnable and quite defenseless.</span>
   <span id="f000390">When Ardita defied convention – and of late it had been her chief amusement – it was from an intense desire to be herself,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and she felt that this man,</span>
   <span id="f000392">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000393">was preoccupied with his own defiance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">She was much more interested in him than she was in her own situation,</span>
   <span id="f000395">which affected her as the prospect of a matineé might affect a ten-year-old child.</span>
   <span id="f000396">She had implicit confidence in her ability to take care of herself under any and all circumstances.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">The night deepened.</span>
   <span id="f000398">A pale new moon smiled misty-eyed upon the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and as the shore faded dimly out and dark clouds were blown like leaves along the far horizon a great haze of moonshine suddenly bathed the yacht and spread an avenue of glittering mail in her swift path.</span>
   <span id="f000400">From time to time there was the bright flare of a match as one of them lighted a cigarette,</span>
   <span id="f000401">but except for the low under-tone of the throbbing engines and the even wash of the waves about the stern the yacht was quiet as a dream boat star-bound through the heavens.</span>
   <span id="f000402">Round them bowed the smell of the night sea,</span>
   <span id="f000403">bringing with it an infinite languor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">Carlyle broke the silence at last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Lucky girl,” he sighed “I’ve always wanted to be rich – and buy all this beauty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">Ardita yawned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“I’d rather be you,” she said frankly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“You would – for about a day.</span>
   <span id="f000409">But you do seem to possess a lot of nerve for a flapper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“I wish you wouldn’t call me that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“Beg your pardon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">“As to nerve,” she continued slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000413">“it’s my one redeemiug feature.</span>
   <span id="f000414">I’m not afraid of anything in heaven or earth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">“Hm,</span>
   <span id="f000416">I am.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">“To be afraid,” said Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000418">“a person has either to be very great and strong – or else a coward.</span>
   <span id="f000419">I’m neither.” She paused for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and eagerness crept into her tone.</span>
   <span id="f000421">“But I want to talk about you.</span>
   <span id="f000422">What on earth have you done – and how did you do it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“Why?” he demanded cynically.</span>
   <span id="f000424">“Going to write a movie,</span>
   <span id="f000425">about me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“Go on,” she urged.</span>
   <span id="f000427">“Lie to me by the moonlight.</span>
   <span id="f000428">Do a fabulous story.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">A negro appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000430">switched on a string of small lights under the awning,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and began setting the wicker table for supper.</span>
   <span id="f000432">And while they ate cold sliced chicken,</span>
   <span id="f000433">salad,</span>
   <span id="f000434">artichokes and strawberry jam from the plentiful larder below,</span>
   <span id="f000435">Carlyle began to talk,</span>
   <span id="f000436">hesitatingly at first,</span>
   <span id="f000437">but eagerly as he saw she was interested.</span>
   <span id="f000438">Ardita scarcely touched her food as she watched his dark young face – handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000439">ironic faintly ineffectual.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">He began life as a poor kid in a Tennessee town,</span>
   <span id="f000441">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000442">so poor that his people were the only white family in their street.</span>
   <span id="f000443">He never remembered any white children – but there were inevitably a dozen pickaninnies streaming in his trail,</span>
   <span id="f000444">passionate admirers whom he kept in tow by the vividness of his imagination and the amount of trouble he was always getting them in and out of.</span>
   <span id="f000445">And it seemed that this association diverted a rather unusual musical gift into a strange channel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">There had been a colored woman named Belle Pope Calhoun who played the piano at parties given for white children – nice white children that would have passed Curtis Carlyle with a sniff.</span>
   <span id="f000447">But the ragged little “poh white” used to sit beside her piano by the hour and try to get in an alto with one of those kazoos that boys hum through.</span>
   <span id="f000448">Before he was thirteen he was picking up a living teasing ragtime out of a battered violin in little cafés round Nashville.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Eight years later the ragtime craze hit the country,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and he took six darkies on the Orpheum circuit.</span>
   <span id="f000451">Five of them were boys he had grown up with;</span>
   <span id="f000452">the other was the little mulatto,</span>
   <span id="f000453">Babe Divine,</span>
   <span id="f000454">who was a wharf nigger round New York,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and long before that a plantation hand in Bermuda,</span>
   <span id="f000456">until he stuck an eight-inch stiletto in his master’s back.</span>
   <span id="f000457">Almost before Carlyle realized his good fortune he was on Broadway,</span>
   <span id="f000458">with offers of engagements on all sides,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and more money than he had ever dreamed of.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">It was about then that a change began in his whole attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000461">a rather curious,</span>
   <span id="f000462">embittering change.</span>
   <span id="f000463">It was when he realized that he was spending the golden years of his life gibbering round a stage with a lot of black men.</span>
   <span id="f000464">His act was good of its kind – three trombones,</span>
   <span id="f000465">three saxaphones,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and Carlyle’s flute – and it was his own peculiar sense of rhythm that made all the difference;</span>
   <span id="f000467">but he began to grow strangely sensitive about it,</span>
   <span id="f000468">began to hate the thought of appearing,</span>
   <span id="f000469">dreaded it from day to day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">They were making money – each contract he signed called for more – but when he went to managers and told them that he wanted to separate from his sextet and go on as a regular pianist,</span>
   <span id="f000471">they laughed at him and told him he was crazy – it would be an artistic suicide.</span>
   <span id="f000472">He used to laugh afterward at the phrase “artistic suicide.” They all used it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">Half a dozen times they played at private dances at three thousand dollars a night,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and it seemed as if these crystallized all his distaste for his mode of livlihood.</span>
   <span id="f000475">They took place in clubs and houses that he couldn’t have gone into in the daytime.</span>
   <span id="f000476">After all,</span>
   <span id="f000477">he was merely playing to rôle of the eternal monkey,</span>
   <span id="f000478">a sort of sublimated chorus man.</span>
   <span id="f000479">He was sick of the very smell of the theatre,</span>
   <span id="f000480">of powder and rouge and the chatter of the greenroom,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and the patronizing approval of the boxes.</span>
   <span id="f000482">He couldn’t put his heart into it any more.</span>
   <span id="f000483">The idea of a slow approach to the luxury of leisure drove him wild.</span>
   <span id="f000484">He was,</span>
   <span id="f000485">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000486">progressing toward it,</span>
   <span id="f000487">but,</span>
   <span id="f000488">like a child,</span>
   <span id="f000489">eating his ice-cream so slowly that he couldn’t taste it at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">He wanted to have a lot of money and time and opportunity to read and play,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and the sort of men and women round him that he could never have – the kind who,</span>
   <span id="f000492">if they thought of him at all,</span>
   <span id="f000493">would have considered him rather contemptible;</span>
   <span id="f000494">in short he wanted all those things which he was beginning to lump under the general head of aristocracy,</span>
   <span id="f000495">an aristocracy which it seemed almost any money could buy except money made as he was making it.</span>
   <span id="f000496">He was twenty-five then,</span>
   <span id="f000497">without family or education or any promise that he would succeed in a business career.</span>
   <span id="f000498">He began speculating wildly,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and within three weeks he had lost every cent he had saved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000500">Then the war came.</span>
   <span id="f000501">He went to Plattsburg,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and even there his profession followed him.</span>
   <span id="f000503">A brigadier-general called him up to headquarters and told him he could serve his country better as a band leader – so he spent the war entertaining celebrities behind the line with a headquarters band.</span>
   <span id="f000504">It was not so bad – except that when the infantry came limping back from the trenches he wanted to be one of them.</span>
   <span id="f000505">The sweat and mud they wore seemed only one of those ineffable symbols of aristocracy that were forever eluding him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">“It was the private dances that did it.</span>
   <span id="f000507">After I came back from the war the old routine started.</span>
   <span id="f000508">We had an offer from a syndicate of Florida hotels.</span>
   <span id="f000509">It was only a question of time then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000510">He broke off and Ardita looked at him expectantly,</span>
   <span id="f000511">but he shook his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">“No,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000513">“I’m going to tell you about it.</span>
   <span id="f000514">I’m enjoying it too much,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and I’m afraid I’d lose a little of that enjoyment if I shared it with anyone else.</span>
   <span id="f000516">I want to hang on to those few breathless,</span>
   <span id="f000517">heroic moments when I stood out before them all and let them know I was more than a damn bobbing,</span>
   <span id="f000518">squawking clown.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">From up forward came suddenly the low sound of singing.</span>
   <span id="f000520">The negroes had gathered together on the deck and their voices rose together in a haunting melody that soared in poignant harmonics toward the moon.</span>
   <span id="f000521">And Ardita listens in enchantment.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000522">“Oh down – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000523">oh down,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000524">Mammy wanna take me down milky way,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000525">Oh down,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000526">oh down,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000527">Pappy say to-morra-a-a-ah<br /></span>
   <span id="f000528">But mammy say to-day,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000529">Yes – mammy say to-day!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000530">Carlyle sighed and was silent for a moment looking up at the gathered host of stars blinking like arc-lights in the warm sky.</span>
   <span id="f000531">The negroes’ song had died away to a plaintive humming and it seemed as if minute by minute the brightness and the great silence were increasing until he could almost hear the midnight toilet of the mermaids as they combed their silver dripping curls under the moon and gossiped to each other of the fine wrecks they lived on the green opalescent avenues below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“You see,” said Carlyle softly,</span>
   <span id="f000533">“this is the beauty I want.</span>
   <span id="f000534">Beauty has got to be astonishing,</span>
   <span id="f000535">astounding – it’s got to burst in on you like a dream,</span>
   <span id="f000536">like the exquisite eyes of a girl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">He turned to her,</span>
   <span id="f000538">but she was silent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000540">don’t you,</span>
   <span id="f000541">Anita – I mean,</span>
   <span id="f000542">Ardita?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">Again she made no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000544">She had been sound asleep for some time.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000545">IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000546">In the dense sun-flooded noon of next day a spot in the sea before them resolved casually into a green-and-gray islet,</span>
   <span id="f000547">apparently composed of a great granite cliff at its northern end which slanted south through a mile of vivid coppice and grass to a sandy beach melting lazily into the surf.</span>
   <span id="f000548">When Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000549">reading in her favorite seat,</span>
   <span id="f000550">came to the last page of The Revolt of the Angels,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and slamming the book shut looked up and saw it,</span>
   <span id="f000552">she gave a little cry of delight,</span>
   <span id="f000553">and called to Carlyle,</span>
   <span id="f000554">who was standing moodily by the rail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“Is this it?</span>
   <span id="f000556">Is this where you’re going?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">Carlyle shrugged his shoulders carelessly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000558">“You’ve got me.” He raised his voice and called up to the acting skipper:</span>
   <span id="f000559">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000560">Babe,</span>
   <span id="f000561">is this your island?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">The mulatto’s miniature head appeared from round the corner of the deck-house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">“Yas-suh!</span>
   <span id="f000564">This yeah’s it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">Carlyle joined Ardita.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">“Looks sort of sporting,</span>
   <span id="f000567">doesn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">“Yes,” she agreed;</span>
   <span id="f000569">“but it doesn’t look big enough to be much of a hiding-place.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">“You still putting your faith in those wirelesses your uncle was going to have zigzagging round?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000571">“No,” said Ardita frankly.</span>
   <span id="f000572">“I’m all for you.</span>
   <span id="f000573">I’d really like to see you make a get-away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">He laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">“You’re our Lady Luck.</span>
   <span id="f000576">Guess we’ll have to keep you with us as a mascot – for the present anyway.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">“You couldn’t very well ask me to swim back,” she said coolly.</span>
   <span id="f000578">“If you do I’m going to start writing dime novels founded on that interminable history of your life you gave me last night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">He flushed and stiffened slightly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“I’m very sorry I bored you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000582">you didn’t – until just at the end with some story about how furious you were because you couldn’t dance with the ladies you played music for.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">He rose angrily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000584">“You have got a darn mean little tongue.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">“Excuse me,” she said melting into laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000586">“but I’m not used to having men regale me with the story of their life ambitions – especially if they’ve lived such deathly platonic lives.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">“Why?</span>
   <span id="f000588">What do men usually regale you with?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000590">they talk about me,” she yawned.</span>
   <span id="f000591">“They tell me I’m the spirit of youth and beauty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“What do you tell them?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000594">I agree quietly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">“Does every man you meet tell you he loves you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">Ardita nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">“Why shouldn’t he?</span>
   <span id="f000598">All life is just a progression toward,</span>
   <span id="f000599">and then a recession from,</span>
   <span id="f000600">one phrase – ’I love you.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000601">Carlyle laughed and sat down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000602">“That’s very true.</span>
   <span id="f000603">That’s – that’s not bad.</span>
   <span id="f000604">Did you make that up?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">“Yes – or rather I found it out.</span>
   <span id="f000606">It doesn’t mean anything especially.</span>
   <span id="f000607">It’s just clever.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000608">“It’s the sort of remark,” he said gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000609">“that’s typical of your class.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">“Oh,” she interrupted impatiently,</span>
   <span id="f000611">“don’t start that lecture on aristocracy again!</span>
   <span id="f000612">I distrust people who can be intense at this hour in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000613">It’s a mild form of insanity – a sort of breakfast-food jag.</span>
   <span id="f000614">Morning’s the time to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000615">swim,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and be careless.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">Ten minutes later they had swung round in a wide circle as if to approach the island from the north.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“There’s a trick somewhere,” commented Ardita thoughtfully.</span>
   <span id="f000619">“He can’t mean just to anchor up against this cliff.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000620">They were heading straight in now toward the solid rock,</span>
   <span id="f000621">which must have been well over a hundred feet tall,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and not until they were within fifty yards of it did Ardita see their objective.</span>
   <span id="f000623">Then she clapped her hands in delight.</span>
   <span id="f000624">There was a break in the cliff entirely hidden by a curious overlapping of rock,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and through this break the yacht entered and very slowly traversed a narrow channel of crystal-clear water between high gray walls.</span>
   <span id="f000626">Then they were riding at anchor in a miniature world of green and gold,</span>
   <span id="f000627">a gilded bay smooth as glass and set round with tiny palms,</span>
   <span id="f000628">the whole resembling the mirror lakes and twig trees that children set up in sand piles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">“Not so darned bad!” cried Carlyle excitedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000630">“I guess that little coon knows his way round this corner of the Atlantic.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">His exuberance was contagious,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and Ardita became quite jubilant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000633">“It’s an absolutely sure-fire hiding-place!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">“Lordy,</span>
   <span id="f000635">yes!</span>
   <span id="f000636">It’s the sort of island you read about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000637">The rowboat was lowered into the golden lake and they pulled to shore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">“Come on,” said Carlyle as they landed in the slushy sand,</span>
   <span id="f000639">“we’ll go exploring.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">The fringe of palms was in turn ringed in by a round mile of flat,</span>
   <span id="f000641">sandy country.</span>
   <span id="f000642">They followed it south and brushing through a farther rim of tropical vegetation came out on a pearl-gray virgin beach where Ardita kicked of her brown golf shoes – she seemed to have permanently abandoned stockings – and went wading.</span>
   <span id="f000643">Then they sauntered back to the yacht,</span>
   <span id="f000644">where the indefatigable Babe had luncheon ready for them.</span>
   <span id="f000645">He had posted a lookout on the high cliff to the north to watch the sea on both sides,</span>
   <span id="f000646">though he doubted if the entrance to the cliff was generally known – he had never even seen a map on which the island was marked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">“What’s its name,” asked Ardita – “the island,</span>
   <span id="f000648">I mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000649">“No name ’tall,” chuckled Babe.</span>
   <span id="f000650">“Reckin she jus’ island,</span>
   <span id="f000651">’at’s all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">In the late afternoon they sat with their backs against great boulders on the highest part of the cliff and Carlyle sketched for her his vague plans.</span>
   <span id="f000653">He was sure they were hot after him by this time.</span>
   <span id="f000654">The total proceeds of the coup he had pulled off and concerning which he still refused to enlighten her,</span>
   <span id="f000655">he estimated as just under a million dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000656">He counted on lying up here several weeks and then setting off southward,</span>
   <span id="f000657">keeping well outside the usual channels of travel rounding the Horn and heading for Callao,</span>
   <span id="f000658">in Peru.</span>
   <span id="f000659">The details of coaling and provisioning he was leaving entirely to Babe who,</span>
   <span id="f000660">it seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000661">had sailed these seas in every capacity from cabin-boy aboard a coffee trader to virtual first mate on a Brazillian pirate craft,</span>
   <span id="f000662">whose skipper had long since been hung.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">“If he’d been white he’d have been king of South America long ago,” said Carlyle emphatically.</span>
   <span id="f000664">“When it comes to intelligence he makes Booker T.</span>
   <span id="f000665">Washington look like a moron.</span>
   <span id="f000666">He’s got the guile of every race and nationality whose blood is in his veins,</span>
   <span id="f000667">and that’s half a dozen or I’m a liar.</span>
   <span id="f000668">He worships me because I’m the only man in the world who can play better ragtime than he can.</span>
   <span id="f000669">We used to sit together on the wharfs down on the New York water-front,</span>
   <span id="f000670">he with a bassoon and me with an oboe,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and we’d blend minor keys in African harmonics a thousand years old until the rats would crawl up the posts and sit round groaning and squeaking like dogs will in front of a phonograph.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">Ardita roared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“How you can tell ’em!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">Carlyle grinned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">“I swear that’s the gos – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">“What you going to do when you get to Callao?” she interrupted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">“Take ship for India.</span>
   <span id="f000678">I want to be a rajah.</span>
   <span id="f000679">I mean it.</span>
   <span id="f000680">My idea is to go up into Afghanistan somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000681">buy up a palace and a reputation,</span>
   <span id="f000682">and then after about five years appear in England with a foreign accent and a mysterious past.</span>
   <span id="f000683">But India first.</span>
   <span id="f000684">Do you know,</span>
   <span id="f000685">they say that all the gold in the world drifts very gradually back to India.</span>
   <span id="f000686">Something fascinating about that to me.</span>
   <span id="f000687">And I want leisure to read – an immense amount.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">“How about after that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000689">“Then,” he answered defiantly,</span>
   <span id="f000690">“comes aristocracy.</span>
   <span id="f000691">Laugh if you want to – but at least you’ll have to admit that I know what I want – which I imagine is more than you do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">“On the contrary,” contradicted Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f000693">reaching in her pocket for her cigarette case,</span>
   <span id="f000694">“when I met you I was in the midst of a great uproar of all my friends and relatives because I did know what I wanted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000695">“What was it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">“A man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000697">He started.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">“You mean you were engaged?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000699">“After a fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000700">If you hadn’t come aboard I had every intention of slipping ashore yesterday evening – how long ago it seems – and meeting him in Palm Beach.</span>
   <span id="f000701">He’s waiting there for me with a bracelet that once belonged to Catherine of Russia.</span>
   <span id="f000702">Now don’t mutter anything about aristocracy,” she put in quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000703">“I liked him simply because he had had an imagination and the utter courage of his convictions.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000704">“But your family disapproved,</span>
   <span id="f000705">eh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000706">“What there is of it – only a silly uncle and a sillier aunt.</span>
   <span id="f000707">It seems he got into some scandal with a red-haired woman name Mimi something – it was frightfully exaggerated,</span>
   <span id="f000708">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and men don’t lie to me – and anyway I didn’t care what he’d done;</span>
   <span id="f000710">it was the future that counted.</span>
   <span id="f000711">And I’d see to that.</span>
   <span id="f000712">When a man’s in love with me he doesn’t care for other amusements.</span>
   <span id="f000713">I told him to drop her like a hot cake,</span>
   <span id="f000714">and he did.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“I feel rather jealous,” said Carlyle,</span>
   <span id="f000716">frowning – and then he laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000717">“I guess I’ll just keep you along with us until we get to Callao.</span>
   <span id="f000718">Then I’ll lend you enough money to get back to the States.</span>
   <span id="f000719">By that time you’ll have had a chance to think that gentleman over a little more.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000720">“Don’t talk to me like that!” fired up Ardita.</span>
   <span id="f000721">“I won’t tolerate the parental attitude from anybody!</span>
   <span id="f000722">Do you understand me?” He chuckled and then stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000723">rather abashed,</span>
   <span id="f000724">as her cold anger seemed to fold him about and chill him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“I’m sorry,” he offered uncertainly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000726">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000727">don’t apologize!</span>
   <span id="f000728">I can’t stand men who say ’I’m sorry’ in that manly,</span>
   <span id="f000729">reserved tone.</span>
   <span id="f000730">Just shut up!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">A pause ensued,</span>
   <span id="f000732">a pause which Carlyle found rather awkward,</span>
   <span id="f000733">but which Ardita seemed not to notice at all as she sat contentedly enjoying her cigarette and gazing out at the shining sea.</span>
   <span id="f000734">After a minute she crawled out on the rock and lay with her face over the edge looking down.</span>
   <span id="f000735">Carlyle,</span>
   <span id="f000736">watching her,</span>
   <span id="f000737">reflected how it seemed impossible for her to assume an ungraceful attitude.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000738">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000739">look,” she cried.</span>
   <span id="f000740">“There’s a lot of sort of ledges down there.</span>
   <span id="f000741">Wide ones of all different heights.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000742">“We’ll go swimming to-night!” she said excitedly.</span>
   <span id="f000743">“By moonlight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000744">“Wouldn’t you rather go in at the beach on the other end?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">“Not a chance.</span>
   <span id="f000746">I like to dive.</span>
   <span id="f000747">You can use my uncle’s bathing suit,</span>
   <span id="f000748">only it’ll fit you like a gunny sack,</span>
   <span id="f000749">because he’s a very flabby man.</span>
   <span id="f000750">I’ve got a one-piece that’s shocked the natives all along the Atlantic coast from Biddeford Pool to St.&#160;Augustine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000751">“I suppose you’re a shark.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000753">I’m pretty good.</span>
   <span id="f000754">And I look cute too.</span>
   <span id="f000755">A sculptor up at Rye last summer told me my calves are worth five hundred dollars.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000756">There didn’t seem to be any answer to this,</span>
   <span id="f000757">so Carlyle was silent,</span>
   <span id="f000758">permitting himself only a discreet interior smile.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000759">V</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000760">When the night crept down in shadowy blue and silver they threaded the shimmering channel in the rowboat and,</span>
   <span id="f000761">tying it to a jutting rock,</span>
   <span id="f000762">began climbing the cliff together.</span>
   <span id="f000763">The first shelf was ten feet up,</span>
   <span id="f000764">wide,</span>
   <span id="f000765">and furnishing a natural diving platform.</span>
   <span id="f000766">There they sat down in the bright moonlight and watched the faint incessant surge of the waters almost stilled now as the tide set seaward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">“Are you happy?” he asked suddenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">She nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000769">“Always happy near the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000770">You know,” she went on,</span>
   <span id="f000771">“I’ve been thinking all day that you and I are somewhat alike.</span>
   <span id="f000772">We’re both rebels – only for different reasons.</span>
   <span id="f000773">Two years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000774">when I was just eighteen and you were – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">“Twenty-five.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000776">“ – well,</span>
   <span id="f000777">we were both conventional successes.</span>
   <span id="f000778">I was an utterly devastating débutante and you were a prosperous musician just commissioned in the army – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">“Gentleman by act of Congress,” he put in ironically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000780">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000781">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000782">we both fitted.</span>
   <span id="f000783">If our corners were not rubbed off they were at least pulled in.</span>
   <span id="f000784">But deep in us both was something that made us require more for happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000785">I didn’t know what I wanted.</span>
   <span id="f000786">I went from man to man,</span>
   <span id="f000787">restless,</span>
   <span id="f000788">impatient,</span>
   <span id="f000789">month by month getting less acquiescent and more dissatisfied.</span>
   <span id="f000790">I used to sit sometimes chewing at the insides of my mouth and thinking I was going crazy – I had a frightful sense of transiency.</span>
   <span id="f000791">I wanted things now – now – now!</span>
   <span id="f000792">Here I was – beautiful – I am,</span>
   <span id="f000793">aren’t I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">“Yes,” agreed Carlyle tentatively.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000795">Ardita rose suddenly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“Wait a second.</span>
   <span id="f000797">I want to try this delightful-looking sea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000798">She walked to the end of the ledge and shot out over the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000799">doubling up in mid-air and then straightening out and entering to water straight as a blade in a perfect jack-knife dive.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000800">In a minute her voice floated up to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000801">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000802">I used to read all day and most of the night.</span>
   <span id="f000803">I began to resent society – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">“Come on up here,” he interrupted.</span>
   <span id="f000805">“What on earth are you doing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000806">“Just floating round on my back.</span>
   <span id="f000807">I’ll be up in a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000808">Let me tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000809">The only thing I enjoyed was shocking people;</span>
   <span id="f000810">wearing something quite impossible and quite charming to a fancy-dress party,</span>
   <span id="f000811">going round with the fastest men in New York,</span>
   <span id="f000812">and getting into some of the most hellish scrapes imaginable.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">The sounds of splashing mingled with her words,</span>
   <span id="f000814">and then he heard her hurried breathing as she began climbing up side to the ledge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000815">“Go on in!” she called</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000816">Obediently he rose and dived.</span>
   <span id="f000817">When he emerged,</span>
   <span id="f000818">dripping,</span>
   <span id="f000819">and made the climb he found that she was no longer on the ledge,</span>
   <span id="f000820">but after a second frightened he heard her light laughter from another shelf ten feet up.</span>
   <span id="f000821">There he joined her and they both sat quietly for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000822">their arms clasped round their knees,</span>
   <span id="f000823">panting a little from the climb.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000824">“The family were wild,” she said suddenly.</span>
   <span id="f000825">“They tried to marry me off.</span>
   <span id="f000826">And then when I’d begun to feel that after all life was scarcely worth living I found something” – her eyes went skyward exultantly – “I found something!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000827">Carlyle waited and her words came with a rush.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000828">“Courage – just that;</span>
   <span id="f000829">courage as a rule of life,</span>
   <span id="f000830">and something to cling to always.</span>
   <span id="f000831">I began to build up this enormous faith in myself.</span>
   <span id="f000832">I began to see that in all my idols in the past some manifestation of courage had unconsciously been the thing that attracted me.</span>
   <span id="f000833">I began separating courage from the other things of life.</span>
   <span id="f000834">All sorts of courage – the beaten,</span>
   <span id="f000835">bloody prize-fighter coming up for more – I used to make men take me to prize-fights;</span>
   <span id="f000836">the déclassé woman sailing through a nest of cats and looking at them as if they were mud under her feet;</span>
   <span id="f000837">the liking what you like always;</span>
   <span id="f000838">the utter disregard for other people’s opinions – just to live as I liked always and to die in my own way – Did you bring up the cigarettes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">He handed one over and held a match for her gently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000840">“Still,” Ardita continued,</span>
   <span id="f000841">“the men kept gathering – old men and young men,</span>
   <span id="f000842">my mental and physical inferiors,</span>
   <span id="f000843">most of them,</span>
   <span id="f000844">but all intensely desiring to have me – to own this rather magnificent proud tradition I’d built up round me.</span>
   <span id="f000845">Do you see?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">“Sort of.</span>
   <span id="f000847">You never were beaten and you never apologized.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000848">“Never!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000849">She sprang to the edge,</span>
   <span id="f000850">poised for a moment like a crucified figure against the sky;</span>
   <span id="f000851">then describing a dark parabola plunked without a slash between two silver ripples twenty feet below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">Her voice floated up to him again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000853">“And courage to me meant ploughing through that dull gray mist that comes down on life – not only overriding people and circumstances but overriding the bleakness of living.</span>
   <span id="f000854">A sort of insistence on the value of life and the worth of transient things.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">She was climbing up now,</span>
   <span id="f000856">and at her last words her head,</span>
   <span id="f000857">with the damp yellow hair slicked symmetrically back appeared on his level.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000858">“All very well,” objected Carlyle.</span>
   <span id="f000859">“You can call it courage,</span>
   <span id="f000860">but your courage is really built,</span>
   <span id="f000861">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000862">on a pride of birth.</span>
   <span id="f000863">You were bred to that defiant attitude.</span>
   <span id="f000864">On my gray days even courage is one of the things that’s gray and lifeless.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000865">She was sitting near the edge,</span>
   <span id="f000866">hugging her knees and gazing abstractedly at the white moon;</span>
   <span id="f000867">he was farther back,</span>
   <span id="f000868">crammed like a grotesque god into a niche in the rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000869">“I don’t want to sound like Pollyanna,” she began,</span>
   <span id="f000870">“but you haven’t grasped me yet.</span>
   <span id="f000871">My courage is faith – faith in the eternal resilience of me – that joy’ll come back,</span>
   <span id="f000872">and hope and spontaneity.</span>
   <span id="f000873">And I feel that till it does I’ve got to keep my lips shut and my chin high,</span>
   <span id="f000874">and my eyes wide – not necessarily any silly smiling.</span>
   <span id="f000875">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000876">I’ve been through hell without a whine quite often – and the female hell is deadlier than the male.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">“But supposing,” suggested Carlyle,</span>
   <span id="f000878">“that before joy and hope and all that came back the curtain was drawn on you for good?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000879">Ardita rose,</span>
   <span id="f000880">and going to the wall climbed with some difficulty to the next ledge,</span>
   <span id="f000881">another ten or fifteen feet above.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">“Why,” she called back “then I’d have won!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000883">He edged out till he could see her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000884">“Better not dive from there!</span>
   <span id="f000885">You’ll break your back,” he said quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">She laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000887">“Not I!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">Slowly she spread her arms and stood there swan-like,</span>
   <span id="f000889">radiating a pride in her young perfection that lit a warm glow in Carlyle’s heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">“We’re going through the black air with our arms wide and our feet straight out behind like a dolphin’s tail,</span>
   <span id="f000891">and we’re going to think we’ll never hit the silver down there till suddenly it’ll be all warm round us and full of little kissing,</span>
   <span id="f000892">caressing waves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000893">Then she was in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000894">and Carlyle involuntarily held his breath.</span>
   <span id="f000895">He had not realized that the dive was nearly forty feet.</span>
   <span id="f000896">It seemed an eternity before he heard the swift compact sound as she reached the sea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000897">And it was with his glad sigh of relief when her light watery laughter curled up the side of the cliff and into his anxious ears that he knew he loved her.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000898">VI</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000899">Time,</span>
   <span id="f000900">having no axe to grind,</span>
   <span id="f000901">showered down upon them three days of afternoons.</span>
   <span id="f000902">When the sun cleared the port-hole of Ardita’s cabin an hour after dawn she rose cheerily,</span>
   <span id="f000903">donned her bathing-suit,</span>
   <span id="f000904">and went up on deck.</span>
   <span id="f000905">The negroes would leave their work when they saw her,</span>
   <span id="f000906">and crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000907">chuckling and chattering,</span>
   <span id="f000908">to the rail as she floated,</span>
   <span id="f000909">an agile minnow,</span>
   <span id="f000910">on and under the surface of the clear water.</span>
   <span id="f000911">Again in the cool of the afternoon she would swim – and loll and smoke with Carlyle upon the cliff;</span>
   <span id="f000912">or else they would lie on their sides in the sands of the southern beach,</span>
   <span id="f000913">talking little,</span>
   <span id="f000914">but watching the day fade colorfully and tragically into the infinite langour of a tropical evening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000915">And with the long,</span>
   <span id="f000916">sunny hours Ardita’s idea of the episode as incidental,</span>
   <span id="f000917">madcap,</span>
   <span id="f000918">a sprig of romance in a desert of reality,</span>
   <span id="f000919">gradually left her.</span>
   <span id="f000920">She dreaded the time when he would strike off southward;</span>
   <span id="f000921">she dreaded all the eventualities that presented themselves to her;</span>
   <span id="f000922">thoughts were suddenly troublesome and decisions odious.</span>
   <span id="f000923">Had prayers found place in the pagan rituals of her soul she would have asked of life only to be unmolested for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000924">lazily acquiescent to the ready,</span>
   <span id="f000925">naïf flow of Carlyle’s ideas,</span>
   <span id="f000926">his vivid boyish imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000927">and the vein of monomania that seemed to run crosswise through his temperament and colored his every action.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000928">But this is not a story of two on an island,</span>
   <span id="f000929">nor concerned primarily with love bred of isolation.</span>
   <span id="f000930">It is merely the presentation of two personalities,</span>
   <span id="f000931">and its idyllic setting among the palms of the Gulf Stream is quite incidental.</span>
   <span id="f000932">Most of us are content to exist and breed and fight for the right to do both,</span>
   <span id="f000933">and the dominant idea,</span>
   <span id="f000934">the foredoomed attest to control one’s destiny,</span>
   <span id="f000935">is reserved for the fortunate or unfortunate few.</span>
   <span id="f000936">To me the interesting thing about Ardita is the courage that will tarnish with her beauty and youth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">“Take me with you,” she said late one night as they sat lazily in the grass under the shadowy spreading palms.</span>
   <span id="f000938">The negroes had brought ashore their musical instruments,</span>
   <span id="f000939">and the sound of weird ragtime was drifting softly over on the warm breath of the night.</span>
   <span id="f000940">“I’d love to reappear in ten years,</span>
   <span id="f000941">as a fabulously wealthy high-caste Indian lady,” she continued.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">Carlyle looked at her quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000943">“You can,</span>
   <span id="f000944">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000945">She laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000946">“Is it a proposal of marriage?</span>
   <span id="f000947">Extra!</span>
   <span id="f000948">Ardita Farnam becomes pirate’s bride.</span>
   <span id="f000949">Society girl kidnapped by ragtime bank robber.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">“It wasn’t a bank.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000951">“What was it?</span>
   <span id="f000952">Why won’t you tell me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">“I don’t want to break down your illusions.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000954">“My dear man,</span>
   <span id="f000955">I have no illusions about you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000956">“I mean your illusions about yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000957">She looked up in surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000958">“About myself!</span>
   <span id="f000959">What on earth have I got to do with whatever stray felonies you’ve committed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000960">“That remains to be seen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000961">She reached over and patted his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000962">“Dear Mr.&#160;Curtis Carlyle,” she said softly,</span>
   <span id="f000963">“are you in love with me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000964">“As if it mattered.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000965">“But it does – because I think I’m in love with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000966">He looked at her ironically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000967">“Thus swelling your January total to half a dozen,” he suggested.</span>
   <span id="f000968">“Suppose I call your bluff and ask you to come to India with me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000969">“Shall I?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000970">He shrugged his shoulders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000971">“We can get married in Callao.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000972">“What sort of life can you offer me?</span>
   <span id="f000973">I don’t mean that unkindly,</span>
   <span id="f000974">but seriously;</span>
   <span id="f000975">what would become of me if the people who want that twenty-thousand-dollar reward ever catch up with you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000976">“I thought you weren’t afraid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000977">“I never am – but I won’t throw my life away just to show one man I’m not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000978">“I wish you’d been poor.</span>
   <span id="f000979">Just a little poor girl dreaming over a fence in a warm cow country.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000980">“Wouldn’t it have been nice?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“I’d have enjoyed astonishing you – watching your eyes open on things.</span>
   <span id="f000982">If you only wanted things!</span>
   <span id="f000983">Don’t you see?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000984">“I know – like girls who stare into the windows of jewelry-stores.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000985">“Yes – and want the big oblong watch that’s platinum and has diamonds all round the edge.</span>
   <span id="f000986">Only you’d decide it was too expensive and choose one of white gold for a hundred dollar.</span>
   <span id="f000987">Then I’d say:</span>
   <span id="f000988">’Expensive?</span>
   <span id="f000989">I should say not!’ And we’d go into the store and pretty soon the platinum one would be gleaming on your wrist.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000990">“That sounds so nice and vulgar – and fun,</span>
   <span id="f000991">doesn’t it?” murmured Ardita.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000992">“Doesn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000993">Can’t you see us travelling round and spending money right and left,</span>
   <span id="f000994">and being worshipped by bell-boys and waiters?</span>
   <span id="f000995">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000996">blessed are the simple rich for they inherit the earth!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000997">“I honestly wish we were that way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000998">“I love you,</span>
   <span id="f000999">Ardita,” he said gently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001000">Her face lost its childish look for moment and became oddly grave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001001">“I love to be with you,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f001002">“more than with any man I’ve ever met.</span>
   <span id="f001003">And I like your looks and your dark old hair,</span>
   <span id="f001004">and the way you go over the side of the rail when we come ashore.</span>
   <span id="f001005">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f001006">Curtis Carlyle,</span>
   <span id="f001007">I like all the things you do when you’re perfectly natural.</span>
   <span id="f001008">I think you’ve got nerve and you know how I feel about that.</span>
   <span id="f001009">Sometimes when you’re around I’ve been tempted to kiss you suddenly and tell you that you were just an idealistic boy with a lot of caste nonsense in his head.</span>
   <span id="f001010">Perhaps if I were just a little bit older and a little more bored I’d go with you.</span>
   <span id="f001011">As it is,</span>
   <span id="f001012">I think I’ll go back and marry – that other man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">Over across the silver lake the figures of the negroes writhed and squirmed in the moonlight like acrobats who,</span>
   <span id="f001014">having been too long inactive,</span>
   <span id="f001015">must go through their tacks from sheer surplus energy.</span>
   <span id="f001016">In single file they marched,</span>
   <span id="f001017">weaving in concentric circles,</span>
   <span id="f001018">now with their heads thrown back,</span>
   <span id="f001019">now bent over their instruments like piping fauns.</span>
   <span id="f001020">And from trombone and saxaphone ceaselessly whined a blended melody,</span>
   <span id="f001021">sometimes riotous and jubilant,</span>
   <span id="f001022">sometimes haunting and plaintive as a death-dance from the Congo’s heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001023">“Let’s dance,” cried Ardita.</span>
   <span id="f001024">“I can’t sit still with that perfect jazz going on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001025">Taking her hand he led her out into a broad stretch of hard sandy soil that the moon flooded with great splendor.</span>
   <span id="f001026">They floated out like drifting moths under the rich hazy light,</span>
   <span id="f001027">and as the fantastic symphony wept and exulted and wavered and despaired Ardita’s last sense of reality dropped away,</span>
   <span id="f001028">and she abandoned her imagination to the dreamy summer scents of tropical flowers and the infinite starry spaces overhead,</span>
   <span id="f001029">feeling that if she opened her eyes it would be to find herself dancing with a ghost in a land created by her own fancy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001030">“This is what I should call an exclusive private dance,” he whispered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001031">“I feel quite mad – but delightfully mad!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001032">“We’re enchanted.</span>
   <span id="f001033">The shades of unnumbered generations of cannibals are watching us from high up on the side of the cliff there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001034">“And I’ll bet the cannibal women are saying that we dance too close,</span>
   <span id="f001035">and that it was immodest of me to come without my nose-ring.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001036">They both laughed softly – and then their laughter died as over across the lake they heard the trombones stop in the middle of a bar,</span>
   <span id="f001037">and the saxaphones give a startled moan and fade out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001038">“What’s the matter?” called Carlyle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001039">After a moment’s silence they made out the dark figure of a man rounding the silver lake at a run.</span>
   <span id="f001040">As he came closer they saw it was Babe in a state of unusual excitement.</span>
   <span id="f001041">He drew up before them and gasped out his news in a breath.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001042">“Ship stan’in’ off sho’ ’bout half a mile suh.</span>
   <span id="f001043">Mose,</span>
   <span id="f001044">he uz on watch,</span>
   <span id="f001045">he say look’s if she’s done ancho’d.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001046">“A ship – what kind of a ship?” demanded Carlyle anxiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001047">Dismay was in his voice,</span>
   <span id="f001048">and Ardita’s heart gave a sudden wrench as she saw his whole face suddenly droop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001049">“He say he don’t know,</span>
   <span id="f001050">suh.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001051">“Are they landing a boat?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001052">“No,</span>
   <span id="f001053">suh.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001054">“We’ll go up,” said Carlyle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001055">They ascended the hill in silence,</span>
   <span id="f001056">Ardita’s hand still resting in Carlyle’s as it had when they finished dancing.</span>
   <span id="f001057">She felt it clinch nervously from time to time as though he were unaware of the contact,</span>
   <span id="f001058">but though he hurt her she made no attempt to remove it.</span>
   <span id="f001059">It seemed an hour’s climb before they reached the top and crept cautiously across the silhouetted plateau to the edge of the cliff.</span>
   <span id="f001060">After one short look Carlyle involuntarily gave a little cry.</span>
   <span id="f001061">It was a revenue boat with six-inch guns mounted fore and aft.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001062">“They know!” he said with a short intake of breath.</span>
   <span id="f001063">“They know!</span>
   <span id="f001064">They picked up the trail somewhere.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001065">“Are you sure they know about the channel?</span>
   <span id="f001066">They may be only standing by to take a look at the island in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f001067">From where they are they couldn’t see the opening in the cliff.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001068">“They could with field-glasses,” he said hopelessly.</span>
   <span id="f001069">He looked at his wrist-watch.</span>
   <span id="f001070">“It’s nearly two now.</span>
   <span id="f001071">They won’t do anything until dawn,</span>
   <span id="f001072">that’s certain.</span>
   <span id="f001073">Of course there’s always the faint possibility that they’re waiting for some other ship to join;</span>
   <span id="f001074">or for a coaler.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001075">“I suppose we may as well stay right here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001076">The hour passed and they lay there side by side,</span>
   <span id="f001077">very silently,</span>
   <span id="f001078">their chins in their hands like dreaming children.</span>
   <span id="f001079">In back of them squatted the negroes,</span>
   <span id="f001080">patient,</span>
   <span id="f001081">resigned,</span>
   <span id="f001082">acquiescent,</span>
   <span id="f001083">announcing now and then with sonorous snores that not even the presence of danger could subdue their unconquerable African craving for sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001084">Just before five o’clock Babe approached Carlyle.</span>
   <span id="f001085">There were half a dozen rifles aboard the Narcissus he said.</span>
   <span id="f001086">Had it been decided to offer no resistance?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001087">A pretty good fight might be made,</span>
   <span id="f001088">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f001089">if they worked out some plan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001090">Carlyle laughed and shook his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001091">“That isn’t a Spic army out there,</span>
   <span id="f001092">Babe.</span>
   <span id="f001093">That’s a revenue boat.</span>
   <span id="f001094">It’d be like a bow and arrow trying to fight a machine-gun.</span>
   <span id="f001095">If you want to bury those bags somewhere and take a chance on recovering them later,</span>
   <span id="f001096">go on and do it.</span>
   <span id="f001097">But it won’t work – they’d dig this island over from one end to the other.</span>
   <span id="f001098">It’s a lost battle all round,</span>
   <span id="f001099">Babe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001100">Babe inclined his head silently and turned away,</span>
   <span id="f001101">and Carlyle’s voice was husky as he turned to Ardita.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001102">“There’s the best friend I ever had.</span>
   <span id="f001103">He’d die for me,</span>
   <span id="f001104">and be proud to,</span>
   <span id="f001105">if I’d let him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001106">“You’ve given up?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001107">“I’ve no choice.</span>
   <span id="f001108">Of course there’s always one way out – the sure way – but that can wait.</span>
   <span id="f001109">I wouldn’t miss my trial for anything – it’ll be an interesting experiment in notoriety.</span>
   <span id="f001110">’Miss Farnam testifies that the pirate’s attitude to her was at all times that of a gentleman.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001111">“Don’t!” she said.</span>
   <span id="f001112">“I’m awfully sorry.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001113">When the color faded from the sky and lustreless blue changed to leaden gray a commotion was visible on the ship’s deck,</span>
   <span id="f001114">and they made out a group of officers clad in white duck,</span>
   <span id="f001115">gathered near the rail.</span>
   <span id="f001116">They had field-glasses in their hands and were attentively examining the islet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001117">“It’s all up,” said Carlyle grimly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001118">“Damn,” whispered Ardita.</span>
   <span id="f001119">She felt tears gathering in her eyes “We’ll go back to the yacht,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f001120">“I prefer that to being hunted out up here like a ’possum.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001121">Leaving the plateau they descended the hill,</span>
   <span id="f001122">and reaching the lake were rowed out to the yacht by the silent negroes.</span>
   <span id="f001123">Then,</span>
   <span id="f001124">pale and weary,</span>
   <span id="f001125">they sank into the settees and waited.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001126">Half an hour later in the dim gray light the nose of the revenue boat appeared in the channel and stopped,</span>
   <span id="f001127">evidently fearing that the bay might be too shallow.</span>
   <span id="f001128">From the peaceful look of the yacht,</span>
   <span id="f001129">the man and the girl in the settees,</span>
   <span id="f001130">and the negroes lounging curiously against the rail,</span>
   <span id="f001131">they evidently judged that there would be no resistance,</span>
   <span id="f001132">for two boats were lowered casually over the side,</span>
   <span id="f001133">one containing an officer and six bluejackets,</span>
   <span id="f001134">and the other,</span>
   <span id="f001135">four rowers and in the stern two gray-haired men in yachting flannels.</span>
   <span id="f001136">Ardita and Carlyle stood up,</span>
   <span id="f001137">and half unconsciously started toward each other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001138">Then he paused and putting his hand suddenly into his pocket he pulled out a round,</span>
   <span id="f001139">glittering object and held it out to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001140">“What is it?” she asked wonderingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001141">“I’m not positive,</span>
   <span id="f001142">but I think from the Russian inscription inside that it’s your promised bracelet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001143">“Where – where on earth – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001144">“It came out of one of those bags.</span>
   <span id="f001145">You see,</span>
   <span id="f001146">Curtis Carlyle and his Six Black Buddies,</span>
   <span id="f001147">in the middle of their performance in the tea-room of the hotel at Palm Beach,</span>
   <span id="f001148">suddenly changed their instruments for automatics and held up the crowd.</span>
   <span id="f001149">I took this bracelet from a pretty,</span>
   <span id="f001150">overrouged woman with red hair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001151">Ardita frowned and then smiled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001152">“So that’s what you did!</span>
   <span id="f001153">You HAVE got nerve!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001154">He bowed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001155">“A well-known bourgeois quality,” he said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001156">And then dawn slanted dynamically across the deck and flung the shadows reeling into gray corners.</span>
   <span id="f001157">The dew rose and turned to golden mist,</span>
   <span id="f001158">thin as a dream,</span>
   <span id="f001159">enveloping them until they seemed gossamer relics of the late night,</span>
   <span id="f001160">infinitely transient and already fading.</span>
   <span id="f001161">For a moment sea and sky were breathless,</span>
   <span id="f001162">and dawn held a pink hand over the young mouth of life – then from out in the lake came the complaint of a rowboat and the swish of oars.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001163">Suddenly against the golden furnace low in the east their two graceful figures melted into one,</span>
   <span id="f001164">and he was kissing her spoiled young mouth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001165">“It’s a sort of glory,” he murmured after a second.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001166">She smiled up at him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001167">“Happy,</span>
   <span id="f001168">are you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001169">Her sigh was a benediction – an ecstatic surety that she was youth and beauty now as much as she would ever know.</span>
   <span id="f001170">For another instant life was radiant and time a phantom and their strength eternal – then there was a bumping,</span>
   <span id="f001171">scraping sound as the rowboat scraped alongside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001172">Up the ladder scrambled the two gray-haired men,</span>
   <span id="f001173">the officer and two of the sailors with their hands on their revolvers.</span>
   <span id="f001174">Mr.&#160;Farnam folded his arms and stood looking at his niece.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001175">“So,” he said nodding his head slowly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001176">With a sigh her arms unwound from Carlyle’s neck,</span>
   <span id="f001177">and her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f001178">transfigured and far away,</span>
   <span id="f001179">fell upon the boarding party.</span>
   <span id="f001180">Her uncle saw her upper lip slowly swell into that arrogant pout he knew so well.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001181">“So,” he repeated savagely.</span>
   <span id="f001182">“So this is your idea of – of romance.</span>
   <span id="f001183">A runaway affair,</span>
   <span id="f001184">with a high-seas pirate.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001185">Ardita glanced at him carelessly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001186">“What an old fool you are!” she said quietly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001187">“Is that the best you can say for yourself?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001188">“No,” she said as if considering.</span>
   <span id="f001189">“No,</span>
   <span id="f001190">there’s something else.</span>
   <span id="f001191">There’s that well-known phrase with which I have ended most of our conversations for the past few years – ’Shut up!’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001192">And with that she turned,</span>
   <span id="f001193">included the two old men,</span>
   <span id="f001194">the officer,</span>
   <span id="f001195">and the two sailors in a curt glance of contempt,</span>
   <span id="f001196">and walked proudly down the companionway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001197">But had she waited an instant longer she would have heard a sound from her uncle quite unfamiliar in most of their interviews.</span>
   <span id="f001198">He gave vent to a whole-hearted amused chuckle,</span>
   <span id="f001199">in which the second old man joined.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001200">The latter turned briskly to Carlyle,</span>
   <span id="f001201">who had been regarding this scene with an air of cryptic amusement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001202">“Well Toby,” he said genially,</span>
   <span id="f001203">“you incurable,</span>
   <span id="f001204">hare-brained romantic chaser of rainbows,</span>
   <span id="f001205">did you find that she was the person you wanted?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001206">Carlyle smiled confidently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001207">“Why – naturally,” he said “I’ve been perfectly sure ever since I first heard tell of her wild career.</span>
   <span id="f001208">That’d why I had Babe send up the rocket last night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001209">“I’m glad you did,” said Colonel Moreland gravely.</span>
   <span id="f001210">“We’ve been keeping pretty close to you in case you should have trouble with those six strange niggers.</span>
   <span id="f001211">And we hoped we’d find you two in some such compromising position,” he sighed.</span>
   <span id="f001212">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001213">set a crank to catch a crank!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001214">“Your father and I sat up all night hoping for the best – or perhaps it’s the worst.</span>
   <span id="f001215">Lord knows you’re welcome to her,</span>
   <span id="f001216">my boy.</span>
   <span id="f001217">She’s run me crazy.</span>
   <span id="f001218">Did you give her the Russian bracelet my detective got from that Mimi woman?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001219">Carlyle nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001220">“Sh!” he said.</span>
   <span id="f001221">“She’s coming on deck.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001222">Ardita appeared at the head of the companionway and gave a quick involuntary glance at Carlyle’s wrists.</span>
   <span id="f001223">A puzzled look passed across her face.</span>
   <span id="f001224">Back aft the negroes had begun to sing,</span>
   <span id="f001225">and the cool lake,</span>
   <span id="f001226">fresh with dawn,</span>
   <span id="f001227">echoed serenely to their low voices.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001228">“Ardita,” said Carlyle unsteadily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001229">She swayed a step toward him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001230">“Ardita,” he repeated breathlessly,</span>
   <span id="f001231">“I’ve got to tell you the – the truth.</span>
   <span id="f001232">It was all a plant,</span>
   <span id="f001233">Ardita.</span>
   <span id="f001234">My name isn’t Carlyle.</span>
   <span id="f001235">It’s Moreland,</span>
   <span id="f001236">Toby Moreland.</span>
   <span id="f001237">The story was invented,</span>
   <span id="f001238">Ardita,</span>
   <span id="f001239">invented out of thin Florida air.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001240">She stared at him,</span>
   <span id="f001241">bewildered,</span>
   <span id="f001242">amazement,</span>
   <span id="f001243">disbelief,</span>
   <span id="f001244">and anger flowing in quick waves across her face.</span>
   <span id="f001245">The three men held their breaths.</span>
   <span id="f001246">Moreland,</span>
   <span id="f001247">Senior,</span>
   <span id="f001248">took a step toward her;</span>
   <span id="f001249">Mr.&#160;Farnam’s mouth dropped a little open as he waited,</span>
   <span id="f001250">panic-stricken,</span>
   <span id="f001251">for the expected crash.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001252">But it did not come.</span>
   <span id="f001253">Ardita’s face became suddenly radiant,</span>
   <span id="f001254">and with a little laugh she went swiftly to young Moreland and looked up at him without a trace of wrath in her gray eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001255">“Will you swear,” she said quietly “That it was entirely a product of your own brain?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001256">“I swear,” said young Moreland eagerly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001257">She drew his head down and kissed him gently.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001258">“What an imagination!” she said softly and almost enviously.</span>
   <span id="f001259">“I want you to lie to me just as sweetly as you know how for the rest of my life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001260">The negroes’ voices floated drowsily back,</span>
   <span id="f001261">mingled in an air that she had heard them singing before.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001262">“Time is a thief;<br /></span>
   <span id="f001263">Gladness and grief<br /></span>
   <span id="f001264">Cling to the leaf<br /></span>
   <span id="f001265">As it yellows – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f001266">“What was in the bags?” she asked softly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001267">“Florida mud,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f001268">“That was one of the two true things I told you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001269">“Perhaps I can guess the other one,” she said;</span>
   <span id="f001270">and reaching up on her tiptoes she kissed him softly in the illustration.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

