<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />William Coon</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Nice People</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Henry Cuyler Bunner</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">“They certainly are nice people,” I assented to my wife’s observation,</span>
   <span id="f000008">using the colloquial phrase with a consciousness that it was anything but “nice” English,</span>
   <span id="f000009">“and I’ll bet that their three children are better brought up than most of – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">“<em>Two</em> children,” corrected my wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">“Three,</span>
   <span id="f000012">he told me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">“My dear,</span>
   <span id="f000014">she said there were <em>two</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">“He said three.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">“You’ve simply forgotten.</span>
   <span id="f000017">I’m <em>sure</em> she told me they had only two – a boy and a girl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000019">I didn’t enter into particulars.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000021">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and you couldn’t have understood him.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Two children.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">“All right,” I said;</span>
   <span id="f000025">but I did not think it was all right.</span>
   <span id="f000026">As a near-sighted man learns by enforced observation to recognize persons at a distance when the face is not visible to the normal eye,</span>
   <span id="f000027">so the man with a bad memory learns,</span>
   <span id="f000028">almost unconsciously,</span>
   <span id="f000029">to listen carefully and report accurately.</span>
   <span id="f000030">My memory is bad;</span>
   <span id="f000031">but I had not had time to forget that Mr.&#160;Brewster Brede had told me that afternoon that he had three children,</span>
   <span id="f000032">at present left in the care of his mother-in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000033">while he and Mrs.&#160;Brede took their summer vacation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“Two children,” repeated my wife;</span>
   <span id="f000035">“and they are staying with his aunt Jenny.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“He told me with his mother-in-law,” I put in.</span>
   <span id="f000037">My wife looked at me with a serious expression.</span>
   <span id="f000038">Men may not remember much of what they are told about children;</span>
   <span id="f000039">but any man knows the difference between an aunt and a mother-in-law.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“But don’t you think they’re nice people?” asked my wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000042">certainly,” I replied.</span>
   <span id="f000043">“Only they seem to be a little mixed up about their children.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“That isn’t a nice thing to say,” returned my wife.</span>
   <span id="f000045">I could not deny it.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000046">And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000047">the next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000048">when the Bredes came down and seated themselves opposite us at table,</span>
   <span id="f000049">beaming and smiling in their natural,</span>
   <span id="f000050">pleasant,</span>
   <span id="f000051">well-bred fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000052">I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000053">to a social certainty,</span>
   <span id="f000054">that they were “nice” people.</span>
   <span id="f000055">He was a fine-looking fellow in his neat tennis-flannels,</span>
   <span id="f000056">slim,</span>
   <span id="f000057">graceful,</span>
   <span id="f000058">twenty-eight or thirty years old,</span>
   <span id="f000059">with a Frenchy pointed beard.</span>
   <span id="f000060">She was “nice” in all her pretty clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and she herself was pretty with that type of prettiness which outwears most other types – the prettiness that lies in a rounded figure,</span>
   <span id="f000062">a dusky skin,</span>
   <span id="f000063">plump,</span>
   <span id="f000064">rosy cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000065">white teeth and black eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000066">She might have been twenty-five;</span>
   <span id="f000067">you guessed that she was prettier than she was at twenty,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and that she would be prettier still at forty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">And nice people were all we wanted to make us happy in Mr.&#160;Jacobus’s summer boarding-house on top of Orange Mountain.</span>
   <span id="f000070">For a week we had come down to breakfast each morning,</span>
   <span id="f000071">wondering why we wasted the precious days of idleness with the company gathered around the Jacobus board.</span>
   <span id="f000072">What joy of human companionship was to be had out of Mrs.&#160;Tabb and Miss Hoogencamp,</span>
   <span id="f000073">the two middle-aged gossips from Scranton,</span>
   <span id="f000074">Pa.</span>
   <span id="f000075">– out of Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Biggle,</span>
   <span id="f000076">an indurated head-bookkeeper and his prim and censorious wife – out of old Major Halkit,</span>
   <span id="f000077">a retired business man,</span>
   <span id="f000078">who,</span>
   <span id="f000079">having once sold a few shares on commission,</span>
   <span id="f000080">wrote for circulars of every stock company that was started,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and tried to induce every one to invest who would listen to him?</span>
   <span id="f000082">We looked around at those dull faces,</span>
   <span id="f000083">the truthful indices of mean and barren minds,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and decided that we would leave that morning.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Then we ate Mrs.&#160;Jacobus’s biscuit,</span>
   <span id="f000086">light as Aurora’s cloudlets,</span>
   <span id="f000087">drank her honest coffee,</span>
   <span id="f000088">inhaled the perfume of the late azaleas with which she decked her table,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and decided to postpone our departure one more day.</span>
   <span id="f000090">And then we wandered out to take our morning glance at what we called “our view”;</span>
   <span id="f000091">and it seemed to us as if Tabb and Hoogencamp and Halkit and the Biggleses could not drive us away in a year.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">I was not surprised when,</span>
   <span id="f000093">after breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000094">my wife invited the Bredes to walk with us to “our view.” The Hoogencamp-Biggle-Tabb-Halkit contingent never stirred off Jacobus’s veranda;</span>
   <span id="f000095">but we both felt that the Bredes would not profane that sacred scene.</span>
   <span id="f000096">We strolled slowly across the fields,</span>
   <span id="f000097">passed through the little belt of woods and,</span>
   <span id="f000098">as I heard Mrs.&#160;Brede’s little cry of startled rapture,</span>
   <span id="f000099">I motioned to Brede to look up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“By Jove!” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000101">“heavenly!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">We looked off from the brow of the mountain over fifteen miles of billowing green,</span>
   <span id="f000103">to where,</span>
   <span id="f000104">far across a far stretch of pale blue lay a dim purple line that we knew was Staten Island.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Towns and villages lay before us and under us;</span>
   <span id="f000106">there were ridges and hills,</span>
   <span id="f000107">uplands and lowlands,</span>
   <span id="f000108">woods and plains,</span>
   <span id="f000109">all massed and mingled in that great silent sea of sunlit green.</span>
   <span id="f000110">For silent it was to us,</span>
   <span id="f000111">standing in the silence of a high place – silent with a Sunday stillness that made us listen,</span>
   <span id="f000112">without taking thought,</span>
   <span id="f000113">for the sound of bells coming up from the spires that rose above the tree-tops – the tree-tops that lay as far beneath us as the light clouds were above us that dropped great shadows upon our heads and faint specks of shade upon the broad sweep of land at the mountain’s foot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“And so that is <em>your</em> view?” asked Mrs.&#160;Brede,</span>
   <span id="f000115">after a moment;</span>
   <span id="f000116">“you are very generous to make it ours,</span>
   <span id="f000117">too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">Then we lay down on the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and Brede began to talk,</span>
   <span id="f000120">in a gentle voice,</span>
   <span id="f000121">as if he felt the influence of the place.</span>
   <span id="f000122">He had paddled a canoe,</span>
   <span id="f000123">in his earlier days,</span>
   <span id="f000124">he said,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and he knew every river and creek in that vast stretch of landscape.</span>
   <span id="f000126">He found his landmarks,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and pointed out to us where the Passaic and the Hackensack flowed,</span>
   <span id="f000128">invisible to us,</span>
   <span id="f000129">hidden behind great ridges that in our sight were but combings of the green waves upon which we looked down.</span>
   <span id="f000130">And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000131">on the further side of those broad ridges and rises were scores of villages – a little world of country life,</span>
   <span id="f000132">lying unseen under our eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“A good deal like looking at humanity,” he said;</span>
   <span id="f000134">“there is such a thing as getting so far above our fellow men that we see only one side of them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000136">how much better was this sort of talk than the chatter and gossip of the Tabb and the Hoogencamp – than the Major’s dissertations upon his everlasting circulars!</span>
   <span id="f000137">My wife and I exchanged glances.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000139">when I went up the Matterhorn” Mr.&#160;Brede began.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000141">dear,” interrupted his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000142">“I didn’t know you ever went up the Matterhorn.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“It – it was five years ago,” said Mr.&#160;Brede,</span>
   <span id="f000144">hurriedly.</span>
   <span id="f000145">“I – I didn’t tell you – when I was on the other side,</span>
   <span id="f000146">you know – it was rather dangerous – well,</span>
   <span id="f000147">as I was saying – it looked – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000148">it didn’t look at all like this.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">A cloud floated overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000150">throwing its great shadow over the field where we lay.</span>
   <span id="f000151">The shadow passed over the mountain’s brow and reappeared far below,</span>
   <span id="f000152">a rapidly decreasing blot,</span>
   <span id="f000153">flying eastward over the golden green.</span>
   <span id="f000154">My wife and I exchanged glances once more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">Somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000156">the shadow lingered over us all.</span>
   <span id="f000157">As we went home,</span>
   <span id="f000158">the Bredes went side by side along the narrow path,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and my wife and I walked together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“<em>Should you think</em>,” she asked me,</span>
   <span id="f000161">“that a man would climb the Matterhorn the very first year he was married?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“I don’t know,</span>
   <span id="f000163">my dear,” I answered,</span>
   <span id="f000164">evasively;</span>
   <span id="f000165">“this isn’t the first year I have been married,</span>
   <span id="f000166">not by a good many,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and I wouldn’t climb it – for a farm.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“You know what I mean,” she said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">I did.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000170">When we reached the boarding-house,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Mr.&#160;Jacobus took me aside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“You know,” he began his discourse,</span>
   <span id="f000173">“my wife she uset to live in N’ York!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">I didn’t know,</span>
   <span id="f000175">but I said “Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“She says the numbers on the streets runs criss-cross-like.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Thirty-four’s on one side o’ the street an’ thirty-five on t’other.</span>
   <span id="f000178">How’s that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“That is the invariable rule,</span>
   <span id="f000180">I believe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“Then – I say – these here new folk that you ’n’ your wife seem so mighty taken up with – d’ye know anything about ’em?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“I know nothing about the character of your boarders,</span>
   <span id="f000183">Mr.&#160;Jacobus,” I replied,</span>
   <span id="f000184">conscious of some irritability.</span>
   <span id="f000185">“If I choose to associate with any of them – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“Jess so – jess so!” broke in Jacobus.</span>
   <span id="f000187">“I hain’t nothin’ to say ag’inst yer sosherbil’ty.</span>
   <span id="f000188">But do ye <em>know</em> them?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000190">certainly not,” I replied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“Well – that was all I wuz askin’ ye.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Ye see,</span>
   <span id="f000193">when <em>he</em> come here to take the rooms – you wasn’t here then – he told my wife that he lived at number thirty-four in his street.</span>
   <span id="f000194">An’ yistiddy <em>she</em> told her that they lived at number thirty-five.</span>
   <span id="f000195">He said he lived in an apartment-house.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Now there can’t be no apartment-house on two sides of the same street,</span>
   <span id="f000197">kin they?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“What street was it?” I inquired,</span>
   <span id="f000199">wearily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“Hundred ’n’ twenty-first street.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“May be,” I replied,</span>
   <span id="f000202">still more wearily.</span>
   <span id="f000203">“That’s Harlem.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Nobody knows what people will do in Harlem.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">I went up to my wife’s room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“Don’t you think it’s queer?” she asked me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">“I think I’ll have a talk with that young man to-night,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000208">“and see if he can give some account of himself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000210">my dear,” my wife said,</span>
   <span id="f000211">gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000212">“<em>she</em> doesn’t know whether they’ve had the measles or not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000214">Great Scott!” I exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000215">“they must have had them when they were children.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">“Please don’t be stupid,” said my wife.</span>
   <span id="f000217">“I meant <em>their</em> children.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">After dinner that night – or rather,</span>
   <span id="f000219">after supper,</span>
   <span id="f000220">for we had dinner in the middle of the day at Jacobus’s – I walked down the long verandah to ask Brede,</span>
   <span id="f000221">who was placidly smoking at the other end,</span>
   <span id="f000222">to accompany me on a twilight stroll.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Half way down I met Major Halkit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“That friend of yours,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000225">indicating the unconscious figure at the further end of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000226">“seems to be a queer sort of a Dick.</span>
   <span id="f000227">He told me that he was out of business,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and just looking round for a chance to invest his capital.</span>
   <span id="f000229">And I’ve been telling him what an everlasting big show he had to take stock in the Capitoline Trust Company – starts next month – four million capital – I told you all about it.</span>
   <span id="f000230">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000231">well,’ he says,</span>
   <span id="f000232">’let’s wait and think about it.’ ’Wait!’ says I,</span>
   <span id="f000233">’the Capitoline Trust Company won’t wait for <em>you</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000234">my boy.</span>
   <span id="f000235">This is letting you in on the ground floor,’ says I,</span>
   <span id="f000236">’and it’s now or never.’ ’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000237">let it wait,’ says he.</span>
   <span id="f000238">I don’t know what’s in-<em>to</em> the man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“I don’t know how well he knows his own business,</span>
   <span id="f000240">Major,” I said as I started again for Brede’s end of the veranda.</span>
   <span id="f000241">But I was troubled none the less.</span>
   <span id="f000242">The Major could not have influenced the sale of one share of stock in the Capitoline Company.</span>
   <span id="f000243">But that stock was a great investment;</span>
   <span id="f000244">a rare chance for a purchaser with a few thousand dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Perhaps it was no more remarkable that Brede should not invest than that I should not – and yet,</span>
   <span id="f000246">it seemed to add one circumstance more to the other suspicious circumstances.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000247">When I went upstairs that evening,</span>
   <span id="f000248">I found my wife putting her hair to bed – I don’t know how I can better describe an operation familiar to every married man.</span>
   <span id="f000249">I waited until the last tress was coiled up,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and then I spoke:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">“I’ve talked with Brede,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000252">“and I didn’t have to catechize him.</span>
   <span id="f000253">He seemed to feel that some sort of explanation was looked for,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and he was very outspoken.</span>
   <span id="f000255">You were right about the children – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000256">I must have misunderstood him.</span>
   <span id="f000257">There are only two.</span>
   <span id="f000258">But the Matterhorn episode was simple enough.</span>
   <span id="f000259">He didn’t realize how dangerous it was until he had got so far into it that he couldn’t back out;</span>
   <span id="f000260">and he didn’t tell her,</span>
   <span id="f000261">because he’d left her here,</span>
   <span id="f000262">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and under the circumstances – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“Left her here!” cried my wife.</span>
   <span id="f000265">“I’ve been sitting with her the whole afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000266">sewing,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and she told me that he left her at Geneva,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and came back and took her to Basle,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and the baby was born there – now I’m sure,</span>
   <span id="f000270">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000271">because I asked her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">“Perhaps I was mistaken when I thought he said she was on this side of the water,” I suggested,</span>
   <span id="f000273">with bitter,</span>
   <span id="f000274">biting irony.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“You poor dear,</span>
   <span id="f000276">did I abuse you?” said my wife.</span>
   <span id="f000277">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000278">do you know,</span>
   <span id="f000279">Mrs.&#160;Tabb said that <em>she</em> didn’t know how many lumps of sugar he took in his coffee.</span>
   <span id="f000280">Now that seems queer,</span>
   <span id="f000281">doesn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">It did.</span>
   <span id="f000283">It was a small thing.</span>
   <span id="f000284">But it looked queer,</span>
   <span id="f000285">Very queer.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000286">The next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000287">it was clear that war was declared against the Bredes.</span>
   <span id="f000288">They came down to breakfast somewhat late,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and,</span>
   <span id="f000290">as soon as they arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000291">the Biggleses swooped up the last fragments that remained on their plates,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and made a stately march out of the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000293">Then Miss Hoogencamp arose and departed,</span>
   <span id="f000294">leaving a whole fish-ball on her plate.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Even as Atalanta might have dropped an apple behind her to tempt her pursuer to check his speed,</span>
   <span id="f000296">so Miss Hoogencamp left that fish-ball behind her,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and between her maiden self and contamination.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">We had finished our breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000299">my wife and I,</span>
   <span id="f000300">before the Bredes appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000301">We talked it over,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and agreed that we were glad that we had not been obliged to take sides upon such insufficient testimony.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">After breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000304">it was the custom of the male half of the Jacobus household to go around the corner of the building and smoke their pipes and cigars where they would not annoy the ladies.</span>
   <span id="f000305">We sat under a trellis covered with a grapevine that had borne no grapes in the memory of man.</span>
   <span id="f000306">This vine,</span>
   <span id="f000307">however,</span>
   <span id="f000308">bore leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and these,</span>
   <span id="f000310">on that pleasant summer morning,</span>
   <span id="f000311">shielded from us two persons who were in earnest conversation in the straggling,</span>
   <span id="f000312">half-dead flower-garden at the side of the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“I don’t want,” we heard Mr.&#160;Jacobus say,</span>
   <span id="f000314">“to enter in no man’s <em>pry</em>-vacy;</span>
   <span id="f000315">but I do want to know who it may be,</span>
   <span id="f000316">like,</span>
   <span id="f000317">that I hev in my house.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Now what I ask of <em>you</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and I don’t want you to take it as in no ways <em>personal</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000320">is – hev you your merridge-license with you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“No,” we heard the voice of Mr.&#160;Brede reply.</span>
   <span id="f000322">“Have you yours?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">I think it was a chance shot;</span>
   <span id="f000324">but it told all the same.</span>
   <span id="f000325">The Major</span>
   <span id="f000326">(he was a widower)</span>
   <span id="f000327">and Mr.&#160;Biggle and I looked at each other;</span>
   <span id="f000328">and Mr.&#160;Jacobus,</span>
   <span id="f000329">on the other side of the grape-trellis,</span>
   <span id="f000330">looked at – I don’t know what – and was as silent as we were.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">Where is <em>your</em> marriage-license,</span>
   <span id="f000332">married reader?</span>
   <span id="f000333">Do you know?</span>
   <span id="f000334">Four men,</span>
   <span id="f000335">not including Mr.&#160;Brede,</span>
   <span id="f000336">stood or sat on one side or the other of that grape-trellis,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and not one of them knew where his marriage-license was.</span>
   <span id="f000338">Each of us had had one – the Major had had three.</span>
   <span id="f000339">But where were they?</span>
   <span id="f000340">Where is <em>yours?</em> Tucked in your best-man’s pocket;</span>
   <span id="f000341">deposited in his desk – or washed to a pulp in his white waistcoat</span>
   <span id="f000342">(if white waistcoats be the fashion of the hour),</span>
   <span id="f000343">washed out of existence – can you tell where it is?</span>
   <span id="f000344">Can you – unless you are one of those people who frame that interesting document and hang it upon their drawing-room walls?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">Mr.&#160;Brede’s voice arose,</span>
   <span id="f000346">after an awful stillness of what seemed like five minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and was,</span>
   <span id="f000348">probably,</span>
   <span id="f000349">thirty seconds:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“Mr.&#160;Jacobus,</span>
   <span id="f000351">will you make out your bill at once,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and let me pay it?</span>
   <span id="f000353">I shall leave by the six o’clock train.</span>
   <span id="f000354">And will you also send the wagon for my trunks?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“I hain’t said I wanted to hev ye leave – ” began Mr.&#160;Jacobus;</span>
   <span id="f000356">but Brede cut him short.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“Bring me your bill.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">“But,” remonstrated Jacobus,</span>
   <span id="f000359">“ef ye ain’t – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“Bring me your bill!” said Mr.&#160;Brede.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000361">My wife and I went out for our morning’s walk.</span>
   <span id="f000362">But it seemed to us,</span>
   <span id="f000363">when we looked at “our view,” as if we could only see those invisible villages of which Brede had told us – that other side of the ridges and rises of which we catch no glimpse from lofty hills or from the heights of human self-esteem.</span>
   <span id="f000364">We meant to stay out until the Bredes had taken their departure;</span>
   <span id="f000365">but we returned just in time to see Pete,</span>
   <span id="f000366">the Jacobus darkey,</span>
   <span id="f000367">the blacker of boots,</span>
   <span id="f000368">the brasher of coats,</span>
   <span id="f000369">the general handy-man of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000370">loading the Brede trunks on the Jacobus wagon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">And,</span>
   <span id="f000372">as we stepped upon the verandah,</span>
   <span id="f000373">down came Mrs.&#160;Brede,</span>
   <span id="f000374">leaning on Mr.&#160;Brede’s arm,</span>
   <span id="f000375">as though she were ill;</span>
   <span id="f000376">and it was clear that she had been crying.</span>
   <span id="f000377">There were heavy rings about her pretty black eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">My wife took a step toward her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">“Look at that dress,</span>
   <span id="f000380">dear,” she whispered;</span>
   <span id="f000381">“she never thought anything like this was going to happen when she put <em>that</em> on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">It was a pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000383">delicate,</span>
   <span id="f000384">dainty dress,</span>
   <span id="f000385">a graceful,</span>
   <span id="f000386">narrow-striped affair.</span>
   <span id="f000387">Her hat was trimmed with a narrow-striped silk of the same colors – maroon and white – and in her hand she held a parasol that matched her dress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“She’s had a new dress on twice a day,” said my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000389">“but that’s the prettiest yet.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000391">somehow – I’m <em>awfully</em> sorry they’re going!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">But going they were.</span>
   <span id="f000393">They moved toward the steps.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Mrs.&#160;Brede looked toward my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and my wife moved toward Mrs.&#160;Brede.</span>
   <span id="f000396">But the ostracized woman,</span>
   <span id="f000397">as though she felt the deep humiliation of her position,</span>
   <span id="f000398">turned sharply away,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and opened her parasol to shield her eyes from the sun.</span>
   <span id="f000400">A shower of rice – a half-pound shower of rice – fell down over her pretty hat and her pretty dress,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and fell in a spattering circle on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000402">outlining her skirts – and there it lay in a broad,</span>
   <span id="f000403">uneven band,</span>
   <span id="f000404">bright in the morning sun.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">Mrs.&#160;Brede was in my wife’s arms,</span>
   <span id="f000406">sobbing as if her young heart would break.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000408">you poor,</span>
   <span id="f000409">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000410">silly children!” my wife cried,</span>
   <span id="f000411">as Mrs.&#160;Brede sobbed on her shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000412">“why <em>didn’t</em> you tell us?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">“W-W-W-We didn’t want to be t-t-taken for a b-b-b-b-bridal couple,” sobbed Mrs.&#160;Brede;</span>
   <span id="f000414">“and we d-d-didn’t <em>dream</em> what awful lies we’d have to tell,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and all the aw-awful mixed-up-ness of it.</span>
   <span id="f000416">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000417">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000418">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000419">dear!”</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000420">“Pete!” commanded Mr.&#160;Jacobus,</span>
   <span id="f000421">“put back them trunks.</span>
   <span id="f000422">These folks stays here’s long’s they wants ter.</span>
   <span id="f000423">Mr.&#160;Brede” – he held out a large,</span>
   <span id="f000424">hard hand – “I’d orter’ve known better,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000425">And my last doubt of Mr.&#160;Brede vanished as he shook that grimy hand in manly fashion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">The two women were walking off toward “our view,” each with an arm about the other’s waist – touched by a sudden sisterhood of sympathy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">“Gentlemen,” said Mr.&#160;Brede,</span>
   <span id="f000428">addressing Jacobus,</span>
   <span id="f000429">Biggle,</span>
   <span id="f000430">the Major and me,</span>
   <span id="f000431">“there is a hostelry down the street where they sell honest New Jersey beer.</span>
   <span id="f000432">I recognize the obligations of the situation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">We five men filed down the street.</span>
   <span id="f000434">The two women went toward the pleasant slope where the sunlight gilded the forehead of the great hill.</span>
   <span id="f000435">On Mr.&#160;Jacobus’s veranda lay a spattered circle of shining grains of rice.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Two of Mr.&#160;Jacobus’s pigeons flew down and picked up the shining grains,</span>
   <span id="f000437">making grateful noises far down in their throats.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

