<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Five Beloved Stories</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />O. Henry</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">The Cop and the Anthem</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">On his bench in Madison Square Soapy moved uneasily.</span>
   <span id="f000009">When wild geese honk high of nights,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and when women without sealskin coats grow kind to their husbands,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and when Soapy moves uneasily on his bench in the park,</span>
   <span id="f000012">you may know that winter is near at hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">A dead leaf fell in Soapy’s lap.</span>
   <span id="f000014">That was Jack Frost’s card.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Jack is kind to the regular denizens of Madison Square,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and gives fair warning of his annual call.</span>
   <span id="f000017">At the corners of four streets he hands his pasteboard to the North Wind,</span>
   <span id="f000018">footman of the mansion of All Outdoors,</span>
   <span id="f000019">so that the inhabitants thereof may make ready.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">Soapy’s mind became cognisant of the fact that the time had come for him to resolve himself into a singular Committee of Ways and Means to provide against the coming rigour.</span>
   <span id="f000021">And therefore he moved uneasily on his bench.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">The hibernatorial ambitions of Soapy were not of the highest.</span>
   <span id="f000023">In them there were no considerations of Mediterranean cruises,</span>
   <span id="f000024">of soporific Southern skies drifting in the Vesuvian Bay.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Three months on the Island was what his soul craved.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Three months of assured board and bed and congenial company,</span>
   <span id="f000027">safe from Boreas and bluecoats,</span>
   <span id="f000028">seemed to Soapy the essence of things desirable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">For years the hospitable Blackwell’s had been his winter quarters.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Just as his more fortunate fellow New Yorkers had bought their tickets to Palm Beach and the Riviera each winter,</span>
   <span id="f000031">so Soapy had made his humble arrangements for his annual hegira to the Island.</span>
   <span id="f000032">And now the time was come.</span>
   <span id="f000033">On the previous night three Sabbath newspapers,</span>
   <span id="f000034">distributed beneath his coat,</span>
   <span id="f000035">about his ankles and over his lap,</span>
   <span id="f000036">had failed to repulse the cold as he slept on his bench near the spurting fountain in the ancient square.</span>
   <span id="f000037">So the Island loomed big and timely in Soapy’s mind.</span>
   <span id="f000038">He scorned the provisions made in the name of charity for the city’s dependents.</span>
   <span id="f000039">In Soapy’s opinion the Law was more benign than Philanthropy.</span>
   <span id="f000040">There was an endless round of institutions,</span>
   <span id="f000041">municipal and eleemosynary,</span>
   <span id="f000042">on which he might set out and receive lodging and food accordant with the simple life.</span>
   <span id="f000043">But to one of Soapy’s proud spirit the gifts of charity are encumbered.</span>
   <span id="f000044">If not in coin you must pay in humiliation of spirit for every benefit received at the hands of philanthropy.</span>
   <span id="f000045">As Caesar had his Brutus,</span>
   <span id="f000046">every bed of charity must have its toll of a bath,</span>
   <span id="f000047">every loaf of bread its compensation of a private and personal inquisition.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Wherefore it is better to be a guest of the law,</span>
   <span id="f000049">which though conducted by rules,</span>
   <span id="f000050">does not meddle unduly with a gentleman’s private affairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">Soapy,</span>
   <span id="f000052">having decided to go to the Island,</span>
   <span id="f000053">at once set about accomplishing his desire.</span>
   <span id="f000054">There were many easy ways of doing this.</span>
   <span id="f000055">The pleasantest was to dine luxuriously at some expensive restaurant;</span>
   <span id="f000056">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000057">after declaring insolvency,</span>
   <span id="f000058">be handed over quietly and without uproar to a policeman.</span>
   <span id="f000059">An accommodating magistrate would do the rest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">Soapy left his bench and strolled out of the square and across the level sea of asphalt,</span>
   <span id="f000061">where Broadway and Fifth Avenue flow together.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Up Broadway he turned,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and halted at a glittering café,</span>
   <span id="f000064">where are gathered together nightly the choicest products of the grape,</span>
   <span id="f000065">the silkworm and the protoplasm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">Soapy had confidence in himself from the lowest button of his vest upward.</span>
   <span id="f000067">He was shaven,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and his coat was decent and his neat black,</span>
   <span id="f000069">ready-tied four-in-hand had been presented to him by a lady missionary on Thanksgiving Day.</span>
   <span id="f000070">If he could reach a table in the restaurant unsuspected success would be his.</span>
   <span id="f000071">The portion of him that would show above the table would raise no doubt in the waiter’s mind.</span>
   <span id="f000072">A roasted mallard duck,</span>
   <span id="f000073">thought Soapy,</span>
   <span id="f000074">would be about the thing – with a bottle of Chablis,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and then Camembert,</span>
   <span id="f000076">a demi-tasse and a cigar.</span>
   <span id="f000077">One dollar for the cigar would be enough.</span>
   <span id="f000078">The total would not be so high as to call forth any supreme manifestation of revenge from the café management;</span>
   <span id="f000079">and yet the meat would leave him filled and happy for the journey to his winter refuge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">But as Soapy set foot inside the restaurant door the head waiter’s eye fell upon his frayed trousers and decadent shoes.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Strong and ready hands turned him about and conveyed him in silence and haste to the sidewalk and averted the ignoble fate of the menaced mallard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">Soapy turned off Broadway.</span>
   <span id="f000083">It seemed that his route to the coveted island was not to be an epicurean one.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Some other way of entering limbo must be thought of.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">At a corner of Sixth Avenue electric lights and cunningly displayed wares behind plate-glass made a shop window conspicuous.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Soapy took a cobblestone and dashed it through the glass.</span>
   <span id="f000087">People came running around the corner,</span>
   <span id="f000088">a policeman in the lead.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Soapy stood still,</span>
   <span id="f000090">with his hands in his pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and smiled at the sight of brass buttons.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Where’s the man that done that?” inquired the officer excitedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“Don’t you figure out that I might have had something to do with it?” said Soapy,</span>
   <span id="f000094">not without sarcasm,</span>
   <span id="f000095">but friendly,</span>
   <span id="f000096">as one greets good fortune.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">The policeman’s mind refused to accept Soapy even as a clue.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Men who smash windows do not remain to parley with the law’s minions.</span>
   <span id="f000099">They take to their heels.</span>
   <span id="f000100">The policeman saw a man half way down the block running to catch a car.</span>
   <span id="f000101">With drawn club he joined in the pursuit.</span>
   <span id="f000102">Soapy,</span>
   <span id="f000103">with disgust in his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000104">loafed along,</span>
   <span id="f000105">twice unsuccessful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">On the opposite side of the street was a restaurant of no great pretensions.</span>
   <span id="f000107">It catered to large appetites and modest purses.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Its crockery and atmosphere were thick;</span>
   <span id="f000109">its soup and napery thin.</span>
   <span id="f000110">Into this place Soapy took his accusive shoes and telltale trousers without challenge.</span>
   <span id="f000111">At a table he sat and consumed beefsteak,</span>
   <span id="f000112">flapjacks,</span>
   <span id="f000113">doughnuts and pie.</span>
   <span id="f000114">And then to the waiter be betrayed the fact that the minutest coin and himself were strangers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000116">get busy and call a cop,” said Soapy.</span>
   <span id="f000117">“And don’t keep a gentleman waiting.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">“No cop for youse,” said the waiter,</span>
   <span id="f000119">with a voice like butter cakes and an eye like the cherry in a Manhattan cocktail.</span>
   <span id="f000120">“Hey,</span>
   <span id="f000121">Con!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">Neatly upon his left ear on the callous pavement two waiters pitched Soapy.</span>
   <span id="f000123">He arose,</span>
   <span id="f000124">joint by joint,</span>
   <span id="f000125">as a carpenter’s rule opens,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and beat the dust from his clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Arrest seemed but a rosy dream.</span>
   <span id="f000128">The Island seemed very far away.</span>
   <span id="f000129">A policeman who stood before a drug store two doors away laughed and walked down the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">Five blocks Soapy travelled before his courage permitted him to woo capture again.</span>
   <span id="f000131">This time the opportunity presented what he fatuously termed to himself a “cinch.” A young woman of a modest and pleasing guise was standing before a show window gazing with sprightly interest at its display of shaving mugs and inkstands,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and two yards from the window a large policeman of severe demeanour leaned against a water plug.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">It was Soapy’s design to assume the role of the despicable and execrated “masher.” The refined and elegant appearance of his victim and the contiguity of the conscientious cop encouraged him to believe that he would soon feel the pleasant official clutch upon his arm that would insure his winter quarters on the right little,</span>
   <span id="f000134">tight little isle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">Soapy straightened the lady missionary’s ready-made tie,</span>
   <span id="f000136">dragged his shrinking cuffs into the open,</span>
   <span id="f000137">set his hat at a killing cant and sidled toward the young woman.</span>
   <span id="f000138">He made eyes at her,</span>
   <span id="f000139">was taken with sudden coughs and “hems,” smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000140">smirked and went brazenly through the impudent and contemptible litany of the “masher.” With half an eye Soapy saw that the policeman was watching him fixedly.</span>
   <span id="f000141">The young woman moved away a few steps,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and again bestowed her absorbed attention upon the shaving mugs.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Soapy followed,</span>
   <span id="f000144">boldly stepping to her side,</span>
   <span id="f000145">raised his hat and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“Ah there,</span>
   <span id="f000147">Bedelia!</span>
   <span id="f000148">Don’t you want to come and play in my yard?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">The policeman was still looking.</span>
   <span id="f000150">The persecuted young woman had but to beckon a finger and Soapy would be practically en route for his insular haven.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Already he imagined he could feel the cozy warmth of the station-house.</span>
   <span id="f000152">The young woman faced him and,</span>
   <span id="f000153">stretching out a hand,</span>
   <span id="f000154">caught Soapy’s coat sleeve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“Sure,</span>
   <span id="f000156">Mike,” she said joyfully,</span>
   <span id="f000157">“if you’ll blow me to a pail of suds.</span>
   <span id="f000158">I’d have spoke to you sooner,</span>
   <span id="f000159">but the cop was watching.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">With the young woman playing the clinging ivy to his oak Soapy walked past the policeman overcome with gloom.</span>
   <span id="f000161">He seemed doomed to liberty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">At the next corner he shook off his companion and ran.</span>
   <span id="f000163">He halted in the district where by night are found the lightest streets,</span>
   <span id="f000164">hearts,</span>
   <span id="f000165">vows and librettos.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Women in furs and men in greatcoats moved gaily in the wintry air.</span>
   <span id="f000167">A sudden fear seized Soapy that some dreadful enchantment had rendered him immune to arrest.</span>
   <span id="f000168">The thought brought a little of panic upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and when he came upon another policeman lounging grandly in front of a transplendent theatre he caught at the immediate straw of “disorderly conduct.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">On the sidewalk Soapy began to yell drunken gibberish at the top of his harsh voice.</span>
   <span id="f000171">He danced,</span>
   <span id="f000172">howled,</span>
   <span id="f000173">raved and otherwise disturbed the welkin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">The policeman twirled his club,</span>
   <span id="f000175">turned his back to Soapy and remarked to a citizen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“’Tis one of them Yale lads celebratin’ the goose egg they give to the Hartford College.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Noisy;</span>
   <span id="f000178">but no harm.</span>
   <span id="f000179">We’ve instructions to lave them be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">Disconsolate,</span>
   <span id="f000181">Soapy ceased his unavailing racket.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Would never a policeman lay hands on him?</span>
   <span id="f000183">In his fancy the Island seemed an unattainable Arcadia.</span>
   <span id="f000184">He buttoned his thin coat against the chilling wind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">In a cigar store he saw a well-dressed man lighting a cigar at a swinging light.</span>
   <span id="f000186">His silk umbrella he had set by the door on entering.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Soapy stepped inside,</span>
   <span id="f000188">secured the umbrella and sauntered off with it slowly.</span>
   <span id="f000189">The man at the cigar light followed hastily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“My umbrella,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000191">sternly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000193">is it?” sneered Soapy,</span>
   <span id="f000194">adding insult to petit larceny.</span>
   <span id="f000195">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000196">why don’t you call a policeman?</span>
   <span id="f000197">I took it.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Your umbrella!</span>
   <span id="f000199">Why don’t you call a cop?</span>
   <span id="f000200">There stands one on the corner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">The umbrella owner slowed his steps.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Soapy did likewise,</span>
   <span id="f000203">with a presentiment that luck would again run against him.</span>
   <span id="f000204">The policeman looked at the two curiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“Of course,” said the umbrella man – “that is – well,</span>
   <span id="f000206">you know how these mistakes occur – I – if it’s your umbrella I hope you’ll excuse me – I picked it up this morning in a restaurant – If you recognise it as yours,</span>
   <span id="f000207">why – I hope you’ll – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“Of course it’s mine,” said Soapy,</span>
   <span id="f000209">viciously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">The ex-umbrella man retreated.</span>
   <span id="f000211">The policeman hurried to assist a tall blonde in an opera cloak across the street in front of a street car that was approaching two blocks away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">Soapy walked eastward through a street damaged by improvements.</span>
   <span id="f000213">He hurled the umbrella wrathfully into an excavation.</span>
   <span id="f000214">He muttered against the men who wear helmets and carry clubs.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Because he wanted to fall into their clutches,</span>
   <span id="f000216">they seemed to regard him as a king who could do no wrong.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">At length Soapy reached one of the avenues to the east where the glitter and turmoil was but faint.</span>
   <span id="f000218">He set his face down this toward Madison Square,</span>
   <span id="f000219">for the homing instinct survives even when the home is a park bench.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">But on an unusually quiet corner Soapy came to a standstill.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Here was an old church,</span>
   <span id="f000222">quaint and rambling and gabled.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Through one violet-stained window a soft light glowed,</span>
   <span id="f000224">where,</span>
   <span id="f000225">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000226">the organist loitered over the keys,</span>
   <span id="f000227">making sure of his mastery of the coming Sabbath anthem.</span>
   <span id="f000228">For there drifted out to Soapy’s ears sweet music that caught and held him transfixed against the convolutions of the iron fence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">The moon was above,</span>
   <span id="f000230">lustrous and serene;</span>
   <span id="f000231">vehicles and pedestrians were few;</span>
   <span id="f000232">sparrows twittered sleepily in the eaves – for a little while the scene might have been a country churchyard.</span>
   <span id="f000233">And the anthem that the organist played cemented Soapy to the iron fence,</span>
   <span id="f000234">for he had known it well in the days when his life contained such things as mothers and roses and ambitions and friends and immaculate thoughts and collars.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">The conjunction of Soapy’s receptive state of mind and the influences about the old church wrought a sudden and wonderful change in his soul.</span>
   <span id="f000236">He viewed with swift horror the pit into which he had tumbled,</span>
   <span id="f000237">the degraded days,</span>
   <span id="f000238">unworthy desires,</span>
   <span id="f000239">dead hopes,</span>
   <span id="f000240">wrecked faculties and base motives that made up his existence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">And also in a moment his heart responded thrillingly to this novel mood.</span>
   <span id="f000242">An instantaneous and strong impulse moved him to battle with his desperate fate.</span>
   <span id="f000243">He would pull himself out of the mire;</span>
   <span id="f000244">he would make a man of himself again;</span>
   <span id="f000245">he would conquer the evil that had taken possession of him.</span>
   <span id="f000246">There was time;</span>
   <span id="f000247">he was comparatively young yet;</span>
   <span id="f000248">he would resurrect his old eager ambitions and pursue them without faltering.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Those solemn but sweet organ notes had set up a revolution in him.</span>
   <span id="f000250">To-morrow he would go into the roaring downtown district and find work.</span>
   <span id="f000251">A fur importer had once offered him a place as driver.</span>
   <span id="f000252">He would find him to-morrow and ask for the position.</span>
   <span id="f000253">He would be somebody in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000254">He would –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">Soapy felt a hand laid on his arm.</span>
   <span id="f000256">He looked quickly around into the broad face of a policeman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">“What are you doin’ here?” asked the officer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“Nothin’,” said Soapy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">“Then come along,” said the policeman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">“Three months on the Island,” said the Magistrate in the Police Court the next morning.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

