<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Section I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">The mental features discoursed of as the analytical,</span>
   <span id="f000003">are,</span>
   <span id="f000004">in themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000005">but little susceptible of analysis.</span>
   <span id="f000006">We appreciate them only in their effects.</span>
   <span id="f000007">We know of them,</span>
   <span id="f000008">among other things,</span>
   <span id="f000009">that they are always to their possessor,</span>
   <span id="f000010">when inordinately possessed,</span>
   <span id="f000011">a source of the liveliest enjoyment.</span>
   <span id="f000012">As the strong man exults in his physical ability,</span>
   <span id="f000013">delighting in such exercises as call his muscles into action,</span>
   <span id="f000014">so glories the analyst in that moral activity which <em>disentangles.</em> He derives pleasure from even the most trivial occupations bringing his talent into play.</span>
   <span id="f000015">He is fond of enigmas,</span>
   <span id="f000016">of conundrums,</span>
   <span id="f000017">of hieroglyphics;</span>
   <span id="f000018">exhibiting in his solutions of each a degree of <em>acumen</em> which appears to the ordinary apprehension præternatural.</span>
   <span id="f000019">His results,</span>
   <span id="f000020">brought about by the very soul and essence of method,</span>
   <span id="f000021">have,</span>
   <span id="f000022">in truth,</span>
   <span id="f000023">the whole air of intuition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">The faculty of re-solution is possibly much invigorated by mathematical study,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and especially by that highest branch of it which,</span>
   <span id="f000026">unjustly,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and merely on account of its retrograde operations,</span>
   <span id="f000028">has been called,</span>
   <span id="f000029">as if <em>par excellence</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000030">analysis.</span>
   <span id="f000031">Yet to calculate is not in itself to analyse.</span>
   <span id="f000032">A chess-player,</span>
   <span id="f000033">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000034">does the one without effort at the other.</span>
   <span id="f000035">It follows that the game of chess,</span>
   <span id="f000036">in its effects upon mental character,</span>
   <span id="f000037">is greatly misunderstood.</span>
   <span id="f000038">I am not now writing a treatise,</span>
   <span id="f000039">but simply prefacing a somewhat peculiar narrative by observations very much at random;</span>
   <span id="f000040">I will,</span>
   <span id="f000041">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000042">take occasion to assert that the higher powers of the reflective intellect are more decidedly and more usefully tasked by the unostentatious game of draughts than by all the elaborate frivolity of chess.</span>
   <span id="f000043">In this latter,</span>
   <span id="f000044">where the pieces have different and <em>bizarre</em> motions,</span>
   <span id="f000045">with various and variable values,</span>
   <span id="f000046">what is only complex is mistaken</span>
   <span id="f000047">(a not unusual error)</span>
   <span id="f000048">for what is profound.</span>
   <span id="f000049">The <em>attention</em> is here called powerfully into play.</span>
   <span id="f000050">If it flag for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000051">an oversight is committed resulting in injury or defeat.</span>
   <span id="f000052">The possible moves being not only manifold but involute,</span>
   <span id="f000053">the chances of such oversights are multiplied;</span>
   <span id="f000054">and in nine cases out of ten it is the more concentrative rather than the more acute player who conquers.</span>
   <span id="f000055">In draughts,</span>
   <span id="f000056">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000057">where the moves are <em>unique</em> and have but little variation,</span>
   <span id="f000058">the probabilities of inadvertence are diminished,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and the mere attention being left comparatively unemployed,</span>
   <span id="f000060">what advantages are obtained by either party are obtained by superior <em>acumen</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000061">To be less abstract – Let us suppose a game of draughts where the pieces are reduced to four kings,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and where,</span>
   <span id="f000063">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000064">no oversight is to be expected.</span>
   <span id="f000065">It is obvious that here the victory can be decided</span>
   <span id="f000066">(the players being at all equal)</span>
   <span id="f000067">only by some <em>recherché</em> movement,</span>
   <span id="f000068">the result of some strong exertion of the intellect.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Deprived of ordinary resources,</span>
   <span id="f000070">the analyst throws himself into the spirit of his opponent,</span>
   <span id="f000071">identifies himself therewith,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and not unfrequently sees thus,</span>
   <span id="f000073">at a glance,</span>
   <span id="f000074">the sole methods</span>
   <span id="f000075">(sometime indeed absurdly simple ones)</span>
   <span id="f000076">by which he may seduce into error or hurry into miscalculation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">Whist has long been noted for its influence upon what is termed the calculating power;</span>
   <span id="f000078">and men of the highest order of intellect have been known to take an apparently unaccountable delight in it,</span>
   <span id="f000079">while eschewing chess as frivolous.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Beyond doubt there is nothing of a similar nature so greatly tasking the faculty of analysis.</span>
   <span id="f000081">The best chess-player in Christendom <em>may</em> be little more than the best player of chess;</span>
   <span id="f000082">but proficiency in whist implies capacity for success in all those more important undertakings where mind struggles with mind.</span>
   <span id="f000083">When I say proficiency,</span>
   <span id="f000084">I mean that perfection in the game which includes a comprehension of <em>all</em> the sources whence legitimate advantage may be derived.</span>
   <span id="f000085">These are not only manifold but multiform,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and lie frequently among recesses of thought altogether inaccessible to the ordinary understanding.</span>
   <span id="f000087">To observe attentively is to remember distinctly;</span>
   <span id="f000088">and,</span>
   <span id="f000089">so far,</span>
   <span id="f000090">the concentrative chess-player will do very well at whist;</span>
   <span id="f000091">while the rules of Hoyle</span>
   <span id="f000092">(themselves based upon the mere mechanism of the game)</span>
   <span id="f000093">are sufficiently and generally comprehensible.</span>
   <span id="f000094">Thus to have a retentive memory,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and to proceed by “the book,” are points commonly regarded as the sum total of good playing.</span>
   <span id="f000096">But it is in matters beyond the limits of mere rule that the skill of the analyst is evinced.</span>
   <span id="f000097">He makes,</span>
   <span id="f000098">in silence,</span>
   <span id="f000099">a host of observations and inferences.</span>
   <span id="f000100">So,</span>
   <span id="f000101">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000102">do his companions;</span>
   <span id="f000103">and the difference in the extent of the information obtained,</span>
   <span id="f000104">lies not so much in the validity of the inference as in the quality of the observation.</span>
   <span id="f000105">The necessary knowledge is that of <em>what</em> to observe.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Our player confines himself not at all;</span>
   <span id="f000107">nor,</span>
   <span id="f000108">because the game is the object,</span>
   <span id="f000109">does he reject deductions from things external to the game.</span>
   <span id="f000110">He examines the countenance of his partner,</span>
   <span id="f000111">comparing it carefully with that of each of his opponents.</span>
   <span id="f000112">He considers the mode of assorting the cards in each hand;</span>
   <span id="f000113">often counting trump by trump,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and honor by honor,</span>
   <span id="f000115">through the glances bestowed by their holders upon each.</span>
   <span id="f000116">He notes every variation of face as the play progresses,</span>
   <span id="f000117">gathering a fund of thought from the differences in the expression of certainty,</span>
   <span id="f000118">of surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000119">of triumph,</span>
   <span id="f000120">or of chagrin.</span>
   <span id="f000121">From the manner of gathering up a trick he judges whether the person taking it can make another in the suit.</span>
   <span id="f000122">He recognises what is played through feint,</span>
   <span id="f000123">by the air with which it is thrown upon the table.</span>
   <span id="f000124">A casual or inadvertent word;</span>
   <span id="f000125">the accidental dropping or turning of a card,</span>
   <span id="f000126">with the accompanying anxiety or carelessness in regard to its concealment;</span>
   <span id="f000127">the counting of the tricks,</span>
   <span id="f000128">with the order of their arrangement;</span>
   <span id="f000129">embarrassment,</span>
   <span id="f000130">hesitation,</span>
   <span id="f000131">eagerness or trepidation – all afford,</span>
   <span id="f000132">to his apparently intuitive perception,</span>
   <span id="f000133">indications of the true state of affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000134">The first two or three rounds having been played,</span>
   <span id="f000135">he is in full possession of the contents of each hand,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and thenceforward puts down his cards with as absolute a precision of purpose as if the rest of the party had turned outward the faces of their own.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">The analytical power should not be confounded with ample ingenuity;</span>
   <span id="f000138">for while the analyst is necessarily ingenious,</span>
   <span id="f000139">the ingenious man is often remarkably incapable of analysis.</span>
   <span id="f000140">The constructive or combining power,</span>
   <span id="f000141">by which ingenuity is usually manifested,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and to which the phrenologists</span>
   <span id="f000143">(I believe erroneously)</span>
   <span id="f000144">have assigned a separate organ,</span>
   <span id="f000145">supposing it a primitive faculty,</span>
   <span id="f000146">has been so frequently seen in those whose intellect bordered otherwise upon idiocy,</span>
   <span id="f000147">as to have attracted general observation among writers on morals.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Between ingenuity and the analytic ability there exists a difference far greater,</span>
   <span id="f000149">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000150">than that between the fancy and the imagination,</span>
   <span id="f000151">but of a character very strictly analogous.</span>
   <span id="f000152">It will be found,</span>
   <span id="f000153">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000154">that the ingenious are always fanciful,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and the <em>truly</em> imaginative never otherwise than analytic.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">The narrative which follows will appear to the reader somewhat in the light of a commentary upon the propositions just advanced.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">Residing in Paris during the spring and part of the summer of 18 – ,</span>
   <span id="f000158">I there became acquainted with a Monsieur C.</span>
   <span id="f000159">Auguste Dupin.</span>
   <span id="f000160">This young gentleman was of an excellent – indeed of an illustrious family,</span>
   <span id="f000161">but,</span>
   <span id="f000162">by a variety of untoward events,</span>
   <span id="f000163">had been reduced to such poverty that the energy of his character succumbed beneath it,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and he ceased to bestir himself in the world,</span>
   <span id="f000165">or to care for the retrieval of his fortunes.</span>
   <span id="f000166">By courtesy of his creditors,</span>
   <span id="f000167">there still remained in his possession a small remnant of his patrimony;</span>
   <span id="f000168">and,</span>
   <span id="f000169">upon the income arising from this,</span>
   <span id="f000170">he managed,</span>
   <span id="f000171">by means of a rigorous economy,</span>
   <span id="f000172">to procure the necessaries of life,</span>
   <span id="f000173">without troubling himself about its superfluities.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Books,</span>
   <span id="f000175">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000176">were his sole luxuries,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and in Paris these are easily obtained.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">Our first meeting was at an obscure library in the Rue Montmartre,</span>
   <span id="f000179">where the accident of our both being in search of the same very rare and very remarkable volume,</span>
   <span id="f000180">brought us into closer communion.</span>
   <span id="f000181">We saw each other again and again.</span>
   <span id="f000182">I was deeply interested in the little family history which he detailed to me with all that candor which a Frenchman indulges whenever mere self is his theme.</span>
   <span id="f000183">I was astonished,</span>
   <span id="f000184">too,</span>
   <span id="f000185">at the vast extent of his reading;</span>
   <span id="f000186">and,</span>
   <span id="f000187">above all,</span>
   <span id="f000188">I felt my soul enkindled within me by the wild fervor,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and the vivid freshness of his imagination.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Seeking in Paris the objects I then sought,</span>
   <span id="f000191">I felt that the society of such a man would be to me a treasure beyond price;</span>
   <span id="f000192">and this feeling I frankly confided to him.</span>
   <span id="f000193">It was at length arranged that we should live together during my stay in the city;</span>
   <span id="f000194">and as my worldly circumstances were somewhat less embarrassed than his own,</span>
   <span id="f000195">I was permitted to be at the expense of renting,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and furnishing in a style which suited the rather fantastic gloom of our common temper,</span>
   <span id="f000197">a time-eaten and grotesque mansion,</span>
   <span id="f000198">long deserted through superstitions into which we did not inquire,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and tottering to its fall in a retired and desolate portion of the Faubourg St.&#160;Germain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">Had the routine of our life at this place been known to the world,</span>
   <span id="f000201">we should have been regarded as madmen – although,</span>
   <span id="f000202">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000203">as madmen of a harmless nature.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Our seclusion was perfect.</span>
   <span id="f000205">We admitted no visitors.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Indeed the locality of our retirement had been carefully kept a secret from my own former associates;</span>
   <span id="f000207">and it had been many years since Dupin had ceased to know or be known in Paris.</span>
   <span id="f000208">We existed within ourselves alone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">It was a freak of fancy in my friend</span>
   <span id="f000210">(for what else shall I call it?)</span>
   <span id="f000211">to be enamored of the Night for her own sake;</span>
   <span id="f000212">and into this <em>bizarrerie</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000213">as into all his others,</span>
   <span id="f000214">I quietly fell;</span>
   <span id="f000215">giving myself up to his wild whims with a perfect <em>abandon</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000216">The sable divinity would not herself dwell with us always;</span>
   <span id="f000217">but we could counterfeit her presence.</span>
   <span id="f000218">At the first dawn of the morning we closed all the messy shutters of our old building;</span>
   <span id="f000219">lighting a couple of tapers which,</span>
   <span id="f000220">strongly perfumed,</span>
   <span id="f000221">threw out only the ghastliest and feeblest of rays.</span>
   <span id="f000222">By the aid of these we then busied our souls in dreams – reading,</span>
   <span id="f000223">writing,</span>
   <span id="f000224">or conversing,</span>
   <span id="f000225">until warned by the clock of the advent of the true Darkness.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Then we sallied forth into the streets arm in arm,</span>
   <span id="f000227">continuing the topics of the day,</span>
   <span id="f000228">or roaming far and wide until a late hour,</span>
   <span id="f000229">seeking,</span>
   <span id="f000230">amid the wild lights and shadows of the populous city,</span>
   <span id="f000231">that infinity of mental excitement which quiet observation can afford.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">At such times I could not help remarking and admiring</span>
   <span id="f000233">(although from his rich ideality I had been prepared to expect it)</span>
   <span id="f000234">a peculiar analytic ability in Dupin.</span>
   <span id="f000235">He seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000236">too,</span>
   <span id="f000237">to take an eager delight in its exercise – if not exactly in its display – and did not hesitate to confess the pleasure thus derived.</span>
   <span id="f000238">He boasted to me,</span>
   <span id="f000239">with a low chuckling laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000240">that most men,</span>
   <span id="f000241">in respect to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000242">wore windows in their bosoms,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and was wont to follow up such assertions by direct and very startling proofs of his intimate knowledge of my own.</span>
   <span id="f000244">His manner at these moments was frigid and abstract;</span>
   <span id="f000245">his eyes were vacant in expression;</span>
   <span id="f000246">while his voice,</span>
   <span id="f000247">usually a rich tenor,</span>
   <span id="f000248">rose into a treble which would have sounded petulantly but for the deliberateness and entire distinctness of the enunciation.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Observing him in these moods,</span>
   <span id="f000250">I often dwelt meditatively upon the old philosophy of the Bi-Part Soul,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and amused myself with the fancy of a double Dupin – the creative and the resolvent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">Let it not be supposed,</span>
   <span id="f000253">from what I have just said,</span>
   <span id="f000254">that I am detailing any mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000255">or penning any romance.</span>
   <span id="f000256">What I have described in the Frenchman,</span>
   <span id="f000257">was merely the result of an excited,</span>
   <span id="f000258">or perhaps of a diseased intelligence.</span>
   <span id="f000259">But of the character of his remarks at the periods in question an example will best convey the idea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">We were strolling one night down a long dirty street in the vicinity of the Palais Royal.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Being both,</span>
   <span id="f000262">apparently,</span>
   <span id="f000263">occupied with thought,</span>
   <span id="f000264">neither of us had spoken a syllable for fifteen minutes at least.</span>
   <span id="f000265">All at once Dupin broke forth with these words:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“He is a very little fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000267">that’s true,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and would do better for the <em>Théâtre des Variétés</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“There can be no doubt of that,” I replied unwittingly,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and not at first observing</span>
   <span id="f000271">(so much had I been absorbed in reflection)</span>
   <span id="f000272">the extraordinary manner in which the speaker had chimed in with my meditations.</span>
   <span id="f000273">In an instant afterward I recollected myself,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and my astonishment was profound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“Dupin,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000276">gravely,</span>
   <span id="f000277">“this is beyond my comprehension.</span>
   <span id="f000278">I do not hesitate to say that I am amazed,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and can scarcely credit my senses.</span>
   <span id="f000280">How was it possible you should know I was thinking of – -?” Here I paused,</span>
   <span id="f000281">to ascertain beyond a doubt whether he really knew of whom I thought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">– “of Chantilly,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000283">“why do you pause?</span>
   <span id="f000284">You were remarking to yourself that his diminutive figure unfitted him for tragedy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">This was precisely what had formed the subject of my reflections.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Chantilly was a <em>quondam</em> cobbler of the Rue St.&#160;Denis,</span>
   <span id="f000287">who,</span>
   <span id="f000288">becoming stage-mad,</span>
   <span id="f000289">had attempted the <em>rôle</em> of Xerxes,</span>
   <span id="f000290">in Crébillon’s tragedy so called,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and been notoriously Pasquinaded for his pains.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“Tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000293">for Heaven’s sake,” I exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000294">“the method – if method there is – by which you have been enabled to fathom my soul in this matter.” In fact I was even more startled than I would have been willing to express.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“It was the fruiterer,” replied my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000296">“who brought you to the conclusion that the mender of soles was not of sufficient height for Xerxes <em>et id genus omne</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“The fruiterer!</span>
   <span id="f000298">– you astonish me – I know no fruiterer whomsoever.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“The man who ran up against you as we entered the street – it may have been fifteen minutes ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">I now remembered that,</span>
   <span id="f000301">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000302">a fruiterer,</span>
   <span id="f000303">carrying upon his head a large basket of apples,</span>
   <span id="f000304">had nearly thrown me down,</span>
   <span id="f000305">by accident,</span>
   <span id="f000306">as we passed from the Rue C – into the thoroughfare where we stood;</span>
   <span id="f000307">but what this had to do with Chantilly I could not possibly understand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">There was not a particle of <em>charlâtanerie</em> about Dupin.</span>
   <span id="f000309">“I will explain,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000310">“and that you may comprehend all clearly,</span>
   <span id="f000311">we will first retrace the course of your meditations,</span>
   <span id="f000312">from the moment in which I spoke to you until that of the <em>rencontre</em> with the fruiterer in question.</span>
   <span id="f000313">The larger links of the chain run thus – Chantilly,</span>
   <span id="f000314">Orion,</span>
   <span id="f000315">Dr.&#160;Nichols,</span>
   <span id="f000316">Epicurus,</span>
   <span id="f000317">Stereotomy,</span>
   <span id="f000318">the street stones,</span>
   <span id="f000319">the fruiterer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">There are few persons who have not,</span>
   <span id="f000321">at some period of their lives,</span>
   <span id="f000322">amused themselves in retracing the steps by which particular conclusions of their own minds have been attained.</span>
   <span id="f000323">The occupation is often full of interest and he who attempts it for the first time is astonished by the apparently illimitable distance and incoherence between the starting-point and the goal.</span>
   <span id="f000324">What,</span>
   <span id="f000325">then,</span>
   <span id="f000326">must have been my amazement when I heard the Frenchman speak what he had just spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and when I could not help acknowledging that he had spoken the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000328">He continued:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">We had been talking of horses,</span>
   <span id="f000330">if I remember aright,</span>
   <span id="f000331">just before leaving the Rue C – .</span>
   <span id="f000332">This was the last subject we discussed.</span>
   <span id="f000333">As we crossed into this street,</span>
   <span id="f000334">a fruiterer,</span>
   <span id="f000335">with a large basket upon his head,</span>
   <span id="f000336">brushing quickly past us,</span>
   <span id="f000337">thrust you upon a pile of paving stones collected at a spot where the causeway is undergoing repair.</span>
   <span id="f000338">You stepped upon one of the loose fragments,</span>
   <span id="f000339">slipped,</span>
   <span id="f000340">slightly strained your ankle,</span>
   <span id="f000341">appeared vexed or sulky,</span>
   <span id="f000342">muttered a few words,</span>
   <span id="f000343">turned to look at the pile,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and then proceeded in silence.</span>
   <span id="f000345">I was not particularly attentive to what you did;</span>
   <span id="f000346">but observation has become with me,</span>
   <span id="f000347">of late,</span>
   <span id="f000348">a species of necessity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">You kept your eyes upon the ground – glancing,</span>
   <span id="f000350">with a petulant expression,</span>
   <span id="f000351">at the holes and ruts in the pavement,</span>
   <span id="f000352">(so that I saw you were still thinking of the stones,)</span>
   <span id="f000353">until we reached the little alley called Lamartine,</span>
   <span id="f000354">which has been paved,</span>
   <span id="f000355">by way of experiment,</span>
   <span id="f000356">with the overlapping and riveted blocks.</span>
   <span id="f000357">Here your countenance brightened up,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and,</span>
   <span id="f000359">perceiving your lips move,</span>
   <span id="f000360">I could not doubt that you murmured the word ’stereotomy,’ a term very affectedly applied to this species of pavement.</span>
   <span id="f000361">I knew that you could not say to yourself ’stereotomy’ without being brought to think of atomies,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and thus of the theories of Epicurus;</span>
   <span id="f000363">and since,</span>
   <span id="f000364">when we discussed this subject not very long ago,</span>
   <span id="f000365">I mentioned to you how singularly,</span>
   <span id="f000366">yet with how little notice,</span>
   <span id="f000367">the vague guesses of that noble Greek had met with confirmation in the late nebular cosmogony,</span>
   <span id="f000368">I felt that you could not avoid casting your eyes upward to the great <em>nebula</em> in Orion,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and I certainly expected that you would do so.</span>
   <span id="f000370">You did look up;</span>
   <span id="f000371">and I was now assured that I had correctly followed your steps.</span>
   <span id="f000372">But in that bitter <em>tirade</em> upon Chantilly,</span>
   <span id="f000373">which appeared in yesterday’s ’<em>Musée</em>,’ the satirist,</span>
   <span id="f000374">making some disgraceful allusions to the cobbler’s change of name upon assuming the buskin,</span>
   <span id="f000375">quoted a Latin line about which we have often conversed.</span>
   <span id="f000376">I mean the line</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000377">Perdidit antiquum litera sonum.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000378">“I had told you that this was in reference to Orion,</span>
   <span id="f000379">formerly written Urion;</span>
   <span id="f000380">and,</span>
   <span id="f000381">from certain pungencies connected with this explanation,</span>
   <span id="f000382">I was aware that you could not have forgotten it.</span>
   <span id="f000383">It was clear,</span>
   <span id="f000384">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000385">that you would not fail to combine the two ideas of Orion and Chantilly.</span>
   <span id="f000386">That you did combine them I saw by the character of the smile which passed over your lips.</span>
   <span id="f000387">You thought of the poor cobbler’s immolation.</span>
   <span id="f000388">So far,</span>
   <span id="f000389">you had been stooping in your gait;</span>
   <span id="f000390">but now I saw you draw yourself up to your full height.</span>
   <span id="f000391">I was then sure that you reflected upon the diminutive figure of Chantilly.</span>
   <span id="f000392">At this point I interrupted your meditations to remark that as,</span>
   <span id="f000393">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000394">he was a very little fellow – that Chantilly – he would do better at the <em>Théâtre des Variétés</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">Not long after this,</span>
   <span id="f000396">we were looking over an evening edition of the “Gazette des Tribunaux,” when the following paragraphs arrested our attention.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000397">EXTRAORDINARY MURDERS.</span>
   <span id="f000398">– This morning,</span>
   <span id="f000399">about three o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000400">the inhabitants of the Quartier St.&#160;Roch were aroused from sleep by a succession of terrific shrieks,</span>
   <span id="f000401">issuing,</span>
   <span id="f000402">apparently,</span>
   <span id="f000403">from the fourth story of a house in the Rue Morgue,</span>
   <span id="f000404">known to be in the sole occupancy of one Madame L’Espanaye,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and her daughter Mademoiselle Camille L’Espanaye.</span>
   <span id="f000406">After some delay,</span>
   <span id="f000407">occasioned by a fruitless attempt to procure admission in the usual manner,</span>
   <span id="f000408">the gateway was broken in with a crowbar,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and eight or ten of the neighbors entered accompanied by two <em>gendarmes</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000410">By this time the cries had ceased;</span>
   <span id="f000411">but,</span>
   <span id="f000412">as the party rushed up the first flight of stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000413">two or more rough voices in angry contention were distinguished and seemed to proceed from the upper part of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000414">As the second landing was reached,</span>
   <span id="f000415">these sounds,</span>
   <span id="f000416">also,</span>
   <span id="f000417">had ceased and everything remained perfectly quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The party spread themselves and hurried from room to room.</span>
   <span id="f000419">Upon arriving at a large back chamber in the fourth story,</span>
   <span id="f000420">(the door of which,</span>
   <span id="f000421">being found locked,</span>
   <span id="f000422">with the key inside,</span>
   <span id="f000423">was forced open,)</span>
   <span id="f000424">a spectacle presented itself which struck every one present not less with horror than with astonishment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">The apartment was in the wildest disorder – the furniture broken and thrown about in all directions.</span>
   <span id="f000426">There was only one bedstead;</span>
   <span id="f000427">and from this the bed had been removed,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and thrown into the middle of the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000429">On a chair lay a razor,</span>
   <span id="f000430">besmeared with blood.</span>
   <span id="f000431">On the hearth were two or three long and thick tresses of grey human hair,</span>
   <span id="f000432">also dabbled in blood,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and seeming to have been pulled out by the roots.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Upon the floor were found four Napoleons,</span>
   <span id="f000435">an ear-ring of topaz,</span>
   <span id="f000436">three large silver spoons,</span>
   <span id="f000437">three smaller of<em> métal d’Alger</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and two bags,</span>
   <span id="f000439">containing nearly four thousand francs in gold.</span>
   <span id="f000440">The drawers of a <em>bureau</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000441">which stood in one corner were open,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and had been,</span>
   <span id="f000443">apparently,</span>
   <span id="f000444">rifled,</span>
   <span id="f000445">although many articles still remained in them.</span>
   <span id="f000446">A small iron safe was discovered under the <em>bed</em></span>
   <span id="f000447">(not under the bedstead).</span>
   <span id="f000448">It was open,</span>
   <span id="f000449">with the key still in the door.</span>
   <span id="f000450">It had no contents beyond a few old letters,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and other papers of little consequence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">Of Madame L’Espanaye no traces were here seen;</span>
   <span id="f000453">but an unusual quantity of soot being observed in the fire-place,</span>
   <span id="f000454">a search was made in the chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and</span>
   <span id="f000456">(horrible to relate!)</span>
   <span id="f000457">the corpse of the daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000458">head downward,</span>
   <span id="f000459">was dragged therefrom;</span>
   <span id="f000460">it having been thus forced up the narrow aperture for a considerable distance.</span>
   <span id="f000461">The body was quite warm.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Upon examining it,</span>
   <span id="f000463">many excoriations were perceived,</span>
   <span id="f000464">no doubt occasioned by the violence with which it had been thrust up and disengaged.</span>
   <span id="f000465">Upon the face were many severe scratches,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and,</span>
   <span id="f000467">upon the throat,</span>
   <span id="f000468">dark bruises,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and deep indentations of finger nails,</span>
   <span id="f000470">as if the deceased had been throttled to death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">After a thorough investigation of every portion of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000472">without farther discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000473">the party made its way into a small paved yard in the rear of the building,</span>
   <span id="f000474">where lay the corpse of the old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000475">with her throat so entirely cut that,</span>
   <span id="f000476">upon an attempt to raise her,</span>
   <span id="f000477">the head fell off.</span>
   <span id="f000478">The body,</span>
   <span id="f000479">as well as the head,</span>
   <span id="f000480">was fearfully mutilated – the former so much so as scarcely to retain any semblance of humanity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">“To this horrible mystery there is not as yet,</span>
   <span id="f000482">we believe,</span>
   <span id="f000483">the slightest clew.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000484">The next day’s paper had these additional particulars.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000485">“<em>The Tragedy in the Rue Morgue.</em> Many individuals have been examined in relation to this most extraordinary and frightful affair.</span>
   <span id="f000486">[The word ’affaire’ has not yet,</span>
   <span id="f000487">in France,</span>
   <span id="f000488">that levity of import which it conveys with us,] ”but nothing whatever has transpired to throw light upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000489">We give below all the material testimony elicited.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490"><em>Pauline Dubourg</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000491">laundress,</span>
   <span id="f000492">deposes that she has known both the deceased for three years,</span>
   <span id="f000493">having washed for them during that period.</span>
   <span id="f000494">The old lady and her daughter seemed on good terms – very affectionate towards each other.</span>
   <span id="f000495">They were excellent pay.</span>
   <span id="f000496">Could not speak in regard to their mode or means of living.</span>
   <span id="f000497">Believed that Madame L.</span>
   <span id="f000498">told fortunes for a living.</span>
   <span id="f000499">Was reputed to have money put by.</span>
   <span id="f000500">Never met any persons in the house when she called for the clothes or took them home.</span>
   <span id="f000501">Was sure that they had no servant in employ.</span>
   <span id="f000502">There appeared to be no furniture in any part of the building except in the fourth story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503"><em>Pierre Moreau</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000504">tobacconist,</span>
   <span id="f000505">deposes that he has been in the habit of selling small quantities of tobacco and snuff to Madame L’Espanaye for nearly four years.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Was born in the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and has always resided there.</span>
   <span id="f000508">The deceased and her daughter had occupied the house in which the corpses were found,</span>
   <span id="f000509">for more than six years.</span>
   <span id="f000510">It was formerly occupied by a jeweller,</span>
   <span id="f000511">who under-let the upper rooms to various persons.</span>
   <span id="f000512">The house was the property of Madame L.</span>
   <span id="f000513">She became dissatisfied with the abuse of the premises by her tenant,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and moved into them herself,</span>
   <span id="f000515">refusing to let any portion.</span>
   <span id="f000516">The old lady was childish.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Witness had seen the daughter some five or six times during the six years.</span>
   <span id="f000518">The two lived an exceedingly retired life – were reputed to have money.</span>
   <span id="f000519">Had heard it said among the neighbors that Madame L.</span>
   <span id="f000520">told fortunes – did not believe it.</span>
   <span id="f000521">Had never seen any person enter the door except the old lady and her daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000522">a porter once or twice,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and a physician some eight or ten times.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">Many other persons,</span>
   <span id="f000525">neighbors,</span>
   <span id="f000526">gave evidence to the same effect.</span>
   <span id="f000527">No one was spoken of as frequenting the house.</span>
   <span id="f000528">It was not known whether there were any living connexions of Madame L.</span>
   <span id="f000529">and her daughter.</span>
   <span id="f000530">The shutters of the front windows were seldom opened.</span>
   <span id="f000531">Those in the rear were always closed,</span>
   <span id="f000532">with the exception of the large back room,</span>
   <span id="f000533">fourth story.</span>
   <span id="f000534">The house was a good house – not very old.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535"><em>Isidore Muset</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000536"><em>gendarme</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000537">deposes that he was called to the house about three o’clock in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and found some twenty or thirty persons at the gateway,</span>
   <span id="f000539">endeavoring to gain admittance.</span>
   <span id="f000540">Forced it open,</span>
   <span id="f000541">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000542">with a bayonet – not with a crowbar.</span>
   <span id="f000543">Had but little difficulty in getting it open,</span>
   <span id="f000544">on account of its being a double or folding gate,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and bolted neither at bottom not top.</span>
   <span id="f000546">The shrieks were continued until the gate was forced – and then suddenly ceased.</span>
   <span id="f000547">They seemed to be screams of some person</span>
   <span id="f000548">(or persons)</span>
   <span id="f000549">in great agony – were loud and drawn out,</span>
   <span id="f000550">not short and quick.</span>
   <span id="f000551">Witness led the way up stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Upon reaching the first landing,</span>
   <span id="f000553">heard two voices in loud and angry contention – the one a gruff voice,</span>
   <span id="f000554">the other much shriller – a very strange voice.</span>
   <span id="f000555">Could distinguish some words of the former,</span>
   <span id="f000556">which was that of a Frenchman.</span>
   <span id="f000557">Was positive that it was not a woman’s voice.</span>
   <span id="f000558">Could distinguish the words ’<em>sacré</em>’ and ’<em>diable.</em>’ The shrill voice was that of a foreigner.</span>
   <span id="f000559">Could not be sure whether it was the voice of a man or of a woman.</span>
   <span id="f000560">Could not make out what was said,</span>
   <span id="f000561">but believed the language to be Spanish.</span>
   <span id="f000562">The state of the room and of the bodies was described by this witness as we described them yesterday.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

