<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Section II</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002"><em>Henri Duval</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000003">a neighbor,</span>
   <span id="f000004">and by trade a silver-smith,</span>
   <span id="f000005">deposes that he was one of the party who first entered the house.</span>
   <span id="f000006">Corroborates the testimony of Musèt in general.</span>
   <span id="f000007">As soon as they forced an entrance,</span>
   <span id="f000008">they reclosed the door,</span>
   <span id="f000009">to keep out the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000010">which collected very fast,</span>
   <span id="f000011">notwithstanding the lateness of the hour.</span>
   <span id="f000012">The shrill voice,</span>
   <span id="f000013">this witness thinks,</span>
   <span id="f000014">was that of an Italian.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Was certain it was not French.</span>
   <span id="f000016">Could not be sure that it was a man’s voice.</span>
   <span id="f000017">It might have been a woman’s.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Was not acquainted with the Italian language.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Could not distinguish the words,</span>
   <span id="f000020">but was convinced by the intonation that the speaker was an Italian.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Knew Madame L.</span>
   <span id="f000022">and her daughter.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Had conversed with both frequently.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Was sure that the shrill voice was not that of either of the deceased.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">– <em>Odenheimer, </em></span>
   <span id="f000026"><em>restaurateur.</em> This witness volunteered his testimony.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Not speaking French,</span>
   <span id="f000028">was examined through an interpreter.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Is a native of Amsterdam.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Was passing the house at the time of the shrieks.</span>
   <span id="f000031">They lasted for several minutes – probably ten.</span>
   <span id="f000032">They were long and loud – very awful and distressing.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Was one of those who entered the building.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Corroborated the previous evidence in every respect but one.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Was sure that the shrill voice was that of a man – of a Frenchman.</span>
   <span id="f000036">Could not distinguish the words uttered.</span>
   <span id="f000037">They were loud and quick – unequal – spoken apparently in fear as well as in anger.</span>
   <span id="f000038">The voice was harsh – not so much shrill as harsh.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Could not call it a shrill voice.</span>
   <span id="f000040">The gruff voice said repeatedly ’<em>sacré</em>,’ ’<em>diable</em>,’ and once ’<em>mon Dieu.</em>’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041"><em>Jules Mignaud</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000042">banker,</span>
   <span id="f000043">of the firm of Mignaud et Fils,</span>
   <span id="f000044">Rue Deloraine.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Is the elder Mignaud.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Madame L’Espanaye had some property.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Had opened an account with his banking house in the spring of the year –</span>
   <span id="f000048">(eight years previously).</span>
   <span id="f000049">Made frequent deposits in small sums.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Had checked for nothing until the third day before her death,</span>
   <span id="f000051">when she took out in person the sum of 4000 francs.</span>
   <span id="f000052">This sum was paid in gold,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and a clerk went home with the money.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054"><em>Adolphe Le Bon</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000055">clerk to Mignaud et Fils,</span>
   <span id="f000056">deposes that on the day in question,</span>
   <span id="f000057">about noon,</span>
   <span id="f000058">he accompanied Madame L’Espanaye to her residence with the 4000 francs,</span>
   <span id="f000059">put up in two bags.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Upon the door being opened,</span>
   <span id="f000061">Mademoiselle L.</span>
   <span id="f000062">appeared and took from his hands one of the bags,</span>
   <span id="f000063">while the old lady relieved him of the other.</span>
   <span id="f000064">He then bowed and departed.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Did not see any person in the street at the time.</span>
   <span id="f000066">It is a bye-street – very lonely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067"><em>William Bird</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000068">tailor deposes that he was one of the party who entered the house.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Is an Englishman.</span>
   <span id="f000070">Has lived in Paris two years.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Was one of the first to ascend the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Heard the voices in contention.</span>
   <span id="f000073">The gruff voice was that of a Frenchman.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Could make out several words,</span>
   <span id="f000075">but cannot now remember all.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Heard distinctly ’<em>sacré</em>’ and ’<em>mon Dieu.</em>’ There was a sound at the moment as if of several persons struggling – a scraping and scuffling sound.</span>
   <span id="f000077">The shrill voice was very loud – louder than the gruff one.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Is sure that it was not the voice of an Englishman.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Appeared to be that of a German.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Might have been a woman’s voice.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Does not understand German.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">Four of the above-named witnesses,</span>
   <span id="f000083">being recalled,</span>
   <span id="f000084">deposed that the door of the chamber in which was found the body of Mademoiselle L.</span>
   <span id="f000085">was locked on the inside when the party reached it.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Every thing was perfectly silent – no groans or noises of any kind.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Upon forcing the door no person was seen.</span>
   <span id="f000088">The windows,</span>
   <span id="f000089">both of the back and front room,</span>
   <span id="f000090">were down and firmly fastened from within.</span>
   <span id="f000091">A door between the two rooms was closed,</span>
   <span id="f000092">but not locked.</span>
   <span id="f000093">The door leading from the front room into the passage was locked,</span>
   <span id="f000094">with the key on the inside.</span>
   <span id="f000095">A small room in the front of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000096">on the fourth story,</span>
   <span id="f000097">at the head of the passage was open,</span>
   <span id="f000098">the door being ajar.</span>
   <span id="f000099">This room was crowded with old beds,</span>
   <span id="f000100">boxes,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and so forth.</span>
   <span id="f000102">These were carefully removed and searched.</span>
   <span id="f000103">There was not an inch of any portion of the house which was not carefully searched.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Sweeps were sent up and down the chimneys.</span>
   <span id="f000105">The house was a four story one,</span>
   <span id="f000106">with garrets</span>
   <span id="f000107">(<em>mansardes.</em>)</span>
   <span id="f000108">A trap-door on the roof was nailed down very securely – did not appear to have been opened for years.</span>
   <span id="f000109">The time elapsing between the hearing of the voices in contention and the breaking open of the room door,</span>
   <span id="f000110">was variously stated by the witnesses.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Some made it as short as three minutes – some as long as five.</span>
   <span id="f000112">The door was opened with difficulty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113"><em>Alfonzo Garcio</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000114">undertaker,</span>
   <span id="f000115">deposes that he resides in the Rue Morgue.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Is a native of Spain.</span>
   <span id="f000117">Was one of the party who entered the house.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Did not proceed up stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Is nervous,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and was apprehensive of the consequences of agitation.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Heard the voices in contention.</span>
   <span id="f000122">The gruff voice was that of a Frenchman.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Could not distinguish what was said.</span>
   <span id="f000124">The shrill voice was that of an Englishman – is sure of this.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Does not understand the English language,</span>
   <span id="f000126">but judges by the intonation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127"><em>Alberto Montani</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000128">confectioner,</span>
   <span id="f000129">deposes that he was among the first to ascend the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Heard the voices in question.</span>
   <span id="f000131">The gruff voice was that of a Frenchman.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Distinguished several words.</span>
   <span id="f000133">The speaker appeared to be expostulating.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Could not make out the words of the shrill voice.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Spoke quick and unevenly.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Thinks it the voice of a Russian.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Corroborates the general testimony.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Is an Italian.</span>
   <span id="f000139">Never conversed with a native of Russia.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">Several witnesses,</span>
   <span id="f000141">recalled,</span>
   <span id="f000142">here testified that the chimneys of all the rooms on the fourth story were too narrow to admit the passage of a human being.</span>
   <span id="f000143">By ’sweeps’ were meant cylindrical sweeping brushes,</span>
   <span id="f000144">such as are employed by those who clean chimneys.</span>
   <span id="f000145">These brushes were passed up and down every flue in the house.</span>
   <span id="f000146">There is no back passage by which any one could have descended while the party proceeded up stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000147">The body of Mademoiselle L’Espanaye was so firmly wedged in the chimney that it could not be got down until four or five of the party united their strength.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148"><em>Paul Dumas</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000149">physician,</span>
   <span id="f000150">deposes that he was called to view the bodies about day-break.</span>
   <span id="f000151">They were both then lying on the sacking of the bedstead in the chamber where Mademoiselle L.</span>
   <span id="f000152">was found.</span>
   <span id="f000153">The corpse of the young lady was much bruised and excoriated.</span>
   <span id="f000154">The fact that it had been thrust up the chimney would sufficiently account for these appearances.</span>
   <span id="f000155">The throat was greatly chafed.</span>
   <span id="f000156">There were several deep scratches just below the chin,</span>
   <span id="f000157">together with a series of livid spots which were evidently the impression of fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000158">The face was fearfully discolored,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and the eye-balls protruded.</span>
   <span id="f000160">The tongue had been partially bitten through.</span>
   <span id="f000161">A large bruise was discovered upon the pit of the stomach,</span>
   <span id="f000162">produced,</span>
   <span id="f000163">apparently,</span>
   <span id="f000164">by the pressure of a knee.</span>
   <span id="f000165">In the opinion of M.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Dumas,</span>
   <span id="f000167">Mademoiselle L’Espanaye had been throttled to death by some person or persons unknown.</span>
   <span id="f000168">The corpse of the mother was horribly mutilated.</span>
   <span id="f000169">All the bones of the right leg and arm were more or less shattered.</span>
   <span id="f000170">The left <em>tibia</em> much splintered,</span>
   <span id="f000171">as well as all the ribs of the left side.</span>
   <span id="f000172">Whole body dreadfully bruised and discolored.</span>
   <span id="f000173">It was not possible to say how the injuries had been inflicted.</span>
   <span id="f000174">A heavy club of wood,</span>
   <span id="f000175">or a broad bar of iron – a chair – any large,</span>
   <span id="f000176">heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and obtuse weapon would have produced such results,</span>
   <span id="f000178">if wielded by the hands of a very powerful man.</span>
   <span id="f000179">No woman could have inflicted the blows with any weapon.</span>
   <span id="f000180">The head of the deceased,</span>
   <span id="f000181">when seen by witness,</span>
   <span id="f000182">was entirely separated from the body,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and was also greatly shattered.</span>
   <span id="f000184">The throat had evidently been cut with some very sharp instrument – probably with a razor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185"><em>Alexandre Etienne</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000186">surgeon,</span>
   <span id="f000187">was called with M.</span>
   <span id="f000188">Dumas to view the bodies.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Corroborated the testimony,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and the opinions of M.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Dumas.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“Nothing farther of importance was elicited,</span>
   <span id="f000193">although several other persons were examined.</span>
   <span id="f000194">A murder so mysterious,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and so perplexing in all its particulars,</span>
   <span id="f000196">was never before committed in Paris – if indeed a murder has been committed at all.</span>
   <span id="f000197">The police are entirely at fault – an unusual occurrence in affairs of this nature.</span>
   <span id="f000198">There is not,</span>
   <span id="f000199">however,</span>
   <span id="f000200">the shadow of a clew apparent.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000201">The evening edition of the paper stated that the greatest excitement still continued in the Quartier St.&#160;Roch – that the premises in question had been carefully re-searched,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and fresh examinations of witnesses instituted,</span>
   <span id="f000203">but all to no purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000204">A postscript,</span>
   <span id="f000205">however,</span>
   <span id="f000206">mentioned that Adolphe Le Bon had been arrested and imprisoned – although nothing appeared to criminate him,</span>
   <span id="f000207">beyond the facts already detailed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">Dupin seemed singularly interested in the progress of this affair – at least so I judged from his manner,</span>
   <span id="f000209">for he made no comments.</span>
   <span id="f000210">It was only after the announcement that Le Bon had been imprisoned,</span>
   <span id="f000211">that he asked me my opinion respecting the murders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">I could merely agree with all Paris in considering them an insoluble mystery.</span>
   <span id="f000213">I saw no means by which it would be possible to trace the murderer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“We must not judge of the means,” said Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000215">"by this shell of an examination.</span>
   <span id="f000216">The Parisian police,</span>
   <span id="f000217">so much extolled for <em>acumen</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000218">are cunning,</span>
   <span id="f000219">but no more.</span>
   <span id="f000220">There is no method in their proceedings,</span>
   <span id="f000221">beyond the method of the moment.</span>
   <span id="f000222">They make a vast parade of measures;</span>
   <span id="f000223">but,</span>
   <span id="f000224">not unfrequently,</span>
   <span id="f000225">these are so ill adapted to the objects proposed,</span>
   <span id="f000226">as to put us in mind of Monsieur Jourdain’s calling for his <em>robe-de-chambre – pour mieux entendre la musique.</em> The results attained by them are not unfrequently surprising,</span>
   <span id="f000227">but,</span>
   <span id="f000228">for the most part,</span>
   <span id="f000229">are brought about by simple diligence and activity.</span>
   <span id="f000230">When these qualities are unavailing,</span>
   <span id="f000231">their schemes fail.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Vidocq,</span>
   <span id="f000233">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000234">was a good guesser and a persevering man.</span>
   <span id="f000235">But,</span>
   <span id="f000236">without educated thought,</span>
   <span id="f000237">he erred continually by the very intensity of his investigations.</span>
   <span id="f000238">He impaired his vision by holding the object too close.</span>
   <span id="f000239">He might see,</span>
   <span id="f000240">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000241">one or two points with unusual clearness,</span>
   <span id="f000242">but in so doing he,</span>
   <span id="f000243">necessarily,</span>
   <span id="f000244">lost sight of the matter as a whole.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Thus there is such a thing as being too profound.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Truth is not always in a well.</span>
   <span id="f000247">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000248">as regards the more important knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f000249">I do believe that she is invariably superficial.</span>
   <span id="f000250">The depth lies in the valleys where we seek her,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and not upon the mountain-tops where she is found.</span>
   <span id="f000252">The modes and sources of this kind of error are well typified in the contemplation of the heavenly bodies.</span>
   <span id="f000253">To look at a star by glances – to view it in a side-long way,</span>
   <span id="f000254">by turning toward it the exterior portions of the <em>retina</em></span>
   <span id="f000255">(more susceptible of feeble impressions of light than the interior),</span>
   <span id="f000256">is to behold the star distinctly – is to have the best appreciation of its lustre – a lustre which grows dim just in proportion as we turn our vision <em>fully</em> upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000257">A greater number of rays actually fall upon the eye in the latter case,</span>
   <span id="f000258">but,</span>
   <span id="f000259">in the former,</span>
   <span id="f000260">there is the more refined capacity for comprehension.</span>
   <span id="f000261">By undue profundity we perplex and enfeeble thought;</span>
   <span id="f000262">and it is possible to make even Venus herself vanish from the firmanent by a scrutiny too sustained,</span>
   <span id="f000263">too concentrated,</span>
   <span id="f000264">or too direct.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“As for these murders,</span>
   <span id="f000266">let us enter into some examinations for ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000267">before we make up an opinion respecting them.</span>
   <span id="f000268">An inquiry will afford us amusement,” [I thought this an odd term,</span>
   <span id="f000269">so applied,</span>
   <span id="f000270">but said nothing] “and,</span>
   <span id="f000271">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000272">Le Bon once rendered me a service for which I am not ungrateful.</span>
   <span id="f000273">We will go and see the premises with our own eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000274">I know G – ,</span>
   <span id="f000275">the Prefect of Police,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and shall have no difficulty in obtaining the necessary permission.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">The permission was obtained,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and we proceeded at once to the Rue Morgue.</span>
   <span id="f000279">This is one of those miserable thoroughfares which intervene between the Rue Richelieu and the Rue St.&#160;Roch.</span>
   <span id="f000280">It was late in the afternoon when we reached it;</span>
   <span id="f000281">as this quarter is at a great distance from that in which we resided.</span>
   <span id="f000282">The house was readily found;</span>
   <span id="f000283">for there were still many persons gazing up at the closed shutters,</span>
   <span id="f000284">with an objectless curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000285">from the opposite side of the way.</span>
   <span id="f000286">It was an ordinary Parisian house,</span>
   <span id="f000287">with a gateway,</span>
   <span id="f000288">on one side of which was a glazed watch-box,</span>
   <span id="f000289">with a sliding panel in the window,</span>
   <span id="f000290">indicating a <em>loge de concierge.</em> Before going in we walked up the street,</span>
   <span id="f000291">turned down an alley,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000293">again turning,</span>
   <span id="f000294">passed in the rear of the building – Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000295">meanwhile examining the whole neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000296">as well as the house,</span>
   <span id="f000297">with a minuteness of attention for which I could see no possible object.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">Retracing our steps,</span>
   <span id="f000299">we came again to the front of the dwelling,</span>
   <span id="f000300">rang,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and,</span>
   <span id="f000302">having shown our credentials,</span>
   <span id="f000303">were admitted by the agents in charge.</span>
   <span id="f000304">We went up stairs – into the chamber where the body of Mademoiselle L’Espanaye had been found,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and where both the deceased still lay.</span>
   <span id="f000306">The disorders of the room had,</span>
   <span id="f000307">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000308">been suffered to exist.</span>
   <span id="f000309">I saw nothing beyond what had been stated in the “Gazette des Tribunaux.” Dupin scrutinized every thing – not excepting the bodies of the victims.</span>
   <span id="f000310">We then went into the other rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and into the yard;</span>
   <span id="f000312">a <em>gendarme</em> accompanying us throughout.</span>
   <span id="f000313">The examination occupied us until dark,</span>
   <span id="f000314">when we took our departure.</span>
   <span id="f000315">On our way home my companion stepped in for a moment at the office of one of the daily papers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">I have said that the whims of my friend were manifold,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and that <em>Je les ménagais</em>:</span>
   <span id="f000318">– for this phrase there is no English equivalent.</span>
   <span id="f000319">It was his humor,</span>
   <span id="f000320">now,</span>
   <span id="f000321">to decline all conversation on the subject of the murder,</span>
   <span id="f000322">until about noon the next day.</span>
   <span id="f000323">He then asked me,</span>
   <span id="f000324">suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000325">if I had observed any thing <em>peculiar</em> at the scene of the atrocity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">There was something in his manner of emphasizing the word “peculiar,” which caused me to shudder,</span>
   <span id="f000327">without knowing why.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000329">nothing <em>peculiar</em>,” I said;</span>
   <span id="f000330">“nothing more,</span>
   <span id="f000331">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000332">than we both saw stated in the paper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“The ’Gazette,’” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000334">“has not entered,</span>
   <span id="f000335">I fear,</span>
   <span id="f000336">into the unusual horror of the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000337">But dismiss the idle opinions of this print.</span>
   <span id="f000338">It appears to me that this mystery is considered insoluble,</span>
   <span id="f000339">for the very reason which should cause it to be regarded as easy of solution – I mean for the <em>outré</em> character of its features.</span>
   <span id="f000340">The police are confounded by the seeming absence of motive – not for the murder itself – but for the atrocity of the murder.</span>
   <span id="f000341">They are puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000342">too,</span>
   <span id="f000343">by the seeming impossibility of reconciling the voices heard in contention,</span>
   <span id="f000344">with the facts that no one was discovered up stairs but the assassinated Mademoiselle L’Espanaye,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and that there were no means of egress without the notice of the party ascending.</span>
   <span id="f000346">The wild disorder of the room;</span>
   <span id="f000347">the corpse thrust,</span>
   <span id="f000348">with the head downward,</span>
   <span id="f000349">up the chimney;</span>
   <span id="f000350">the frightful mutilation of the body of the old lady;</span>
   <span id="f000351">these considerations,</span>
   <span id="f000352">with those just mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and others which I need not mention,</span>
   <span id="f000354">have sufficed to paralyze the powers,</span>
   <span id="f000355">by putting completely at fault the boasted <em>acumen</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000356">of the government agents.</span>
   <span id="f000357">They have fallen into the gross but common error of confounding the unusual with the abstruse.</span>
   <span id="f000358">But it is by these deviations from the plane of the ordinary,</span>
   <span id="f000359">that reason feels its way,</span>
   <span id="f000360">if at all,</span>
   <span id="f000361">in its search for the true.</span>
   <span id="f000362">In investigations such as we are now pursuing,</span>
   <span id="f000363">it should not be so much asked ’what has occurred,’ as ’what has occurred that has never occurred before.’ In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000364">the facility with which I shall arrive,</span>
   <span id="f000365">or have arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000366">at the solution of this mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000367">is in the direct ratio of its apparent insolubility in the eyes of the police.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">I stared at the speaker in mute astonishment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">“I am now awaiting,” continued he,</span>
   <span id="f000370">looking toward the door of our apartment – “I am now awaiting a person who,</span>
   <span id="f000371">although perhaps not the perpetrator of these butcheries,</span>
   <span id="f000372">must have been in some measure implicated in their perpetration.</span>
   <span id="f000373">Of the worst portion of the crimes committed,</span>
   <span id="f000374">it is probable that he is innocent.</span>
   <span id="f000375">I hope that I am right in this supposition;</span>
   <span id="f000376">for upon it I build my expectation of reading the entire riddle.</span>
   <span id="f000377">I look for the man here – in this room – every moment.</span>
   <span id="f000378">It is true that he may not arrive;</span>
   <span id="f000379">but the probability is that he will.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Should he come,</span>
   <span id="f000381">it will be necessary to detain him.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Here are pistols;</span>
   <span id="f000383">and we both know how to use them when occasion demands their use.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">I took the pistols,</span>
   <span id="f000385">scarcely knowing what I did,</span>
   <span id="f000386">or believing what I heard,</span>
   <span id="f000387">while Dupin went on,</span>
   <span id="f000388">very much as if in a soliloquy.</span>
   <span id="f000389">I have already spoken of his abstract manner at such times.</span>
   <span id="f000390">His discourse was addressed to myself;</span>
   <span id="f000391">but his voice,</span>
   <span id="f000392">although by no means loud,</span>
   <span id="f000393">had that intonation which is commonly employed in speaking to some one at a great distance.</span>
   <span id="f000394">His eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000395">vacant in expression,</span>
   <span id="f000396">regarded only the wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“That the voices heard in contention,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000398">“by the party upon the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000399">were not the voices of the women themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000400">was fully proved by the evidence.</span>
   <span id="f000401">This relieves us of all doubt upon the question whether the old lady could have first destroyed the daughter and afterward have committed suicide.</span>
   <span id="f000402">I speak of this point chiefly for the sake of method;</span>
   <span id="f000403">for the strength of Madame L’Espanaye would have been utterly unequal to the task of thrusting her daughter’s corpse up the chimney as it was found;</span>
   <span id="f000404">and the nature of the wounds upon her own person entirely preclude the idea of self-destruction.</span>
   <span id="f000405">Murder,</span>
   <span id="f000406">then,</span>
   <span id="f000407">has been committed by some third party;</span>
   <span id="f000408">and the voices of this third party were those heard in contention.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Let me now advert – not to the whole testimony respecting these voices – but to what was <em>peculiar</em> in that testimony.</span>
   <span id="f000410">Did you observe any thing peculiar about it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">I remarked that,</span>
   <span id="f000412">while all the witnesses agreed in supposing the gruff voice to be that of a Frenchman,</span>
   <span id="f000413">there was much disagreement in regard to the shrill,</span>
   <span id="f000414">or,</span>
   <span id="f000415">as one individual termed it,</span>
   <span id="f000416">the harsh voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">“That was the evidence itself,” said Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000418">"but it was not the peculiarity of the evidence.</span>
   <span id="f000419">You have observed nothing distinctive.</span>
   <span id="f000420">Yet there <em>was</em> something to be observed.</span>
   <span id="f000421">The witnesses,</span>
   <span id="f000422">as you remark,</span>
   <span id="f000423">agreed about the gruff voice;</span>
   <span id="f000424">they were here unanimous.</span>
   <span id="f000425">But in regard to the shrill voice,</span>
   <span id="f000426">the peculiarity is – not that they disagreed – but that,</span>
   <span id="f000427">while an Italian,</span>
   <span id="f000428">an Englishman,</span>
   <span id="f000429">a Spaniard,</span>
   <span id="f000430">a Hollander,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and a Frenchman attempted to describe it,</span>
   <span id="f000432">each one spoke of it as that <em>of a foreigner</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000433">Each is sure that it was not the voice of one of his own countrymen.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Each likens it – not to the voice of an individual of any nation with whose language he is conversant – but the converse.</span>
   <span id="f000435">The Frenchman supposes it the voice of a Spaniard,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and ’might have distinguished some words <em>had he been acquainted with the Spanish.</em>’ The Dutchman maintains it to have been that of a Frenchman;</span>
   <span id="f000437">but we find it stated that ’<em>not understanding French this witness was examined through an interpreter.</em>’ The Englishman thinks it the voice of a German,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and ’<em>does not understand German.</em>’ The Spaniard ’is sure’ that it was that of an Englishman,</span>
   <span id="f000439">but ’judges by the intonation’ altogether,</span>
   <span id="f000440">’<em>as he has no knowledge of the English.</em>’ The Italian believes it the voice of a Russian,</span>
   <span id="f000441">but ’<em>has never conversed with a native of Russia.</em>’ A second Frenchman differs,</span>
   <span id="f000442">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000443">with the first,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and is positive that the voice was that of an Italian;</span>
   <span id="f000445">but,</span>
   <span id="f000446"><em>not being cognizant of that tongue</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000447">is,</span>
   <span id="f000448">like the Spaniard,</span>
   <span id="f000449">’convinced by the intonation.’ Now,</span>
   <span id="f000450">how strangely unusual must that voice have really been,</span>
   <span id="f000451">about which such testimony as this <em>could</em> have been elicited!</span>
   <span id="f000452">– in whose <em>tones</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000453">even,</span>
   <span id="f000454">denizens of the five great divisions of Europe could recognise nothing familiar!</span>
   <span id="f000455">You will say that it might have been the voice of an Asiatic – of an African.</span>
   <span id="f000456">Neither Asiatics nor Africans abound in Paris;</span>
   <span id="f000457">but,</span>
   <span id="f000458">without denying the inference,</span>
   <span id="f000459">I will now merely call your attention to three points.</span>
   <span id="f000460">The voice is termed by one witness ’harsh rather than shrill.’ It is represented by two others to have been ’quick and <em>unequal.</em>’ No words – no sounds resembling words – were by any witness mentioned as distinguishable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“I know not,” continued Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000462">"what impression I may have made,</span>
   <span id="f000463">so far,</span>
   <span id="f000464">upon your own understanding;</span>
   <span id="f000465">but I do not hesitate to say that legitimate deductions even from this portion of the testimony – the portion respecting the gruff and shrill voices – are in themselves sufficient to engender a suspicion which should give direction to all farther progress in the investigation of the mystery.</span>
   <span id="f000466">I said ’legitimate deductions;’ but my meaning is not thus fully expressed.</span>
   <span id="f000467">I designed to imply that the deductions are the <em>sole</em> proper ones,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and that the suspicion arises <em>inevitably</em> from them as the single result.</span>
   <span id="f000469">What the suspicion is,</span>
   <span id="f000470">however,</span>
   <span id="f000471">I will not say just yet.</span>
   <span id="f000472">I merely wish you to bear in mind that,</span>
   <span id="f000473">with myself,</span>
   <span id="f000474">it was sufficiently forcible to give a definite form – a certain tendency – to my inquiries in the chamber.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">Let us now transport ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000476">in fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000477">to this chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000478">What shall we first seek here?</span>
   <span id="f000479">The means of egress employed by the murderers.</span>
   <span id="f000480">It is not too much to say that neither of us believe in præternatural events.</span>
   <span id="f000481">Madame and Mademoiselle L’Espanaye were not destroyed by spirits.</span>
   <span id="f000482">The doers of the deed were material,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and escaped materially.</span>
   <span id="f000484">Then how?</span>
   <span id="f000485">Fortunately,</span>
   <span id="f000486">there is but one mode of reasoning upon the point,</span>
   <span id="f000487">and that mode <em>must</em> lead us to a definite decision.</span>
   <span id="f000488">– Let us examine,</span>
   <span id="f000489">each by each,</span>
   <span id="f000490">the possible means of egress.</span>
   <span id="f000491">It is clear that the assassins were in the room where Mademoiselle L’Espanaye was found,</span>
   <span id="f000492">or at least in the room adjoining,</span>
   <span id="f000493">when the party ascended the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000494">It is then only from these two apartments that we have to seek issues.</span>
   <span id="f000495">The police have laid bare the floors,</span>
   <span id="f000496">the ceilings,</span>
   <span id="f000497">and the masonry of the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000498">in every direction.</span>
   <span id="f000499">No <em>secret</em> issues could have escaped their vigilance.</span>
   <span id="f000500">But,</span>
   <span id="f000501">not trusting to <em>their</em> eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000502">I examined with my own.</span>
   <span id="f000503">There were,</span>
   <span id="f000504">then,</span>
   <span id="f000505">no secret issues.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Both doors leading from the rooms into the passage were securely locked,</span>
   <span id="f000507">with the keys inside.</span>
   <span id="f000508">Let us turn to the chimneys.</span>
   <span id="f000509">These,</span>
   <span id="f000510">although of ordinary width for some eight or ten feet above the hearths,</span>
   <span id="f000511">will not admit,</span>
   <span id="f000512">throughout their extent,</span>
   <span id="f000513">the body of a large cat.</span>
   <span id="f000514">The impossibility of egress,</span>
   <span id="f000515">by means already stated,</span>
   <span id="f000516">being thus absolute,</span>
   <span id="f000517">we are reduced to the windows.</span>
   <span id="f000518">Through those of the front room no one could have escaped without notice from the crowd in the street.</span>
   <span id="f000519">The murderers <em>must</em> have passed,</span>
   <span id="f000520">then,</span>
   <span id="f000521">through those of the back room.</span>
   <span id="f000522">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000523">brought to this conclusion in so unequivocal a manner as we are,</span>
   <span id="f000524">it is not our part,</span>
   <span id="f000525">as reasoners,</span>
   <span id="f000526">to reject it on account of apparent impossibilities.</span>
   <span id="f000527">It is only left for us to prove that these apparent ’impossibilities’ are,</span>
   <span id="f000528">in reality,</span>
   <span id="f000529">not such.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">There are two windows in the chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000531">One of them is unobstructed by furniture,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and is wholly visible.</span>
   <span id="f000533">The lower portion of the other is hidden from view by the head of the unwieldy bedstead which is thrust close up against it.</span>
   <span id="f000534">The former was found securely fastened from within.</span>
   <span id="f000535">It resisted the utmost force of those who endeavored to raise it.</span>
   <span id="f000536">A large gimlet-hole had been pierced in its frame to the left,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and a very stout nail was found fitted therein,</span>
   <span id="f000538">nearly to the head.</span>
   <span id="f000539">Upon examining the other window,</span>
   <span id="f000540">a similar nail was seen similarly fitted in it;</span>
   <span id="f000541">and a vigorous attempt to raise this sash,</span>
   <span id="f000542">failed also.</span>
   <span id="f000543">The police were now entirely satisfied that egress had not been in these directions.</span>
   <span id="f000544">And,</span>
   <span id="f000545"><em>therefore</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000546">it was thought a matter of supererogation to withdraw the nails and open the windows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">My own examination was somewhat more particular,</span>
   <span id="f000548">and was so for the reason I have just given – because here it was,</span>
   <span id="f000549">I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000550">that all apparent impossibilities <em>must</em> be proved to be not such in reality.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">I proceeded to think thus – <em>à posteriori</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000552">The murderers did escape from one of these windows.</span>
   <span id="f000553">This being so,</span>
   <span id="f000554">they could not have refastened the sashes from the inside,</span>
   <span id="f000555">as they were found fastened;</span>
   <span id="f000556">– the consideration which put a stop,</span>
   <span id="f000557">through its obviousness,</span>
   <span id="f000558">to the scrutiny of the police in this quarter.</span>
   <span id="f000559">Yet the sashes <em>were</em> fastened.</span>
   <span id="f000560">They <em>must</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000561">then,</span>
   <span id="f000562">have the power of fastening themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000563">There was no escape from this conclusion.</span>
   <span id="f000564">I stepped to the unobstructed casement,</span>
   <span id="f000565">withdrew the nail with some difficulty and attempted to raise the sash.</span>
   <span id="f000566">It resisted all my efforts,</span>
   <span id="f000567">as I had anticipated.</span>
   <span id="f000568">A concealed spring must,</span>
   <span id="f000569">I now know,</span>
   <span id="f000570">exist;</span>
   <span id="f000571">and this corroboration of my idea convinced me that my premises at least,</span>
   <span id="f000572">were correct,</span>
   <span id="f000573">however mysterious still appeared the circumstances attending the nails.</span>
   <span id="f000574">A careful search soon brought to light the hidden spring.</span>
   <span id="f000575">I pressed it,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and,</span>
   <span id="f000577">satisfied with the discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000578">forbore to upraise the sash.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">I now replaced the nail and regarded it attentively.</span>
   <span id="f000580">A person passing out through this window might have reclosed it,</span>
   <span id="f000581">and the spring would have caught – but the nail could not have been replaced.</span>
   <span id="f000582">The conclusion was plain,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and again narrowed in the field of my investigations.</span>
   <span id="f000584">The assassins <em>must</em> have escaped through the other window.</span>
   <span id="f000585">Supposing,</span>
   <span id="f000586">then,</span>
   <span id="f000587">the springs upon each sash to be the same,</span>
   <span id="f000588">as was probable,</span>
   <span id="f000589">there <em>must</em> be found a difference between the nails,</span>
   <span id="f000590">or at least between the modes of their fixture.</span>
   <span id="f000591">Getting upon the sacking of the bedstead,</span>
   <span id="f000592">I looked over the head-board minutely at the second casement.</span>
   <span id="f000593">Passing my hand down behind the board,</span>
   <span id="f000594">I readily discovered and pressed the spring,</span>
   <span id="f000595">which was,</span>
   <span id="f000596">as I had supposed,</span>
   <span id="f000597">identical in character with its neighbor.</span>
   <span id="f000598">I now looked at the nail.</span>
   <span id="f000599">It was as stout as the other,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and apparently fitted in the same manner – driven in nearly up to the head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000601">You will say that I was puzzled;</span>
   <span id="f000602">but,</span>
   <span id="f000603">if you think so,</span>
   <span id="f000604">you must have misunderstood the nature of the inductions.</span>
   <span id="f000605">To use a sporting phrase,</span>
   <span id="f000606">I had not been once ’at fault.’ The scent had never for an instant been lost.</span>
   <span id="f000607">There was no flaw in any link of the chain.</span>
   <span id="f000608">I had traced the secret to its ultimate result,</span>
   <span id="f000609">– and that result was <em>the nail.</em> It had,</span>
   <span id="f000610">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000611">in every respect,</span>
   <span id="f000612">the appearance of its fellow in the other window;</span>
   <span id="f000613">but this fact was an absolute nullity</span>
   <span id="f000614">(conclusive us it might seem to be)</span>
   <span id="f000615">when compared with the consideration that here,</span>
   <span id="f000616">at this point,</span>
   <span id="f000617">terminated the clew.</span>
   <span id="f000618">’There <em>must</em> be something wrong,’ I said,</span>
   <span id="f000619">’about the nail.’ I touched it;</span>
   <span id="f000620">and the head,</span>
   <span id="f000621">with about a quarter of an inch of the shank,</span>
   <span id="f000622">came off in my fingers.</span>
   <span id="f000623">The rest of the shank was in the gimlet-hole where it had been broken off.</span>
   <span id="f000624">The fracture was an old one</span>
   <span id="f000625">(for its edges were incrusted with rust),</span>
   <span id="f000626">and had apparently been accomplished by the blow of a hammer,</span>
   <span id="f000627">which had partially imbedded,</span>
   <span id="f000628">in the top of the bottom sash,</span>
   <span id="f000629">the head portion of the nail.</span>
   <span id="f000630">I now carefully replaced this head portion in the indentation whence I had taken it,</span>
   <span id="f000631">and the resemblance to a perfect nail was complete – the fissure was invisible.</span>
   <span id="f000632">Pressing the spring,</span>
   <span id="f000633">I gently raised the sash for a few inches;</span>
   <span id="f000634">the head went up with it,</span>
   <span id="f000635">remaining firm in its bed.</span>
   <span id="f000636">I closed the window,</span>
   <span id="f000637">and the semblance of the whole nail was again perfect.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

