<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Section III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">The riddle,</span>
   <span id="f000003">so far,</span>
   <span id="f000004">was now unriddled.</span>
   <span id="f000005">The assassin had escaped through the window which looked upon the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000006">Dropping of its own accord upon his exit</span>
   <span id="f000007">(or perhaps purposely closed),</span>
   <span id="f000008">it had become fastened by the spring;</span>
   <span id="f000009">and it was the retention of this spring which had been mistaken by the police for that of the nail,</span>
   <span id="f000010">– farther inquiry being thus considered unnecessary.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">The next question is that of the mode of descent.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Upon this point I had been satisfied in my walk with you around the building.</span>
   <span id="f000013">About five feet and a half from the casement in question there runs a lightning-rod.</span>
   <span id="f000014">From this rod it would have been impossible for any one to reach the window itself,</span>
   <span id="f000015">to say nothing of entering it.</span>
   <span id="f000016">I observed,</span>
   <span id="f000017">however,</span>
   <span id="f000018">that the shutters of the fourth story were of the peculiar kind called by Parisian carpenters <em>ferrades</em> – a kind rarely employed at the present day,</span>
   <span id="f000019">but frequently seen upon very old mansions at Lyons and Bordeaux.</span>
   <span id="f000020">They are in the form of an ordinary door,</span>
   <span id="f000021">(a single,</span>
   <span id="f000022">not a folding door)</span>
   <span id="f000023">except that the lower half is latticed or worked in open trellis – thus affording an excellent hold for the hands.</span>
   <span id="f000024">In the present instance these shutters are fully three feet and a half broad.</span>
   <span id="f000025">When we saw them from the rear of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000026">they were both about half open – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000027">they stood off at right angles from the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000028">It is probable that the police,</span>
   <span id="f000029">as well as myself,</span>
   <span id="f000030">examined the back of the tenement;</span>
   <span id="f000031">but,</span>
   <span id="f000032">if so,</span>
   <span id="f000033">in looking at these <em>ferrades</em> in the line of their breadth</span>
   <span id="f000034">(as they must have done),</span>
   <span id="f000035">they did not perceive this great breadth itself,</span>
   <span id="f000036">or,</span>
   <span id="f000037">at all events,</span>
   <span id="f000038">failed to take it into due consideration.</span>
   <span id="f000039">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000040">having once satisfied themselves that no egress could have been made in this quarter,</span>
   <span id="f000041">they would naturally bestow here a very cursory examination.</span>
   <span id="f000042">It was clear to me,</span>
   <span id="f000043">however,</span>
   <span id="f000044">that the shutter belonging to the window at the head of the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000045">would,</span>
   <span id="f000046">if swung fully back to the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000047">reach to within two feet of the lightning-rod.</span>
   <span id="f000048">It was also evident that,</span>
   <span id="f000049">by exertion of a very unusual degree of activity and courage,</span>
   <span id="f000050">an entrance into the window,</span>
   <span id="f000051">from the rod,</span>
   <span id="f000052">might have been thus effected.</span>
   <span id="f000053">– By reaching to the distance of two feet and a half</span>
   <span id="f000054">(we now suppose the shutter open to its whole extent)</span>
   <span id="f000055">a robber might have taken a firm grasp upon the trellis-work.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Letting go,</span>
   <span id="f000057">then,</span>
   <span id="f000058">his hold upon the rod,</span>
   <span id="f000059">placing his feet securely against the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and springing boldly from it,</span>
   <span id="f000061">he might have swung the shutter so as to close it,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and,</span>
   <span id="f000063">if we imagine the window open at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000064">might even have swung himself into the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">I wish you to bear especially in mind that I have spoken of a <em>very</em> unusual degree of activity as requisite to success in so hazardous and so difficult a feat.</span>
   <span id="f000066">It is my design to show you,</span>
   <span id="f000067">first,</span>
   <span id="f000068">that the thing might possibly have been accomplished:</span>
   <span id="f000069">– but,</span>
   <span id="f000070">secondly and <em>chiefly</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000071">I wish to impress upon your understanding the <em>very extraordinary</em> – the almost præternatural character of that agility which could have accomplished it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">“You will say,</span>
   <span id="f000073">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000074">using the language of the law,</span>
   <span id="f000075">that ’to make out my case,’ I should rather undervalue,</span>
   <span id="f000076">than insist upon a full estimation of the activity required in this matter.</span>
   <span id="f000077">This may be the practice in law,</span>
   <span id="f000078">but it is not the usage of reason.</span>
   <span id="f000079">My ultimate object is only the truth.</span>
   <span id="f000080">My immediate purpose is to lead you to place in juxtaposition,</span>
   <span id="f000081">that <em>very unusual</em> activity of which I have just spoken with that <em>very peculiar</em> shrill</span>
   <span id="f000082">(or harsh)</span>
   <span id="f000083">and <em>unequal</em> voice,</span>
   <span id="f000084">about whose nationality no two persons could be found to agree,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and in whose utterance no syllabification could be detected.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">At these words a vague and half-formed conception of the meaning of Dupin flitted over my mind.</span>
   <span id="f000087">I seemed to be upon the verge of comprehension without power to comprehend – men,</span>
   <span id="f000088">at times,</span>
   <span id="f000089">find themselves upon the brink of remembrance without being able,</span>
   <span id="f000090">in the end,</span>
   <span id="f000091">to remember.</span>
   <span id="f000092">My friend went on with his discourse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“You will see,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000094">"that I have shifted the question from the mode of egress to that of ingress.</span>
   <span id="f000095">It was my design to convey the idea that both were effected in the same manner,</span>
   <span id="f000096">at the same point.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Let us now revert to the interior of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Let us survey the appearances here.</span>
   <span id="f000099">The drawers of the bureau,</span>
   <span id="f000100">it is said,</span>
   <span id="f000101">had been rifled,</span>
   <span id="f000102">although many articles of apparel still remained within them.</span>
   <span id="f000103">The conclusion here is absurd.</span>
   <span id="f000104">It is a mere guess – a very silly one – and no more.</span>
   <span id="f000105">How are we to know that the articles found in the drawers were not all these drawers had originally contained?</span>
   <span id="f000106">Madame L’Espanaye and her daughter lived an exceedingly retired life – saw no company – seldom went out – had little use for numerous changes of habiliment.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Those found were at least of as good quality as any likely to be possessed by these ladies.</span>
   <span id="f000108">If a thief had taken any,</span>
   <span id="f000109">why did he not take the best – why did he not take all?</span>
   <span id="f000110">In a word,</span>
   <span id="f000111">why did he abandon four thousand francs in gold to encumber himself with a bundle of linen?</span>
   <span id="f000112">The gold <em>was</em>abandoned.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Nearly the whole sum mentioned by Monsieur Mignaud,</span>
   <span id="f000114">the banker,</span>
   <span id="f000115">was discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000116">in bags,</span>
   <span id="f000117">upon the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000118">I wish you,</span>
   <span id="f000119">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000120">to discard from your thoughts the blundering idea of <em>motive</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000121">engendered in the brains of the police by that portion of the evidence which speaks of money delivered at the door of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Coincidences ten times as remarkable as this</span>
   <span id="f000123">(the delivery of the money,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and murder committed within three days upon the party receiving it),</span>
   <span id="f000125">happen to all of us every hour of our lives,</span>
   <span id="f000126">without attracting even momentary notice.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Coincidences,</span>
   <span id="f000128">in general,</span>
   <span id="f000129">are great stumbling-blocks in the way of that class of thinkers who have been educated to know nothing of the theory of probabilities – that theory to which the most glorious objects of human research are indebted for the most glorious of illustration.</span>
   <span id="f000130">In the present instance,</span>
   <span id="f000131">had the gold been gone,</span>
   <span id="f000132">the fact of its delivery three days before would have formed something more than a coincidence.</span>
   <span id="f000133">It would have been corroborative of this idea of motive.</span>
   <span id="f000134">But,</span>
   <span id="f000135">under the real circumstances of the case,</span>
   <span id="f000136">if we are to suppose gold the motive of this outrage,</span>
   <span id="f000137">we must also imagine the perpetrator so vacillating an idiot as to have abandoned his gold and his motive together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">Keeping now steadily in mind the points to which I have drawn your attention – that peculiar voice,</span>
   <span id="f000139">that unusual agility,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and that startling absence of motive in a murder so singularly atrocious as this – let us glance at the butchery itself.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Here is a woman strangled to death by manual strength,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and thrust up a chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000143">head downward.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Ordinary assassins employ no such modes of murder as this.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Least of all,</span>
   <span id="f000146">do they thus dispose of the murdered.</span>
   <span id="f000147">In the manner of thrusting the corpse up the chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000148">you will admit that there was something <em>excessively outré</em> – something altogether irreconcilable with our common notions of human action,</span>
   <span id="f000149">even when we suppose the actors the most depraved of men.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Think,</span>
   <span id="f000151">too,</span>
   <span id="f000152">how great must have been that strength which could have thrust the body <em>up</em> such an aperture so forcibly that the united vigor of several persons was found barely sufficient to drag it <em>down!</em></span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">Turn,</span>
   <span id="f000154">now,</span>
   <span id="f000155">to other indications of the employment of a vigor most marvellous.</span>
   <span id="f000156">On the hearth were thick tresses – very thick tresses – of grey human hair.</span>
   <span id="f000157">These had been torn out by the roots.</span>
   <span id="f000158">You are aware of the great force necessary in tearing thus from the head even twenty or thirty hairs together.</span>
   <span id="f000159">You saw the locks in question as well as myself.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Their roots</span>
   <span id="f000161">(a hideous sight!)</span>
   <span id="f000162">were clotted with fragments of the flesh of the scalp – sure token of the prodigious power which had been exerted in uprooting perhaps half a million of hairs at a time.</span>
   <span id="f000163">The throat of the old lady was not merely cut,</span>
   <span id="f000164">but the head absolutely severed from the body:</span>
   <span id="f000165">the instrument was a mere razor.</span>
   <span id="f000166">I wish you also to look at the <em>brutal</em> ferocity of these deeds.</span>
   <span id="f000167">Of the bruises upon the body of Madame L’Espanaye I do not speak.</span>
   <span id="f000168">Monsieur Dumas,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and his worthy coadjutor Monsieur Etienne,</span>
   <span id="f000170">have pronounced that they were inflicted by some obtuse instrument;</span>
   <span id="f000171">and so far these gentlemen are very correct.</span>
   <span id="f000172">The obtuse instrument was clearly the stone pavement in the yard,</span>
   <span id="f000173">upon which the victim had fallen from the window which looked in upon the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000174">This idea,</span>
   <span id="f000175">however simple it may now seem,</span>
   <span id="f000176">escaped the police for the same reason that the breadth of the shutters escaped them – because,</span>
   <span id="f000177">by the affair of the nails,</span>
   <span id="f000178">their perceptions had been hermetically sealed against the possibility of the windows having ever been opened at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“If now,</span>
   <span id="f000180">in addition to all these things,</span>
   <span id="f000181">you have properly reflected upon the odd disorder of the chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000182">we have gone so far as to combine the ideas of an agility astounding,</span>
   <span id="f000183">a strength superhuman,</span>
   <span id="f000184">a ferocity brutal,</span>
   <span id="f000185">a butchery without motive,</span>
   <span id="f000186">a <em>grotesquerie</em> in horror absolutely alien from humanity,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and a voice foreign in tone to the ears of men of many nations,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and devoid of all distinct or intelligible syllabification.</span>
   <span id="f000189">What result,</span>
   <span id="f000190">then,</span>
   <span id="f000191">has ensued?</span>
   <span id="f000192">What impression have I made upon your fancy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">I felt a creeping of the flesh as Dupin asked me the question.</span>
   <span id="f000194">“A madman,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000195">“has done this deed – some raving maniac,</span>
   <span id="f000196">escaped from a neighboring <em>Maison de Santé.</em>”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“In some respects,” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000198">“your idea is not irrelevant.</span>
   <span id="f000199">But the voices of madmen,</span>
   <span id="f000200">even in their wildest paroxysms,</span>
   <span id="f000201">are never found to tally with that peculiar voice heard upon the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Madmen are of some nation,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and their language,</span>
   <span id="f000204">however incoherent in its words,</span>
   <span id="f000205">has always the coherence of syllabification.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000207">the hair of a madman is not such as I now hold in my hand.</span>
   <span id="f000208">I disentangled this little tuft from the rigidly clutched fingers of Madame L’Espanaye.</span>
   <span id="f000209">Tell me what you can make of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">“Dupin!” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000211">completely unnerved;</span>
   <span id="f000212">“this hair is most unusual – this is no <em>human</em> hair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“I have not asserted that it is,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000214">"but,</span>
   <span id="f000215">before we decide this point,</span>
   <span id="f000216">I wish you to glance at the little sketch I have here traced upon this paper.</span>
   <span id="f000217">It is a <em>fac-simile</em> drawing of what has been described in one portion of the testimony as ’dark bruises,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and deep indentations of finger nails,’ upon the throat of Mademoiselle L’Espanaye,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and in another,</span>
   <span id="f000220">(by Messrs.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Dumas and Etienne,)</span>
   <span id="f000222">as a ’series of livid spots,</span>
   <span id="f000223">evidently the impression of fingers.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“You will perceive,” continued my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000225">spreading out the paper upon the table before us,</span>
   <span id="f000226">“that this drawing gives the idea of a firm and fixed hold.</span>
   <span id="f000227">There is no <em>slipping</em> apparent.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Each finger has retained – possibly until the death of the victim – the fearful grasp by which it originally imbedded itself.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Attempt,</span>
   <span id="f000230">now,</span>
   <span id="f000231">to place all your fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000232">at the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000233">in the respective impressions as you see them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">I made the attempt in vain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“We are possibly not giving this matter a fair trial,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000236">“The paper is spread out upon a plane surface;</span>
   <span id="f000237">but the human throat is cylindrical.</span>
   <span id="f000238">Here is a billet of wood,</span>
   <span id="f000239">the circumference of which is about that of the throat.</span>
   <span id="f000240">Wrap the drawing around it,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and try the experiment again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">I did so;</span>
   <span id="f000243">but the difficulty was even more obvious than before.</span>
   <span id="f000244">“This,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000245">“is the mark of no human hand.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“Read now,” replied Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000247">“this passage from Cuvier.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">It was a minute anatomical and generally descriptive account of the large fulvous Ourang-Outang of the East Indian Islands.</span>
   <span id="f000249">The gigantic stature,</span>
   <span id="f000250">the prodigious strength and activity,</span>
   <span id="f000251">the wild ferocity,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and the imitative propensities of these mammalia are sufficiently well known to all.</span>
   <span id="f000253">I understood the full horrors of the murder at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“The description of the digits,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000255">as I made an end of reading,</span>
   <span id="f000256">“is in exact accordance with this drawing.</span>
   <span id="f000257">I see that no animal but an Ourang-Outang,</span>
   <span id="f000258">of the species here mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000259">could have impressed the indentations as you have traced them.</span>
   <span id="f000260">This tuft of tawny hair,</span>
   <span id="f000261">too,</span>
   <span id="f000262">is identical in character with that of the beast of Cuvier.</span>
   <span id="f000263">But I cannot possibly comprehend the particulars of this frightful mystery.</span>
   <span id="f000264">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000265">there were <em>two</em> voices heard in contention,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and one of them was unquestionably the voice of a Frenchman.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">“True;</span>
   <span id="f000268">and you will remember an expression attributed almost unanimously,</span>
   <span id="f000269">by the evidence,</span>
   <span id="f000270">to this voice,</span>
   <span id="f000271">– the expression,</span>
   <span id="f000272">’<em>mon Dieu!</em>’ This,</span>
   <span id="f000273">under the circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000274">has been justly characterized by one of the witnesses</span>
   <span id="f000275">(Montani,</span>
   <span id="f000276">the confectioner,)</span>
   <span id="f000277">as an expression of remonstrance or expostulation.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Upon these two words,</span>
   <span id="f000279">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000280">I have mainly built my hopes of a full solution of the riddle.</span>
   <span id="f000281">A Frenchman was cognizant of the murder.</span>
   <span id="f000282">It is possible – indeed it is far more than probable – that he was innocent of all participation in the bloody transactions which took place.</span>
   <span id="f000283">The Ourang-Outang may have escaped from him.</span>
   <span id="f000284">He may have traced it to the chamber;</span>
   <span id="f000285">but,</span>
   <span id="f000286">under the agitating circumstances which ensued,</span>
   <span id="f000287">he could never have re-captured it.</span>
   <span id="f000288">It is still at large.</span>
   <span id="f000289">I will not pursue these guesses – for I have no right to call them more – since the shades of reflection upon which they are based are scarcely of sufficient depth to be appreciable by my own intellect,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and since I could not pretend to make them intelligible to the understanding of another.</span>
   <span id="f000291">We will call them guesses then,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and speak of them as such.</span>
   <span id="f000293">If the Frenchman in question is indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000294">as I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000295">innocent of this atrocity,</span>
   <span id="f000296">this advertisement which I left last night,</span>
   <span id="f000297">upon our return home,</span>
   <span id="f000298">at the office of ’Le Monde,’</span>
   <span id="f000299">(a paper devoted to the shipping interest,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and much sought by sailors,)</span>
   <span id="f000301">will bring him to our residence.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">He handed me a paper,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and I read thus:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000304">CAUGHT – <em>In the Bois de Boulogne, </em></span>
   <span id="f000305"><em>early in the morning of the – inst.,</em></span>
   <span id="f000306">(the morning of the murder,)</span>
   <span id="f000307"><em>a very large, </em></span>
   <span id="f000308"><em>tawny Ourang-Outang of the Bornese species. </em></span>
   <span id="f000309"><em>The owner, </em></span>
   <span id="f000310"><em>(who is ascertained to be a sailor, </em></span>
   <span id="f000311"><em>belonging to a Maltese vessel,) </em></span>
   <span id="f000312"><em>may have the animal again, </em></span>
   <span id="f000313"><em>upon identifying it satisfactorily, </em></span>
   <span id="f000314"><em>and paying a few charges arising from its capture and keeping. </em></span>
   <span id="f000315"><em>Call at No. </em></span>
   <span id="f000316"><em>– , </em></span>
   <span id="f000317"><em>Rue – , </em></span>
   <span id="f000318"><em>Faubourg St.&#160;Germain – au troisiême.</em></span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000319">“How was it possible,” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000320">“that you should know the man to be a sailor,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and belonging to a Maltese vessel?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“I do <em>not</em> know it,” said Dupin.</span>
   <span id="f000323">“I am not <em>sure</em> of it.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000325">however,</span>
   <span id="f000326">is a small piece of ribbon,</span>
   <span id="f000327">which from its form,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and from its greasy appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000329">has evidently been used in tying the hair in one of those long <em>queues</em> of which sailors are so fond.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000331">this knot is one which few besides sailors can tie,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and is peculiar to the Maltese.</span>
   <span id="f000333">I picked the ribbon up at the foot of the lightning-rod.</span>
   <span id="f000334">It could not have belonged to either of the deceased.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Now if,</span>
   <span id="f000336">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000337">I am wrong in my induction from this ribbon,</span>
   <span id="f000338">that the Frenchman was a sailor belonging to a Maltese vessel,</span>
   <span id="f000339">still I can have done no harm in saying what I did in the advertisement.</span>
   <span id="f000340">If I am in error,</span>
   <span id="f000341">he will merely suppose that I have been misled by some circumstance into which he will not take the trouble to inquire.</span>
   <span id="f000342">But if I am right,</span>
   <span id="f000343">a great point is gained.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Cognizant although innocent of the murder,</span>
   <span id="f000345">the Frenchman will naturally hesitate about replying to the advertisement – about demanding the Ourang-Outang.</span>
   <span id="f000346">He will reason thus:</span>
   <span id="f000347">– ’I am innocent;</span>
   <span id="f000348">I am poor;</span>
   <span id="f000349">my Ourang-Outang is of great value – to one in my circumstances a fortune of itself – why should I lose it through idle apprehensions of danger?</span>
   <span id="f000350">Here it is,</span>
   <span id="f000351">within my grasp.</span>
   <span id="f000352">It was found in the Bois de Boulogne – at a vast distance from the scene of that butchery.</span>
   <span id="f000353">How can it ever be suspected that a brute beast should have done the deed?</span>
   <span id="f000354">The police are at fault – they have failed to procure the slightest clew.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Should they even trace the animal,</span>
   <span id="f000356">it would be impossible to prove me cognizant of the murder,</span>
   <span id="f000357">or to implicate me in guilt on account of that cognizance.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Above all,</span>
   <span id="f000359"><em>I am known.</em> The advertiser designates me as the possessor of the beast.</span>
   <span id="f000360">I am not sure to what limit his knowledge may extend.</span>
   <span id="f000361">Should I avoid claiming a property of so great value,</span>
   <span id="f000362">which it is known that I possess,</span>
   <span id="f000363">I will render the animal at least,</span>
   <span id="f000364">liable to suspicion.</span>
   <span id="f000365">It is not my policy to attract attention either to myself or to the beast.</span>
   <span id="f000366">I will answer the advertisement,</span>
   <span id="f000367">get the Ourang-Outang,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and keep it close until this matter has blown over.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">At this moment we heard a step upon the stairs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">“Be ready,” said Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000371">“with your pistols,</span>
   <span id="f000372">but neither use them nor show them until at a signal from myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">The front door of the house had been left open,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and the visiter had entered,</span>
   <span id="f000375">without ringing,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and advanced several steps upon the staircase.</span>
   <span id="f000377">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000378">however,</span>
   <span id="f000379">he seemed to hesitate.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Presently we heard him descending.</span>
   <span id="f000381">Dupin was moving quickly to the door,</span>
   <span id="f000382">when we again heard him coming up.</span>
   <span id="f000383">He did not turn back a second time,</span>
   <span id="f000384">but stepped up with decision,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and rapped at the door of our chamber.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">“Come in,” said Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000387">in a cheerful and hearty tone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">A man entered.</span>
   <span id="f000389">He was a sailor,</span>
   <span id="f000390">evidently,</span>
   <span id="f000391">– a tall,</span>
   <span id="f000392">stout,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and muscular-looking person,</span>
   <span id="f000394">with a certain dare-devil expression of countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000395">not altogether unprepossessing.</span>
   <span id="f000396">His face,</span>
   <span id="f000397">greatly sunburnt,</span>
   <span id="f000398">was more than half hidden by whisker and <em>mustachio.</em> He had with him a huge oaken cudgel,</span>
   <span id="f000399">but appeared to be otherwise unarmed.</span>
   <span id="f000400">He bowed awkwardly,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and bade us “good evening,” in French accents,</span>
   <span id="f000402">which,</span>
   <span id="f000403">although somewhat Neufchatelish,</span>
   <span id="f000404">were still sufficiently indicative of a Parisian origin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000406">my friend,” said Dupin.</span>
   <span id="f000407">“I suppose you have called about the Ourang-Outang.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Upon my word,</span>
   <span id="f000409">I almost envy you the possession of him;</span>
   <span id="f000410">a remarkably fine,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and no doubt a very valuable animal.</span>
   <span id="f000412">How old do you suppose him to be?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">The sailor drew a long breath,</span>
   <span id="f000414">with the air of a man relieved of some intolerable burden,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and then replied,</span>
   <span id="f000416">in an assured tone:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">“I have no way of telling – but he can’t be more than four or five years old.</span>
   <span id="f000418">Have you got him here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“Oh no,</span>
   <span id="f000420">we had no conveniences for keeping him here.</span>
   <span id="f000421">He is at a livery stable in the Rue Dubourg,</span>
   <span id="f000422">just by.</span>
   <span id="f000423">You can get him in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Of course you are prepared to identify the property?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“To be sure I am,</span>
   <span id="f000426">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">“I shall be sorry to part with him,” said Dupin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">“I don’t mean that you should be at all this trouble for nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000429">sir,” said the man.</span>
   <span id="f000430">“Couldn’t expect it.</span>
   <span id="f000431">Am very willing to pay a reward for the finding of the animal – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000432">any thing in reason.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“Well,” replied my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000434">“that is all very fair,</span>
   <span id="f000435">to be sure.</span>
   <span id="f000436">Let me think!</span>
   <span id="f000437">– what should I have?</span>
   <span id="f000438">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000439">I will tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000440">My reward shall be this.</span>
   <span id="f000441">You shall give me all the information in your power about these murders in the Rue Morgue.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">Dupin said the last words in a very low tone,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and very quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Just as quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000445">too,</span>
   <span id="f000446">he walked toward the door,</span>
   <span id="f000447">locked it and put the key in his pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000448">He then drew a pistol from his bosom and placed it,</span>
   <span id="f000449">without the least flurry,</span>
   <span id="f000450">upon the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">The sailor’s face flushed up as if he were struggling with suffocation.</span>
   <span id="f000452">He started to his feet and grasped his cudgel,</span>
   <span id="f000453">but the next moment he fell back into his seat,</span>
   <span id="f000454">trembling violently,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and with the countenance of death itself.</span>
   <span id="f000456">He spoke not a word.</span>
   <span id="f000457">I pitied him from the bottom of my heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">“My friend,” said Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000459">in a kind tone,</span>
   <span id="f000460">“you are alarming yourself unnecessarily – you are indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000461">We mean you no harm whatever.</span>
   <span id="f000462">I pledge you the honor of a gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and of a Frenchman,</span>
   <span id="f000464">that we intend you no injury.</span>
   <span id="f000465">I perfectly well know that you are innocent of the atrocities in the Rue Morgue.</span>
   <span id="f000466">It will not do,</span>
   <span id="f000467">however,</span>
   <span id="f000468">to deny that you are in some measure implicated in them.</span>
   <span id="f000469">From what I have already said,</span>
   <span id="f000470">you must know that I have had means of information about this matter – means of which you could never have dreamed.</span>
   <span id="f000471">Now the thing stands thus.</span>
   <span id="f000472">You have done nothing which you could have avoided – nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000473">certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000474">which renders you culpable.</span>
   <span id="f000475">You were not even guilty of robbery,</span>
   <span id="f000476">when you might have robbed with impunity.</span>
   <span id="f000477">You have nothing to conceal.</span>
   <span id="f000478">You have no reason for concealment.</span>
   <span id="f000479">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000480">you are bound by every principle of honor to confess all you know.</span>
   <span id="f000481">An innocent man is now imprisoned,</span>
   <span id="f000482">charged with that crime of which you can point out the perpetrator.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">The sailor had recovered his presence of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000484">in a great measure,</span>
   <span id="f000485">while Dupin uttered these words;</span>
   <span id="f000486">but his original boldness of bearing was all gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“So help me God,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000488">after a brief pause,</span>
   <span id="f000489">“I will tell you all I know about this affair;</span>
   <span id="f000490">– but I do not expect you to believe one half I say – I would be a fool indeed if I did.</span>
   <span id="f000491">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000492">I am innocent,</span>
   <span id="f000493">and I will make a clean breast if I die for it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000494">What he stated was,</span>
   <span id="f000495">in substance,</span>
   <span id="f000496">this.</span>
   <span id="f000497">He had lately made a voyage to the Indian Archipelago.</span>
   <span id="f000498">A party,</span>
   <span id="f000499">of which he formed one,</span>
   <span id="f000500">landed at Borneo,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and passed into the interior on an excursion of pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000502">Himself and a companion had captured the Ourang-Outang.</span>
   <span id="f000503">This companion dying,</span>
   <span id="f000504">the animal fell into his own exclusive possession.</span>
   <span id="f000505">After great trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000506">occasioned by the intractable ferocity of his captive during the home voyage,</span>
   <span id="f000507">he at length succeeded in lodging it safely at his own residence in Paris,</span>
   <span id="f000508">where,</span>
   <span id="f000509">not to attract toward himself the unpleasant curiosity of his neighbors,</span>
   <span id="f000510">he kept it carefully secluded,</span>
   <span id="f000511">until such time as it should recover from a wound in the foot,</span>
   <span id="f000512">received from a splinter on board ship.</span>
   <span id="f000513">His ultimate design was to sell it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">Returning home from some sailors’ frolic the night,</span>
   <span id="f000515">or rather in the morning of the murder,</span>
   <span id="f000516">he found the beast occupying his own bed-room,</span>
   <span id="f000517">into which it had broken from a closet adjoining,</span>
   <span id="f000518">where it had been,</span>
   <span id="f000519">as was thought,</span>
   <span id="f000520">securely confined.</span>
   <span id="f000521">Razor in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and fully lathered,</span>
   <span id="f000523">it was sitting before a looking-glass,</span>
   <span id="f000524">attempting the operation of shaving,</span>
   <span id="f000525">in which it had no doubt previously watched its master through the key-hole of the closet.</span>
   <span id="f000526">Terrified at the sight of so dangerous a weapon in the possession of an animal so ferocious,</span>
   <span id="f000527">and so well able to use it,</span>
   <span id="f000528">the man,</span>
   <span id="f000529">for some moments,</span>
   <span id="f000530">was at a loss what to do.</span>
   <span id="f000531">He had been accustomed,</span>
   <span id="f000532">however,</span>
   <span id="f000533">to quiet the creature,</span>
   <span id="f000534">even in its fiercest moods,</span>
   <span id="f000535">by the use of a whip,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and to this he now resorted.</span>
   <span id="f000537">Upon sight of it,</span>
   <span id="f000538">the Ourang-Outang sprang at once through the door of the chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000539">down the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000540">and thence,</span>
   <span id="f000541">through a window,</span>
   <span id="f000542">unfortunately open,</span>
   <span id="f000543">into the street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">The Frenchman followed in despair;</span>
   <span id="f000545">the ape,</span>
   <span id="f000546">razor still in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000547">occasionally stopping to look back and gesticulate at its pursuer,</span>
   <span id="f000548">until the latter had nearly come up with it.</span>
   <span id="f000549">It then again made off.</span>
   <span id="f000550">In this manner the chase continued for a long time.</span>
   <span id="f000551">The streets were profoundly quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000552">as it was nearly three o’clock in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000553">In passing down an alley in the rear of the Rue Morgue,</span>
   <span id="f000554">the fugitive’s attention was arrested by a light gleaming from the open window of Madame L’Espanaye’s chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000555">in the fourth story of her house.</span>
   <span id="f000556">Rushing to the building,</span>
   <span id="f000557">it perceived the lightning rod,</span>
   <span id="f000558">clambered up with inconceivable agility,</span>
   <span id="f000559">grasped the shutter,</span>
   <span id="f000560">which was thrown fully back against the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and,</span>
   <span id="f000562">by its means,</span>
   <span id="f000563">swung itself directly upon the headboard of the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000564">The whole feat did not occupy a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000565">The shutter was kicked open again by the Ourang-Outang as it entered the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">The sailor,</span>
   <span id="f000567">in the meantime,</span>
   <span id="f000568">was both rejoiced and perplexed.</span>
   <span id="f000569">He had strong hopes of now recapturing the brute,</span>
   <span id="f000570">as it could scarcely escape from the trap into which it had ventured,</span>
   <span id="f000571">except by the rod,</span>
   <span id="f000572">where it might be intercepted as it came down.</span>
   <span id="f000573">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000574">there was much cause for anxiety as to what it might do in the house.</span>
   <span id="f000575">This latter reflection urged the man still to follow the fugitive.</span>
   <span id="f000576">A lightning rod is ascended without difficulty,</span>
   <span id="f000577">especially by a sailor;</span>
   <span id="f000578">but,</span>
   <span id="f000579">when he had arrived as high as the window,</span>
   <span id="f000580">which lay far to his left,</span>
   <span id="f000581">his career was stopped;</span>
   <span id="f000582">the most that he could accomplish was to reach over so as to obtain a glimpse of the interior of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000583">At this glimpse he nearly fell from his hold through excess of horror.</span>
   <span id="f000584">Now it was that those hideous shrieks arose upon the night,</span>
   <span id="f000585">which had startled from slumber the inmates of the Rue Morgue.</span>
   <span id="f000586">Madame L’Espanaye and her daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000587">habited in their night clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000588">had apparently been occupied in arranging some papers in the iron chest already mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000589">which had been wheeled into the middle of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000590">It was open,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and its contents lay beside it on the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000592">The victims must have been sitting with their backs toward the window;</span>
   <span id="f000593">and,</span>
   <span id="f000594">from the time elapsing between the ingress of the beast and the screams,</span>
   <span id="f000595">it seems probable that it was not immediately perceived.</span>
   <span id="f000596">The flapping-to of the shutter would naturally have been attributed to the wind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">As the sailor looked in,</span>
   <span id="f000598">the gigantic animal had seized Madame L’Espanaye by the hair,</span>
   <span id="f000599">(which was loose,</span>
   <span id="f000600">as she had been combing it,)</span>
   <span id="f000601">and was flourishing the razor about her face,</span>
   <span id="f000602">in imitation of the motions of a barber.</span>
   <span id="f000603">The daughter lay prostrate and motionless;</span>
   <span id="f000604">she had swooned.</span>
   <span id="f000605">The screams and struggles of the old lady</span>
   <span id="f000606">(during which the hair was torn from her head)</span>
   <span id="f000607">had the effect of changing the probably pacific purposes of the Ourang-Outang into those of wrath.</span>
   <span id="f000608">With one determined sweep of its muscular arm it nearly severed her head from her body.</span>
   <span id="f000609">The sight of blood inflamed its anger into phrenzy.</span>
   <span id="f000610">Gnashing its teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and flashing fire from its eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000612">it flew upon the body of the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and imbedded its fearful talons in her throat,</span>
   <span id="f000614">retaining its grasp until she expired.</span>
   <span id="f000615">Its wandering and wild glances fell at this moment upon the head of the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000616">over which the face of its master,</span>
   <span id="f000617">rigid with horror,</span>
   <span id="f000618">was just discernible.</span>
   <span id="f000619">The fury of the beast,</span>
   <span id="f000620">who no doubt bore still in mind the dreaded whip,</span>
   <span id="f000621">was instantly converted into fear.</span>
   <span id="f000622">Conscious of having deserved punishment,</span>
   <span id="f000623">it seemed desirous of concealing its bloody deeds,</span>
   <span id="f000624">and skipped about the chamber in an agony of nervous agitation;</span>
   <span id="f000625">throwing down and breaking the furniture as it moved,</span>
   <span id="f000626">and dragging the bed from the bedstead.</span>
   <span id="f000627">In conclusion,</span>
   <span id="f000628">it seized first the corpse of the daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000629">and thrust it up the chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000630">as it was found;</span>
   <span id="f000631">then that of the old lady,</span>
   <span id="f000632">which it immediately hurled through the window headlong.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000633">As the ape approached the casement with its mutilated burden,</span>
   <span id="f000634">the sailor shrank aghast to the rod,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and,</span>
   <span id="f000636">rather gliding than clambering down it,</span>
   <span id="f000637">hurried at once home – dreading the consequences of the butchery,</span>
   <span id="f000638">and gladly abandoning,</span>
   <span id="f000639">in his terror,</span>
   <span id="f000640">all solicitude about the fate of the Ourang-Outang.</span>
   <span id="f000641">The words heard by the party upon the staircase were the Frenchman’s exclamations of horror and affright,</span>
   <span id="f000642">commingled with the fiendish jabberings of the brute.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">I have scarcely anything to add.</span>
   <span id="f000644">The Ourang-Outang must have escaped from the chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000645">by the rod,</span>
   <span id="f000646">just before the break of the door.</span>
   <span id="f000647">It must have closed the window as it passed through it.</span>
   <span id="f000648">It was subsequently caught by the owner himself,</span>
   <span id="f000649">who obtained for it a very large sum at the <em>Jardin des Plantes.</em> Le Don was instantly released,</span>
   <span id="f000650">upon our narration of the circumstances</span>
   <span id="f000651">(with some comments from Dupin)</span>
   <span id="f000652">at the bureau of the Prefect of Police.</span>
   <span id="f000653">This functionary,</span>
   <span id="f000654">however well disposed to my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000655">could not altogether conceal his chagrin at the turn which affairs had taken,</span>
   <span id="f000656">and was fain to indulge in a sarcasm or two,</span>
   <span id="f000657">about the propriety of every person minding his own business.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000658">“Let him talk,” said Dupin,</span>
   <span id="f000659">who had not thought it necessary to reply.</span>
   <span id="f000660">“Let him discourse;</span>
   <span id="f000661">it will ease his conscience,</span>
   <span id="f000662">I am satisfied with having defeated him in his own castle.</span>
   <span id="f000663">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000664">that he failed in the solution of this mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000665">is by no means that matter for wonder which he supposes it;</span>
   <span id="f000666">for,</span>
   <span id="f000667">in truth,</span>
   <span id="f000668">our friend the Prefect is somewhat too cunning to be profound.</span>
   <span id="f000669">In his wisdom is no <em>stamen.</em> It is all head and no body,</span>
   <span id="f000670">like the pictures of the Goddess Laverna,</span>
   <span id="f000671">– or,</span>
   <span id="f000672">at best,</span>
   <span id="f000673">all head and shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000674">like a codfish.</span>
   <span id="f000675">But he is a good creature after all.</span>
   <span id="f000676">I like him especially for one master stroke of cant,</span>
   <span id="f000677">by which he has attained his reputation for ingenuity.</span>
   <span id="f000678">I mean the way he has ’<em>de nier ce qui est, </em></span>
   <span id="f000679"><em>et d’expliquer ce qui n’est pas.</em>’”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

