<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />James K. White</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000004">The Bell-Tower</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000005">by<br />Herman Melville</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000006">In the south of Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000007">nigh a once frescoed capital,</span>
   <span id="f000008">now with dank mould cankering its bloom,</span>
   <span id="f000009">central in a plain,</span>
   <span id="f000010">stands what,</span>
   <span id="f000011">at distance,</span>
   <span id="f000012">seems the black mossed stump of some immeasurable pine,</span>
   <span id="f000013">fallen,</span>
   <span id="f000014">in forgotten days,</span>
   <span id="f000015">with Anak and the Titan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">As all along where the pine tree falls,</span>
   <span id="f000017">its dissolution leaves a mossy mound – last-flung shadow of the perished trunk;</span>
   <span id="f000018">never lengthening,</span>
   <span id="f000019">never lessening;</span>
   <span id="f000020">unsubject to the fleet falsities of the sun;</span>
   <span id="f000021">shade immutable,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and true gauge which cometh by prostration – so westward from what seems the stump,</span>
   <span id="f000023">one steadfast spear of lichened ruin veins the plain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">From that tree-top,</span>
   <span id="f000025">what birded chimes of silver throats had rung.</span>
   <span id="f000026">A stone pine;</span>
   <span id="f000027">a metallic aviary in its crown:</span>
   <span id="f000028">the Bell-Tower,</span>
   <span id="f000029">built by the great mechanician,</span>
   <span id="f000030">the unblest foundling,</span>
   <span id="f000031">Bannadonna.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">Like Babel’s,</span>
   <span id="f000033">its base was laid in a high hour of renovated earth,</span>
   <span id="f000034">following the second deluge,</span>
   <span id="f000035">when the waters of the Dark Ages had dried up,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and once more the green appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000037">No wonder that,</span>
   <span id="f000038">after so long and deep submersion,</span>
   <span id="f000039">the jubilant expectation of the race should,</span>
   <span id="f000040">as with Noah’s sons,</span>
   <span id="f000041">soar into Shinar aspiration.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">In firm resolve,</span>
   <span id="f000043">no man in Europe at that period went beyond Bannadonna.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Enriched through commerce with the Levant,</span>
   <span id="f000045">the state in which he lived voted to have the noblest Bell-Tower in Italy.</span>
   <span id="f000046">His repute assigned him to be architect.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">Stone by stone,</span>
   <span id="f000048">month by month,</span>
   <span id="f000049">the tower rose.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Higher,</span>
   <span id="f000051">higher;</span>
   <span id="f000052">snail-like in pace,</span>
   <span id="f000053">but torch or rocket in its pride.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">After the masons would depart,</span>
   <span id="f000055">the builder,</span>
   <span id="f000056">standing alone upon its ever-ascending summit,</span>
   <span id="f000057">at close of every day,</span>
   <span id="f000058">saw that he overtopped still higher walls and trees.</span>
   <span id="f000059">He would tarry till a late hour there,</span>
   <span id="f000060">wrapped in schemes of other and still loftier piles.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Those who of saints’ days thronged the spot – hanging to the rude poles of scaffolding,</span>
   <span id="f000062">like sailors on yards,</span>
   <span id="f000063">or bees on boughs,</span>
   <span id="f000064">unmindful of lime and dust,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and falling chips of stone – their homage not the less inspirited him to self-esteem.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">At length the holiday of the Tower came.</span>
   <span id="f000067">To the sound of viols,</span>
   <span id="f000068">the climax-stone slowly rose in air,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and,</span>
   <span id="f000070">amid the firing of ordnance,</span>
   <span id="f000071">was laid by Bannadonna’s hands upon the final course.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Then mounting it,</span>
   <span id="f000073">he stood erect,</span>
   <span id="f000074">alone,</span>
   <span id="f000075">with folded arms,</span>
   <span id="f000076">gazing upon the white summits of blue inland Alps,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and whiter crests of bluer Alps off-shore – sights invisible from the plain.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Invisible,</span>
   <span id="f000079">too,</span>
   <span id="f000080">from thence was that eye he turned below,</span>
   <span id="f000081">when,</span>
   <span id="f000082">like the cannon booms,</span>
   <span id="f000083">came up to him the people’s combustions of applause.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">That which stirred them so was,</span>
   <span id="f000085">seeing with what serenity the builder stood three hundred feet in air,</span>
   <span id="f000086">upon an unrailed perch.</span>
   <span id="f000087">This none but he durst do.</span>
   <span id="f000088">But his periodic standing upon the pile,</span>
   <span id="f000089">in each stage of its growth – such discipline had its last result.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">Little remained now but the bells.</span>
   <span id="f000091">These,</span>
   <span id="f000092">in all respects,</span>
   <span id="f000093">must correspond with their receptacle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">The minor ones were prosperously cast.</span>
   <span id="f000095">A highly enriched one followed,</span>
   <span id="f000096">of a singular make,</span>
   <span id="f000097">intended for suspension in a manner before unknown.</span>
   <span id="f000098">The purpose of this bell,</span>
   <span id="f000099">its rotary motion,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and connection with the clock-work,</span>
   <span id="f000101">also executed at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000102">will,</span>
   <span id="f000103">in the sequel,</span>
   <span id="f000104">receive mention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">In the one erection,</span>
   <span id="f000106">bell-tower and clock-tower were united,</span>
   <span id="f000107">though,</span>
   <span id="f000108">before that period,</span>
   <span id="f000109">such structures had commonly been built distinct;</span>
   <span id="f000110">as the Campanile and Torre del ’Orologio of St.&#160;Mark to this day attest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">But it was upon the great state-bell that the founder lavished his more daring skill.</span>
   <span id="f000112">In vain did some of the less elated magistrates here caution him;</span>
   <span id="f000113">saying that though truly the tower was Titanic,</span>
   <span id="f000114">yet limit should be set to the dependent weight of its swaying masses.</span>
   <span id="f000115">But undeterred,</span>
   <span id="f000116">he prepared his mammoth mould,</span>
   <span id="f000117">dented with mythological devices;</span>
   <span id="f000118">kindled his fires of balsamic firs;</span>
   <span id="f000119">melted his tin and copper,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and,</span>
   <span id="f000121">throwing in much plate,</span>
   <span id="f000122">contributed by the public spirit of the nobles,</span>
   <span id="f000123">let loose the tide.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">The unleashed metals bayed like hounds.</span>
   <span id="f000125">The workmen shrunk.</span>
   <span id="f000126">Through their fright,</span>
   <span id="f000127">fatal harm to the bell was dreaded.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Fearless as Shadrach,</span>
   <span id="f000129">Bannadonna,</span>
   <span id="f000130">rushing through the glow,</span>
   <span id="f000131">smote the chief culprit with his ponderous ladle.</span>
   <span id="f000132">From the smitten part,</span>
   <span id="f000133">a splinter was dashed into the seething mass,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and at once was melted in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">Next day a portion of the work was heedfully uncovered.</span>
   <span id="f000136">All seemed right.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Upon the third morning,</span>
   <span id="f000138">with equal satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000139">it was bared still lower.</span>
   <span id="f000140">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000141">like some old Theban king,</span>
   <span id="f000142">the whole cooled casting was disinterred.</span>
   <span id="f000143">All was fair except in one strange spot.</span>
   <span id="f000144">But as he suffered no one to attend him in these inspections,</span>
   <span id="f000145">he concealed the blemish by some preparation which none knew better to devise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">The casting of such a mass was deemed no small triumph for the caster;</span>
   <span id="f000147">one,</span>
   <span id="f000148">too,</span>
   <span id="f000149">in which the state might not scorn to share.</span>
   <span id="f000150">The homicide was overlooked.</span>
   <span id="f000151">By the charitable that deed was but imputed to sudden transports of esthetic passion,</span>
   <span id="f000152">not to any flagitious quality.</span>
   <span id="f000153">A kick from an Arabian charger;</span>
   <span id="f000154">not sign of vice,</span>
   <span id="f000155">but blood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">His felony remitted by the judge,</span>
   <span id="f000157">absolution given him by the priest,</span>
   <span id="f000158">what more could even a sickly conscience have desired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">Honoring the tower and its builder with another holiday,</span>
   <span id="f000160">the republic witnessed the hoisting of the bells and clock-work amid shows and pomps superior to the former.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">Some months of more than usual solitude on Bannadonna’s part ensued.</span>
   <span id="f000162">It was not unknown that he was engaged upon something for the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000163">intended to complete it,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and surpass all that had gone before.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Most people imagined that the design would involve a casting like the bells.</span>
   <span id="f000166">But those who thought they had some further insight,</span>
   <span id="f000167">would shake their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000168">with hints,</span>
   <span id="f000169">that not for nothing did the mechanician keep so secret.</span>
   <span id="f000170">Meantime,</span>
   <span id="f000171">his seclusion failed not to invest his work with more or less of that sort of mystery pertaining to the forbidden.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">Ere long he had a heavy object hoisted to the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000173">wrapped in a dark sack or cloak – a procedure sometimes had in the case of an elaborate piece of sculpture,</span>
   <span id="f000174">or statue,</span>
   <span id="f000175">which,</span>
   <span id="f000176">being intended to grace the front of a new edifice,</span>
   <span id="f000177">the architect does not desire exposed to critical eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000178">till set up,</span>
   <span id="f000179">finished,</span>
   <span id="f000180">in its appointed place.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Such was the impression now.</span>
   <span id="f000182">But,</span>
   <span id="f000183">as the object rose,</span>
   <span id="f000184">a statuary present observed,</span>
   <span id="f000185">or thought he did,</span>
   <span id="f000186">that it was not entirely rigid,</span>
   <span id="f000187">but was,</span>
   <span id="f000188">in a manner,</span>
   <span id="f000189">pliant.</span>
   <span id="f000190">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000191">when the hidden thing had attained its final height,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and,</span>
   <span id="f000193">obscurely seen from below,</span>
   <span id="f000194">seemed almost of itself to step into the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000195">as if with little assistance from the crane,</span>
   <span id="f000196">a shrewd old blacksmith present ventured the suspicion that it was but a living man.</span>
   <span id="f000197">This surmise was thought a foolish one,</span>
   <span id="f000198">while the general interest failed not to augment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">Not without demur from Bannadonna,</span>
   <span id="f000200">the chief-magistrate of the town,</span>
   <span id="f000201">with an associate – both elderly men – followed what seemed the image up the tower.</span>
   <span id="f000202">But,</span>
   <span id="f000203">arrived at the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000204">they had little recompense.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Plausibly entrenching himself behind the conceded mysteries of his art,</span>
   <span id="f000206">the mechanician withheld present explanation.</span>
   <span id="f000207">The magistrates glanced toward the cloaked object,</span>
   <span id="f000208">which,</span>
   <span id="f000209">to their surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000210">seemed now to have changed its attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000211">or else had before been more perplexingly concealed by the violent muffling action of the wind without.</span>
   <span id="f000212">It seemed now seated upon some sort of frame,</span>
   <span id="f000213">or chair,</span>
   <span id="f000214">contained within the domino.</span>
   <span id="f000215">They observed that nigh the top,</span>
   <span id="f000216">in a sort of square,</span>
   <span id="f000217">the web of the cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000218">either from accident or design,</span>
   <span id="f000219">had its warp partly withdrawn,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and the cross threads plucked out here and there,</span>
   <span id="f000221">so as to form a sort of woven grating.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Whether it were the low wind or no,</span>
   <span id="f000223">stealing through the stone lattice-work,</span>
   <span id="f000224">or only their own perturbed imaginations,</span>
   <span id="f000225">is uncertain,</span>
   <span id="f000226">but they thought they discerned a slight sort of fitful,</span>
   <span id="f000227">spring-like motion,</span>
   <span id="f000228">in the domino.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000230">however incidental or insignificant,</span>
   <span id="f000231">escaped their uneasy eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Among other things,</span>
   <span id="f000233">they pried out,</span>
   <span id="f000234">in a corner,</span>
   <span id="f000235">an earthen cup,</span>
   <span id="f000236">partly corroded and partly encrusted,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and one whispered to the other,</span>
   <span id="f000238">that this cup was just such a one as might,</span>
   <span id="f000239">in mockery,</span>
   <span id="f000240">be offered to the lips of some brazen statue,</span>
   <span id="f000241">or,</span>
   <span id="f000242">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000243">still worse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">But,</span>
   <span id="f000245">being questioned,</span>
   <span id="f000246">the mechanician said,</span>
   <span id="f000247">that the cup was simply used in his founder’s business,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and described the purpose;</span>
   <span id="f000249">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000250">a cup to test the condition of metals in fusion.</span>
   <span id="f000251">He added,</span>
   <span id="f000252">that it had got into the belfry by the merest chance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">Again,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and again,</span>
   <span id="f000255">they gazed at the domino,</span>
   <span id="f000256">as at some suspicious incognito at a Venetian mask.</span>
   <span id="f000257">All sorts of vague apprehensions stirred them.</span>
   <span id="f000258">They even dreaded lest,</span>
   <span id="f000259">when they should descend,</span>
   <span id="f000260">the mechanician,</span>
   <span id="f000261">though without a flesh and blood companion,</span>
   <span id="f000262">for all that,</span>
   <span id="f000263">would not be left alone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">Affecting some merriment at their disquietude,</span>
   <span id="f000265">he begged to relieve them,</span>
   <span id="f000266">by extending a coarse sheet of workman’s canvas between them and the object.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">Meantime he sought to interest them in his other work;</span>
   <span id="f000268">nor,</span>
   <span id="f000269">now that the domino was out of sight,</span>
   <span id="f000270">did they long remain insensible to the artistic wonders lying round them;</span>
   <span id="f000271">wonders hitherto beheld but in their unfinished state;</span>
   <span id="f000272">because,</span>
   <span id="f000273">since hoisting the bells,</span>
   <span id="f000274">none but the caster had entered within the belfry.</span>
   <span id="f000275">It was one trait of his,</span>
   <span id="f000276">that,</span>
   <span id="f000277">even in details,</span>
   <span id="f000278">he would not let another do what he could,</span>
   <span id="f000279">without too great loss of time,</span>
   <span id="f000280">accomplish for himself.</span>
   <span id="f000281">So,</span>
   <span id="f000282">for several preceding weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000283">whatever hours were unemployed in his secret design,</span>
   <span id="f000284">had been devoted to elaborating the figures on the bells.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">The clock-bell,</span>
   <span id="f000286">in particular,</span>
   <span id="f000287">now drew attention.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Under a patient chisel,</span>
   <span id="f000289">the latent beauty of its enrichments,</span>
   <span id="f000290">before obscured by the cloudings incident to casting,</span>
   <span id="f000291">that beauty in its shyest grace,</span>
   <span id="f000292">was now revealed.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Round and round the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000294">twelve figures of gay girls,</span>
   <span id="f000295">garlanded,</span>
   <span id="f000296">hand-in-hand,</span>
   <span id="f000297">danced in a choral ring – the embodied hours.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“Bannadonna,” said the chief,</span>
   <span id="f000299">“this bell excels all else.</span>
   <span id="f000300">No added touch could here improve.</span>
   <span id="f000301">Hark!” hearing a sound,</span>
   <span id="f000302">“was that the wind?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“The wind,</span>
   <span id="f000304">Excellenza,” was the light response.</span>
   <span id="f000305">“But the figures,</span>
   <span id="f000306">they are not yet without their faults.</span>
   <span id="f000307">They need some touches yet.</span>
   <span id="f000308">When those are given,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and the – block yonder,” pointing towards the canvas screen,</span>
   <span id="f000310">“when Haman there,</span>
   <span id="f000311">as I merrily call him,</span>
   <span id="f000312">– him?</span>
   <span id="f000313"><em>it</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000314">I mean – when Haman is fixed on this,</span>
   <span id="f000315">his lofty tree,</span>
   <span id="f000316">then,</span>
   <span id="f000317">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000318">will I be most happy to receive you here again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">The equivocal reference to the object caused some return of restlessness.</span>
   <span id="f000320">However,</span>
   <span id="f000321">on their part,</span>
   <span id="f000322">the visitors forbore further allusion to it,</span>
   <span id="f000323">unwilling,</span>
   <span id="f000324">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000325">to let the foundling see how easily it lay within his plebeian art to stir the placid dignity of nobles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000327">Bannadonna,” said the chief,</span>
   <span id="f000328">“how long ere you are ready to set the clock going,</span>
   <span id="f000329">so that the hour shall be sounded?</span>
   <span id="f000330">Our interest in you,</span>
   <span id="f000331">not less than in the work itself,</span>
   <span id="f000332">makes us anxious to be assured of your success.</span>
   <span id="f000333">The people,</span>
   <span id="f000334">too,</span>
   <span id="f000335">– why,</span>
   <span id="f000336">they are shouting now.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Say the exact hour when you will be ready.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">“To-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000339">Excellenza,</span>
   <span id="f000340">if you listen for it,</span>
   <span id="f000341">– or should you not,</span>
   <span id="f000342">all the same – strange music will be heard.</span>
   <span id="f000343">The stroke of one shall be the first from yonder bell,” pointing to the bell adorned with girls and garlands,</span>
   <span id="f000344">“that stroke shall fall there,</span>
   <span id="f000345">where the hand of Una clasps Dua’s.</span>
   <span id="f000346">The stroke of one shall sever that loved clasp.</span>
   <span id="f000347">To-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000348">then,</span>
   <span id="f000349">at one o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000350">as struck here,</span>
   <span id="f000351">precisely here,” advancing and placing his finger upon the clasp,</span>
   <span id="f000352">“the poor mechanic will be most happy once more to give you liege audience,</span>
   <span id="f000353">in this his littered shop.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Farewell till then,</span>
   <span id="f000355">illustrious magnificoes,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and hark ye for your vassal’s stroke.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">His still,</span>
   <span id="f000358">Vulcanic face hiding its burning brightness like a forge,</span>
   <span id="f000359">he moved with ostentatious deference towards the scuttle,</span>
   <span id="f000360">as if so far to escort their exit.</span>
   <span id="f000361">But the junior magistrate,</span>
   <span id="f000362">a kind-hearted man,</span>
   <span id="f000363">troubled at what seemed to him a certain sardonical disdain,</span>
   <span id="f000364">lurking beneath the foundling’s humble mien,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and in Christian sympathy more distressed at it on his account than on his own,</span>
   <span id="f000366">dimly surmising what might be the final fate of such a cynic solitaire,</span>
   <span id="f000367">nor perhaps uninfluenced by the general strangeness of surrounding things,</span>
   <span id="f000368">this good magistrate had glanced sadly,</span>
   <span id="f000369">sideways from the speaker,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and thereupon his foreboding eye had started at the expression of the unchanging face of the Hour Una.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“How is this,</span>
   <span id="f000372">Bannadonna?” he lowly asked,</span>
   <span id="f000373">“Una looks unlike her sisters.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“In Christ’s name,</span>
   <span id="f000375">Bannadonna,” impulsively broke in the chief,</span>
   <span id="f000376">his attention,</span>
   <span id="f000377">for the first attracted to the figure,</span>
   <span id="f000378">by his associate’s remark,</span>
   <span id="f000379">“Una’s face looks just like that of Deborah,</span>
   <span id="f000380">the prophetess,</span>
   <span id="f000381">as painted by the Florentine,</span>
   <span id="f000382">Del Fonca.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">“Surely,</span>
   <span id="f000384">Bannadonna,” lowly resumed the milder magistrate,</span>
   <span id="f000385">“you meant the twelve should wear the same jocundly abandoned air.</span>
   <span id="f000386">But see,</span>
   <span id="f000387">the smile of Una seems but a fatal one.</span>
   <span id="f000388">’Tis different.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">While his mild associate was speaking,</span>
   <span id="f000390">the chief glanced,</span>
   <span id="f000391">inquiringly,</span>
   <span id="f000392">from him to the caster,</span>
   <span id="f000393">as if anxious to mark how the discrepancy would be accounted for.</span>
   <span id="f000394">As the chief stood,</span>
   <span id="f000395">his advanced foot was on the scuttle’s curb.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">Bannadonna spoke:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“Excellenza,</span>
   <span id="f000398">now that,</span>
   <span id="f000399">following your keener eye,</span>
   <span id="f000400">I glance upon the face of Una,</span>
   <span id="f000401">I do,</span>
   <span id="f000402">indeed perceive some little variance.</span>
   <span id="f000403">But look all round the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and you will find no two faces entirely correspond.</span>
   <span id="f000405">Because there is a law in art – but the cold wind is rising more;</span>
   <span id="f000406">these lattices are but a poor defense.</span>
   <span id="f000407">Suffer me,</span>
   <span id="f000408">magnificoes,</span>
   <span id="f000409">to conduct you,</span>
   <span id="f000410">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000411">partly on your way.</span>
   <span id="f000412">Those in whose well-being there is a public stake,</span>
   <span id="f000413">should be heedfully attended.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“Touching the look of Una,</span>
   <span id="f000415">you were saying,</span>
   <span id="f000416">Bannadonna,</span>
   <span id="f000417">that there was a certain law in art,” observed the chief,</span>
   <span id="f000418">as the three now descended the stone shaft,</span>
   <span id="f000419">“pray,</span>
   <span id="f000420">tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000421">then – .”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">“Pardon;</span>
   <span id="f000423">another time,</span>
   <span id="f000424">Excellenza;</span>
   <span id="f000425">– the tower is damp.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000427">I must rest,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and hear it now.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000430">– here is a wide landing,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and through this leeward slit,</span>
   <span id="f000432">no wind,</span>
   <span id="f000433">but ample light.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Tell us of your law;</span>
   <span id="f000435">and at large.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">“Since,</span>
   <span id="f000437">Excellenza,</span>
   <span id="f000438">you insist,</span>
   <span id="f000439">know that there is a law in art,</span>
   <span id="f000440">which bars the possibility of duplicates.</span>
   <span id="f000441">Some years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000442">you may remember,</span>
   <span id="f000443">I graved a small seal for your republic,</span>
   <span id="f000444">bearing,</span>
   <span id="f000445">for its chief device,</span>
   <span id="f000446">the head of your own ancestor,</span>
   <span id="f000447">its illustrious founder.</span>
   <span id="f000448">It becoming necessary,</span>
   <span id="f000449">for the customs’ use,</span>
   <span id="f000450">to have innumerable impressions for bales and boxes,</span>
   <span id="f000451">I graved an entire plate,</span>
   <span id="f000452">containing one hundred of the seals.</span>
   <span id="f000453">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000454">though,</span>
   <span id="f000455">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000456">my object was to have those hundred heads identical,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and though,</span>
   <span id="f000458">I dare say,</span>
   <span id="f000459">people think them;</span>
   <span id="f000460">so,</span>
   <span id="f000461">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000462">upon closely scanning an uncut impression from the plate,</span>
   <span id="f000463">no two of those five-score faces,</span>
   <span id="f000464">side by side,</span>
   <span id="f000465">will be found alike.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Gravity is the air of all;</span>
   <span id="f000467">but,</span>
   <span id="f000468">diversified in all.</span>
   <span id="f000469">In some,</span>
   <span id="f000470">benevolent;</span>
   <span id="f000471">in some,</span>
   <span id="f000472">ambiguous;</span>
   <span id="f000473">in two or three,</span>
   <span id="f000474">to a close scrutiny,</span>
   <span id="f000475">all but incipiently malign,</span>
   <span id="f000476">the variation of less than a hair’s breadth in the linear shadings round the mouth sufficing to all this.</span>
   <span id="f000477">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000478">Excellenza,</span>
   <span id="f000479">transmute that general gravity into joyousness,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and subject it to twelve of those variations I have described,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000482">will you not have my hours here,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and Una one of them?</span>
   <span id="f000484">But I like – .”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000486">is that – a footfall above?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“Mortar,</span>
   <span id="f000488">Excellenza;</span>
   <span id="f000489">sometimes it drops to the belfry-floor from the arch where the stonework was left undressed.</span>
   <span id="f000490">I must have it seen to.</span>
   <span id="f000491">As I was about to say:</span>
   <span id="f000492">for one,</span>
   <span id="f000493">I like this law forbidding duplicates.</span>
   <span id="f000494">It evokes fine personalities.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000496">Excellenza,</span>
   <span id="f000497">that strange,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and – to you – uncertain smile,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and those fore-looking eyes of Una,</span>
   <span id="f000500">suit Bannadonna very well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">“Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000502">– sure we left no soul above?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">“No soul,</span>
   <span id="f000504">Excellenza;</span>
   <span id="f000505">rest assured,</span>
   <span id="f000506">no <em>soul</em> – Again the mortar.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">“It fell not while we were there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000508">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000509">in your presence,</span>
   <span id="f000510">it better knew its place,</span>
   <span id="f000511">Excellenza,” blandly bowed Bannadonna.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000513">Una,” said the milder magistrate,</span>
   <span id="f000514">“she seemed intently gazing on you;</span>
   <span id="f000515">one would have almost sworn that she picked you out from among us three.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">“If she did,</span>
   <span id="f000517">possibly,</span>
   <span id="f000518">it might have been her finer apprehension,</span>
   <span id="f000519">Excellenza.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">“How,</span>
   <span id="f000521">Bannadonna?</span>
   <span id="f000522">I do not understand you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“No consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000524">no consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000525">Excellenza – but the shifted wind is blowing through the slit.</span>
   <span id="f000526">Suffer me to escort you on;</span>
   <span id="f000527">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000528">pardon,</span>
   <span id="f000529">but the toiler must to his tools.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">“It may be foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000531">Signor,” said the milder magistrate,</span>
   <span id="f000532">as,</span>
   <span id="f000533">from the third landing,</span>
   <span id="f000534">the two now went down unescorted,</span>
   <span id="f000535">“but,</span>
   <span id="f000536">somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000537">our great mechanician moves me strangely.</span>
   <span id="f000538">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000539">just now,</span>
   <span id="f000540">when he so superciliously replied,</span>
   <span id="f000541">his walk seemed Sisera’s,</span>
   <span id="f000542">God’s vain foe,</span>
   <span id="f000543">in Del Fonca’s painting.</span>
   <span id="f000544">And that young,</span>
   <span id="f000545">sculptured Deborah,</span>
   <span id="f000546">too.</span>
   <span id="f000547">Ay,</span>
   <span id="f000548">and that – .”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“Tush,</span>
   <span id="f000550">tush,</span>
   <span id="f000551">Signor!” returned the chief.</span>
   <span id="f000552">“A passing whim.</span>
   <span id="f000553">Deborah?</span>
   <span id="f000554">– Where’s Jael,</span>
   <span id="f000555">pray?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">“Ah,” said the other,</span>
   <span id="f000557">as they now stepped upon the sod,</span>
   <span id="f000558">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000559">Signor,</span>
   <span id="f000560">I see you leave your fears behind you with the chill and gloom;</span>
   <span id="f000561">but mine,</span>
   <span id="f000562">even in this sunny air,</span>
   <span id="f000563">remain,</span>
   <span id="f000564">Hark!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">It was a sound from just within the tower door,</span>
   <span id="f000566">whence they had emerged.</span>
   <span id="f000567">Turning,</span>
   <span id="f000568">they saw it closed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000569">“He has slipped down and barred us out,” smiled the chief;</span>
   <span id="f000570">“but it is his custom.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000571">Proclamation was now made,</span>
   <span id="f000572">that the next day,</span>
   <span id="f000573">at one hour after meridian,</span>
   <span id="f000574">the clock would strike,</span>
   <span id="f000575">and – thanks to the mechanician’s powerful art – with unusual accompaniments.</span>
   <span id="f000576">But what those should be,</span>
   <span id="f000577">none as yet could say.</span>
   <span id="f000578">The announcement was received with cheers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">By the looser sort,</span>
   <span id="f000580">who encamped about the tower all night,</span>
   <span id="f000581">lights were seen gleaming through the topmost blind-work,</span>
   <span id="f000582">only disappearing with the morning sun.</span>
   <span id="f000583">Strange sounds,</span>
   <span id="f000584">too,</span>
   <span id="f000585">were heard,</span>
   <span id="f000586">or were thought to be,</span>
   <span id="f000587">by those whom anxious watching might not have left mentally undisturbed – sounds,</span>
   <span id="f000588">not only of some ringing implement,</span>
   <span id="f000589">but also – so they said – half-suppressed screams and plainings,</span>
   <span id="f000590">such as might have issued from some ghostly engine,</span>
   <span id="f000591">overplied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">Slowly the day drew on;</span>
   <span id="f000593">part of the concourse chasing the weary time with songs and games,</span>
   <span id="f000594">till,</span>
   <span id="f000595">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000596">the great blurred sun rolled,</span>
   <span id="f000597">like a football,</span>
   <span id="f000598">against the plain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000599">At noon,</span>
   <span id="f000600">the nobility and principal citizens came from the town in cavalcade,</span>
   <span id="f000601">a guard of soldiers,</span>
   <span id="f000602">also,</span>
   <span id="f000603">with music,</span>
   <span id="f000604">the more to honor the occasion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">Only one hour more.</span>
   <span id="f000606">Impatience grew.</span>
   <span id="f000607">Watches were held in hands of feverish men,</span>
   <span id="f000608">who stood,</span>
   <span id="f000609">now scrutinizing their small dial-plates,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000611">with neck thrown back,</span>
   <span id="f000612">gazing toward the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000613">as if the eye might foretell that which could only be made sensible to the ear;</span>
   <span id="f000614">for,</span>
   <span id="f000615">as yet,</span>
   <span id="f000616">there was no dial to the tower-clock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">The hour hands of a thousand watches now verged within a hair’s breadth of the figure 1.</span>
   <span id="f000618">A silence,</span>
   <span id="f000619">as of the expectation of some Shiloh,</span>
   <span id="f000620">pervaded the swarming plain.</span>
   <span id="f000621">Suddenly a dull,</span>
   <span id="f000622">mangled sound – naught ringing in it;</span>
   <span id="f000623">scarcely audible,</span>
   <span id="f000624">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000625">to the outer circles of the people – that dull sound dropped heavily from the belfry.</span>
   <span id="f000626">At the same moment,</span>
   <span id="f000627">each man stared at his neighbor blankly.</span>
   <span id="f000628">All watches were upheld.</span>
   <span id="f000629">All hour-hands were at – had passed – the figure 1.</span>
   <span id="f000630">No bell-stroke from the tower.</span>
   <span id="f000631">The multitude became tumultuous.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000632">Waiting a few moments,</span>
   <span id="f000633">the chief magistrate,</span>
   <span id="f000634">commanding silence,</span>
   <span id="f000635">hailed the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000636">to know what thing unforeseen had happened there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000637">No response.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">He hailed again and yet again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">All continued hushed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">By his order,</span>
   <span id="f000641">the soldiers burst in the tower-door;</span>
   <span id="f000642">when,</span>
   <span id="f000643">stationing guards to defend it from the now surging mob,</span>
   <span id="f000644">the chief,</span>
   <span id="f000645">accompanied by his former associate,</span>
   <span id="f000646">climbed the winding stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000647">Half-way up,</span>
   <span id="f000648">they stopped to listen.</span>
   <span id="f000649">No sound.</span>
   <span id="f000650">Mounting faster,</span>
   <span id="f000651">they reached the belfry;</span>
   <span id="f000652">but,</span>
   <span id="f000653">at the threshold,</span>
   <span id="f000654">started at the spectacle disclosed.</span>
   <span id="f000655">A spaniel,</span>
   <span id="f000656">which,</span>
   <span id="f000657">unbeknown to them,</span>
   <span id="f000658">had followed them thus far,</span>
   <span id="f000659">stood shivering as before some unknown monster in a brake:</span>
   <span id="f000660">or,</span>
   <span id="f000661">rather,</span>
   <span id="f000662">as if it snuffed footsteps leading to some other world.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000663">Bannadonna lay,</span>
   <span id="f000664">prostrate and bleeding,</span>
   <span id="f000665">at the base of the bell which was adorned with girls and garlands.</span>
   <span id="f000666">He lay at the feet of the hour Una;</span>
   <span id="f000667">his head coinciding,</span>
   <span id="f000668">in a vertical line,</span>
   <span id="f000669">with her left hand,</span>
   <span id="f000670">clasped by the hour Dua.</span>
   <span id="f000671">With downcast face impending over him,</span>
   <span id="f000672">like Jael over nailed Sisera in the tent,</span>
   <span id="f000673">was the domino;</span>
   <span id="f000674">now no more becloaked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">It had limbs,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and seemed clad in a scaly mail,</span>
   <span id="f000677">lustrous as a dragon-beetle’s.</span>
   <span id="f000678">It was manacled,</span>
   <span id="f000679">and its clubbed arms were uplifted,</span>
   <span id="f000680">as if,</span>
   <span id="f000681">with its manacles,</span>
   <span id="f000682">once more to smite its already smitten victim.</span>
   <span id="f000683">One advanced foot of it was inserted beneath the dead body,</span>
   <span id="f000684">as if in the act of spurning it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">Uncertainty falls on what now followed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">It were but natural to suppose that the magistrates would,</span>
   <span id="f000687">at first,</span>
   <span id="f000688">shrink from immediate personal contact with what they saw.</span>
   <span id="f000689">At the least,</span>
   <span id="f000690">for a time,</span>
   <span id="f000691">they would stand in involuntary doubt;</span>
   <span id="f000692">it may be,</span>
   <span id="f000693">in more or less of horrified alarm.</span>
   <span id="f000694">Certain it is,</span>
   <span id="f000695">that an arquebuss was called for from below.</span>
   <span id="f000696">And some add,</span>
   <span id="f000697">that its report,</span>
   <span id="f000698">followed by a fierce whiz,</span>
   <span id="f000699">as of the sudden snapping of a main-spring,</span>
   <span id="f000700">with a steely din,</span>
   <span id="f000701">as if a stack of sword-blades should be dashed upon a pavement,</span>
   <span id="f000702">these blended sounds came ringing to the plain,</span>
   <span id="f000703">attracting every eye far upward to the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000704">whence,</span>
   <span id="f000705">through the lattice-work,</span>
   <span id="f000706">thin wreaths of smoke were curling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">Some averred that it was the spaniel,</span>
   <span id="f000708">gone mad by fear,</span>
   <span id="f000709">which was shot.</span>
   <span id="f000710">This,</span>
   <span id="f000711">others denied.</span>
   <span id="f000712">True it was,</span>
   <span id="f000713">the spaniel never more was seen;</span>
   <span id="f000714">and,</span>
   <span id="f000715">probably,</span>
   <span id="f000716">for some unknown reason,</span>
   <span id="f000717">it shared the burial now to be related of the domino.</span>
   <span id="f000718">For,</span>
   <span id="f000719">whatever the preceding circumstances may have been,</span>
   <span id="f000720">the first instinctive panic over,</span>
   <span id="f000721">or else all ground of reasonable fear removed,</span>
   <span id="f000722">the two magistrates,</span>
   <span id="f000723">by themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000724">quickly rehooded the figure in the dropped cloak wherein it had been hoisted.</span>
   <span id="f000725">The same night,</span>
   <span id="f000726">it was secretly lowered to the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000727">smuggled to the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000728">pulled far out to sea,</span>
   <span id="f000729">and sunk.</span>
   <span id="f000730">Nor to any after urgency,</span>
   <span id="f000731">even in free convivial hours,</span>
   <span id="f000732">would the twain ever disclose the full secrets of the belfry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">From the mystery unavoidably investing it,</span>
   <span id="f000734">the popular solution of the foundling’s fate involved more or less of supernatural agency.</span>
   <span id="f000735">But some few less unscientific minds pretended to find little difficulty in otherwise accounting for it.</span>
   <span id="f000736">In the chain of circumstantial inferences drawn,</span>
   <span id="f000737">there may,</span>
   <span id="f000738">or may not,</span>
   <span id="f000739">have been some absent or defective links.</span>
   <span id="f000740">But,</span>
   <span id="f000741">as the explanation in question is the only one which tradition has explicitly preserved,</span>
   <span id="f000742">in dearth of better,</span>
   <span id="f000743">it will here be given.</span>
   <span id="f000744">But,</span>
   <span id="f000745">in the first place,</span>
   <span id="f000746">it is requisite to present the supposition entertained as to the entire motive and mode,</span>
   <span id="f000747">with their origin,</span>
   <span id="f000748">of the secret design of Bannadonna;</span>
   <span id="f000749">the minds above-mentioned assuming to penetrate as well into his soul as into the event.</span>
   <span id="f000750">The disclosure will indirectly involve reference to peculiar matters,</span>
   <span id="f000751">none of,</span>
   <span id="f000752">the clearest,</span>
   <span id="f000753">beyond the immediate subject.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">At that period,</span>
   <span id="f000755">no large bell was made to sound otherwise than as at present,</span>
   <span id="f000756">by agitation of a tongue within,</span>
   <span id="f000757">by means of ropes,</span>
   <span id="f000758">or percussion from without,</span>
   <span id="f000759">either from cumbrous machinery,</span>
   <span id="f000760">or stalwart watchmen,</span>
   <span id="f000761">armed with heavy hammers,</span>
   <span id="f000762">stationed in the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000763">or in sentry-boxes on the open roof,</span>
   <span id="f000764">according as the bell was sheltered or exposed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">It was from observing these exposed bells,</span>
   <span id="f000766">with their watchmen,</span>
   <span id="f000767">that the foundling,</span>
   <span id="f000768">as was opined,</span>
   <span id="f000769">derived the first suggestion of his scheme.</span>
   <span id="f000770">Perched on a great mast or spire,</span>
   <span id="f000771">the human figure,</span>
   <span id="f000772">viewed from below,</span>
   <span id="f000773">undergoes such a reduction in its apparent size,</span>
   <span id="f000774">as to obliterate its intelligent features.</span>
   <span id="f000775">It evinces no personality.</span>
   <span id="f000776">Instead of bespeaking volition,</span>
   <span id="f000777">its gestures rather resemble the automatic ones of the arms of a telegraph.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">Musing,</span>
   <span id="f000779">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000780">upon the purely Punchinello aspect of the human figure thus beheld,</span>
   <span id="f000781">it had indirectly occurred to Bannadonna to devise some metallic agent,</span>
   <span id="f000782">which should strike the hour with its mechanic hand,</span>
   <span id="f000783">with even greater precision than the vital one.</span>
   <span id="f000784">And,</span>
   <span id="f000785">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000786">as the vital watchman on the roof,</span>
   <span id="f000787">sallying from his retreat at the given periods,</span>
   <span id="f000788">walked to the bell with uplifted mace,</span>
   <span id="f000789">to smite it,</span>
   <span id="f000790">Bannadonna had resolved that his invention should likewise possess the power of locomotion,</span>
   <span id="f000791">and,</span>
   <span id="f000792">along with that,</span>
   <span id="f000793">the appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000794">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000795">of intelligence and will.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">If the conjectures of those who claimed acquaintance with the intent of Bannadonna be thus far correct,</span>
   <span id="f000797">no unenterprising spirit could have been his.</span>
   <span id="f000798">But they stopped not here;</span>
   <span id="f000799">intimating that though,</span>
   <span id="f000800">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000801">his design had,</span>
   <span id="f000802">in the first place,</span>
   <span id="f000803">been prompted by the sight of the watchman,</span>
   <span id="f000804">and confined to the devising of a subtle substitute for him:</span>
   <span id="f000805">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000806">as is not seldom the case with projectors,</span>
   <span id="f000807">by insensible gradations,</span>
   <span id="f000808">proceeding from comparatively pigmy aims to Titanic ones,</span>
   <span id="f000809">the original scheme had,</span>
   <span id="f000810">in its anticipated eventualities,</span>
   <span id="f000811">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000812">attained to an unheard of degree of daring.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">He still bent his efforts upon the locomotive figure for the belfry,</span>
   <span id="f000814">but only as a partial type of an ulterior creature,</span>
   <span id="f000815">a sort of elephantine Helot,</span>
   <span id="f000816">adapted to further,</span>
   <span id="f000817">in a degree scarcely to be imagined,</span>
   <span id="f000818">the universal conveniences and glories of humanity;</span>
   <span id="f000819">supplying nothing less than a supplement to the Six Days’ Work;</span>
   <span id="f000820">stocking the earth with a new serf,</span>
   <span id="f000821">more useful than the ox,</span>
   <span id="f000822">swifter than the dolphin,</span>
   <span id="f000823">stronger than the lion,</span>
   <span id="f000824">more cunning than the ape,</span>
   <span id="f000825">for industry an ant,</span>
   <span id="f000826">more fiery than serpents,</span>
   <span id="f000827">and yet,</span>
   <span id="f000828">in patience,</span>
   <span id="f000829">another ass.</span>
   <span id="f000830">All excellences of all God-made creatures,</span>
   <span id="f000831">which served man,</span>
   <span id="f000832">were here to receive advancement,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and then to be combined in one.</span>
   <span id="f000834">Talus was to have been the all-accomplished Helot’s name.</span>
   <span id="f000835">Talus,</span>
   <span id="f000836">iron slave to Bannadonna,</span>
   <span id="f000837">and,</span>
   <span id="f000838">through him,</span>
   <span id="f000839">to man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000840">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000841">it might well be thought that,</span>
   <span id="f000842">were these last conjectures as to the foundling’s secrets not erroneous,</span>
   <span id="f000843">then must he have been hopelessly infected with the craziest chimeras of his age;</span>
   <span id="f000844">far outgoing Albert Magus and Cornelius Agrippa.</span>
   <span id="f000845">But the contrary was averred.</span>
   <span id="f000846">However marvelous his design,</span>
   <span id="f000847">however apparently transcending not alone the bounds of human invention,</span>
   <span id="f000848">but those of divine creation,</span>
   <span id="f000849">yet the proposed means to be employed were alleged to have been confined within the sober forms of sober reason.</span>
   <span id="f000850">It was affirmed that,</span>
   <span id="f000851">to a degree of more than skeptic scorn,</span>
   <span id="f000852">Bannadonna had been without sympathy for any of the vain-glorious irrationalities of his time.</span>
   <span id="f000853">For example,</span>
   <span id="f000854">he had not concluded,</span>
   <span id="f000855">with the visionaries among the metaphysicians,</span>
   <span id="f000856">that between the finer mechanic forces and the ruder animal vitality some germ of correspondence might prove discoverable.</span>
   <span id="f000857">As little did his scheme partake of the enthusiasm of some natural philosophers,</span>
   <span id="f000858">who hoped,</span>
   <span id="f000859">by physiological and chemical inductions,</span>
   <span id="f000860">to arrive at a knowledge of the source of life,</span>
   <span id="f000861">and so qualify themselves to manufacture and improve upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000862">Much less had he aught in common with the tribe of alchemists,</span>
   <span id="f000863">who sought,</span>
   <span id="f000864">by a species of incantations,</span>
   <span id="f000865">to evoke some surprising vitality from the laboratory.</span>
   <span id="f000866">Neither had he imagined,</span>
   <span id="f000867">with certain sanguine theosophists,</span>
   <span id="f000868">that,</span>
   <span id="f000869">by faithful adoration of the Highest,</span>
   <span id="f000870">unheard-of powers would be vouchsafed to man.</span>
   <span id="f000871">A practical materialist,</span>
   <span id="f000872">what Bannadonna had aimed at was to have been reached,</span>
   <span id="f000873">not by logic,</span>
   <span id="f000874">not by crucible,</span>
   <span id="f000875">not by conjuration,</span>
   <span id="f000876">not by altars;</span>
   <span id="f000877">but by plain vice-bench and hammer.</span>
   <span id="f000878">In short,</span>
   <span id="f000879">to solve nature,</span>
   <span id="f000880">to steal into her,</span>
   <span id="f000881">to intrigue beyond her,</span>
   <span id="f000882">to procure some one else to bind her to his hand;</span>
   <span id="f000883">– these,</span>
   <span id="f000884">one and all,</span>
   <span id="f000885">had not been his objects;</span>
   <span id="f000886">but,</span>
   <span id="f000887">asking no favors from any element or any being,</span>
   <span id="f000888">of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000889">to rival her,</span>
   <span id="f000890">outstrip her,</span>
   <span id="f000891">and rule her.</span>
   <span id="f000892">He stooped to conquer.</span>
   <span id="f000893">With him,</span>
   <span id="f000894">common sense was theurgy;</span>
   <span id="f000895">machinery,</span>
   <span id="f000896">miracle;</span>
   <span id="f000897">Prometheus,</span>
   <span id="f000898">the heroic name for machinist;</span>
   <span id="f000899">man,</span>
   <span id="f000900">the true God.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000901">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000902">in his initial step,</span>
   <span id="f000903">so far as the experimental automaton for the belfry was concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000904">he allowed fancy some little play;</span>
   <span id="f000905">or,</span>
   <span id="f000906">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000907">what seemed his fancifulness was but his utilitarian ambition collaterally extended.</span>
   <span id="f000908">In figure,</span>
   <span id="f000909">the creature for the belfry should not be likened after the human pattern,</span>
   <span id="f000910">nor any animal one,</span>
   <span id="f000911">nor after the ideals,</span>
   <span id="f000912">however wild,</span>
   <span id="f000913">of ancient fable,</span>
   <span id="f000914">but equally in aspect as in organism be an original production;</span>
   <span id="f000915">the more terrible to behold,</span>
   <span id="f000916">the better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">Such,</span>
   <span id="f000918">then,</span>
   <span id="f000919">were the suppositions as to the present scheme,</span>
   <span id="f000920">and the reserved intent.</span>
   <span id="f000921">How,</span>
   <span id="f000922">at the very threshold,</span>
   <span id="f000923">so unlooked for a catastrophe overturned all,</span>
   <span id="f000924">or rather,</span>
   <span id="f000925">what was the conjecture here,</span>
   <span id="f000926">is now to be set forth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000927">It was thought that on the day preceding the fatality,</span>
   <span id="f000928">his visitors having left him,</span>
   <span id="f000929">Bannadonna had unpacked the belfry image,</span>
   <span id="f000930">adjusted it,</span>
   <span id="f000931">and placed it in the retreat provided – a sort of sentry-box in one corner of the belfry;</span>
   <span id="f000932">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000933">throughout the night,</span>
   <span id="f000934">and for some part of the ensuing morning,</span>
   <span id="f000935">he had been engaged in arranging everything connected with the domino;</span>
   <span id="f000936">the issuing from the sentry-box each sixty minutes;</span>
   <span id="f000937">sliding along a grooved way,</span>
   <span id="f000938">like a railway;</span>
   <span id="f000939">advancing to the clock-bell,</span>
   <span id="f000940">with uplifted manacles;</span>
   <span id="f000941">striking it at one of the twelve junctions of the four-and-twenty hands;</span>
   <span id="f000942">then wheeling,</span>
   <span id="f000943">circling the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000944">and retiring to its post,</span>
   <span id="f000945">there to bide for another sixty minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000946">when the same process was to be repeated;</span>
   <span id="f000947">the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000948">by a cunning mechanism,</span>
   <span id="f000949">meantime turning on its vertical axis,</span>
   <span id="f000950">so as to present,</span>
   <span id="f000951">to the descending mace,</span>
   <span id="f000952">the clasped hands of the next two figures,</span>
   <span id="f000953">when it would strike two,</span>
   <span id="f000954">three,</span>
   <span id="f000955">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000956">to the end.</span>
   <span id="f000957">The musical metal in this time-bell being so managed in the fusion,</span>
   <span id="f000958">by some art,</span>
   <span id="f000959">perishing with its originator,</span>
   <span id="f000960">that each of the clasps of the four-and-twenty hands should give forth its own peculiar resonance when parted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000961">But on the magic metal,</span>
   <span id="f000962">the magic and metallic stranger never struck but that one stroke,</span>
   <span id="f000963">drove but that one nail,</span>
   <span id="f000964">served but that one clasp,</span>
   <span id="f000965">by which Bannadonna clung to his ambitious life.</span>
   <span id="f000966">For,</span>
   <span id="f000967">after winding up the creature in the sentry-box,</span>
   <span id="f000968">so that,</span>
   <span id="f000969">for the present,</span>
   <span id="f000970">skipping the intervening hours,</span>
   <span id="f000971">it should not emerge till the hour of one,</span>
   <span id="f000972">but should then infallibly emerge,</span>
   <span id="f000973">and,</span>
   <span id="f000974">after deftly oiling the grooves whereon it was to slide,</span>
   <span id="f000975">it was surmised that the mechanician must then have hurried to the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000976">to give his final touches to its sculpture.</span>
   <span id="f000977">True artist,</span>
   <span id="f000978">he here became absorbed;</span>
   <span id="f000979">and absorption still further intensified,</span>
   <span id="f000980">it may be,</span>
   <span id="f000981">by his striving to abate that strange look of Una;</span>
   <span id="f000982">which,</span>
   <span id="f000983">though,</span>
   <span id="f000984">before others,</span>
   <span id="f000985">he had treated with such unconcern,</span>
   <span id="f000986">might not,</span>
   <span id="f000987">in secret,</span>
   <span id="f000988">have been without its thorn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000989">And so,</span>
   <span id="f000990">for the interval,</span>
   <span id="f000991">he was oblivious of his creature;</span>
   <span id="f000992">which,</span>
   <span id="f000993">not oblivious of him,</span>
   <span id="f000994">and true to its creation,</span>
   <span id="f000995">and true to its heedful winding up,</span>
   <span id="f000996">left its post precisely at the given moment;</span>
   <span id="f000997">along its well-oiled route,</span>
   <span id="f000998">slid noiselessly towards its mark;</span>
   <span id="f000999">and,</span>
   <span id="f001000">aiming at the hand of Una,</span>
   <span id="f001001">to ring one clangorous note,</span>
   <span id="f001002">dully smote the intervening brain of Bannadonna,</span>
   <span id="f001003">turned backwards to it;</span>
   <span id="f001004">the manacled arms then instantly up-springing to their hovering poise.</span>
   <span id="f001005">The falling body clogged the thing’s return;</span>
   <span id="f001006">so there it stood,</span>
   <span id="f001007">still impending over Bannadonna,</span>
   <span id="f001008">as if whispering some post-mortem terror.</span>
   <span id="f001009">The chisel lay dropped from the hand,</span>
   <span id="f001010">but beside the hand;</span>
   <span id="f001011">the oil-flask spilled across the iron track.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001012">In his unhappy end,</span>
   <span id="f001013">not unmindful of the rare genius of the mechanician,</span>
   <span id="f001014">the republic decreed him a stately funeral.</span>
   <span id="f001015">It was resolved that the great bell – the one whose casting had been jeopardized through the timidity of the ill-starred workman – should be rung upon the entrance of the bier into the cathedral.</span>
   <span id="f001016">The most robust man of the country round was assigned the office of bell-ringer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001017">But as the pall-bearers entered the cathedral porch,</span>
   <span id="f001018">naught but a broken and disastrous sound,</span>
   <span id="f001019">like that of some lone Alpine land-slide,</span>
   <span id="f001020">fell from the tower upon their ears.</span>
   <span id="f001021">And then,</span>
   <span id="f001022">all was hushed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001023">Glancing backwards,</span>
   <span id="f001024">they saw the groined belfry crashed sideways in.</span>
   <span id="f001025">It afterwards appeared that the powerful peasant,</span>
   <span id="f001026">who had the bell-rope in charge,</span>
   <span id="f001027">wishing to test at once the full glory of the bell,</span>
   <span id="f001028">had swayed down upon the rope with one concentrate jerk.</span>
   <span id="f001029">The mass of quaking metal,</span>
   <span id="f001030">too ponderous for its frame,</span>
   <span id="f001031">and strangely feeble somewhere at its top,</span>
   <span id="f001032">loosed from its fastening,</span>
   <span id="f001033">tore sideways down,</span>
   <span id="f001034">and tumbling in one sheer fall,</span>
   <span id="f001035">three hundred feet to the soft sward below,</span>
   <span id="f001036">buried itself inverted and half out of sight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001037">Upon its disinterment,</span>
   <span id="f001038">the main fracture was found to have started from a small spot in the ear;</span>
   <span id="f001039">which,</span>
   <span id="f001040">being scraped,</span>
   <span id="f001041">revealed a defect,</span>
   <span id="f001042">deceptively minute in the casting;</span>
   <span id="f001043">which defect must subsequently have been pasted over with some unknown compound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001044">The remolten metal soon reassumed its place in the tower’s repaired superstructure.</span>
   <span id="f001045">For one year the metallic choir of birds sang musically in its belfry-bough-work of sculptured blinds and traceries.</span>
   <span id="f001046">But on the first anniversary of the tower’s completion – at early dawn,</span>
   <span id="f001047">before the concourse had surrounded it – an earthquake came;</span>
   <span id="f001048">one loud crash was heard.</span>
   <span id="f001049">The stone-pine,</span>
   <span id="f001050">with all its bower of songsters,</span>
   <span id="f001051">lay overthrown upon the plain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001052">So the blind slave obeyed its blinder lord;</span>
   <span id="f001053">but,</span>
   <span id="f001054">in obedience,</span>
   <span id="f001055">slew him.</span>
   <span id="f001056">So the creator was killed by the creature.</span>
   <span id="f001057">So the bell was too heavy for the tower.</span>
   <span id="f001058">So the bell’s main weakness was where man’s blood had flawed it.</span>
   <span id="f001059">And so pride went before the fall.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

