<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />S. Houghton</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Nathaniel Hawthorne</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">That very singular man,</span>
   <span id="f000008">old Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000009">once invited four venerable friends to meet him in his study.</span>
   <span id="f000010">There were three white-bearded gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000011">Mr.&#160;Medbourne,</span>
   <span id="f000012">Colonel Killigrew,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and Mr.&#160;Gascoigne,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and a withered gentlewoman,</span>
   <span id="f000015">whose name was the Widow Wycherly.</span>
   <span id="f000016">They were all melancholy old creatures,</span>
   <span id="f000017">who had been unfortunate in life,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and whose greatest misfortune it was that they were not long ago in their graves.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Mr.&#160;Medbourne,</span>
   <span id="f000020">in the vigor of his age,</span>
   <span id="f000021">had been a prosperous merchant,</span>
   <span id="f000022">but had lost his all by a frantic speculation,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and was now little better than a mendicant.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Colonel Killigrew had wasted his best years,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and his health and substance,</span>
   <span id="f000026">in the pursuit of sinful pleasures,</span>
   <span id="f000027">which had given birth to a brood of pains,</span>
   <span id="f000028">such as the gout,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and divers other torments of soul and body.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Mr.&#160;Gascoigne was a ruined politician,</span>
   <span id="f000031">a man of evil fame,</span>
   <span id="f000032">or at least had been so till time had buried him from the knowledge of the present generation,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and made him obscure instead of infamous.</span>
   <span id="f000034">As for the Widow Wycherly,</span>
   <span id="f000035">tradition tells us that she was a great beauty in her day;</span>
   <span id="f000036">but,</span>
   <span id="f000037">for a long while past,</span>
   <span id="f000038">she had lived in deep seclusion,</span>
   <span id="f000039">on account of certain scandalous stories which had prejudiced the gentry of the town against her.</span>
   <span id="f000040">It is a circumstance worth mentioning that each of these three old gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000041">Mr.&#160;Medbourne,</span>
   <span id="f000042">Colonel Killigrew,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and Mr.&#160;Gascoigne,</span>
   <span id="f000044">were early lovers of the Widow Wycherly,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and had once been on the point of cutting each other’s throats for her sake.</span>
   <span id="f000046">And,</span>
   <span id="f000047">before proceeding further,</span>
   <span id="f000048">I will merely hint that Dr.&#160;Heidegger and all his foul guests were sometimes thought to be a little beside themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000049">– as is not unfrequently the case with old people,</span>
   <span id="f000050">when worried either by present troubles or woful recollections.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“My dear old friends,” said Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000052">motioning them to be seated,</span>
   <span id="f000053">“I am desirous of your assistance in one of those little experiments with which I amuse myself here in my study.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">If all stories were true,</span>
   <span id="f000055">Dr.&#160;Heidegger’s study must have been a very curious place.</span>
   <span id="f000056">It was a dim,</span>
   <span id="f000057">old-fashioned chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000058">festooned with cobwebs,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and besprinkled with antique dust.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Around the walls stood several oaken bookcases,</span>
   <span id="f000061">the lower shelves of which were filled with rows of gigantic folios and black-letter quartos,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and the upper with little parchment-covered duodecimos.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Over the central bookcase was a bronze bust of Hippocrates,</span>
   <span id="f000064">with which,</span>
   <span id="f000065">according to some authorities,</span>
   <span id="f000066">Dr.&#160;Heidegger was accustomed to hold consultations in all difficult cases of his practice.</span>
   <span id="f000067">In the obscurest corner of the room stood a tall and narrow oaken closet,</span>
   <span id="f000068">with its door ajar,</span>
   <span id="f000069">within which doubtfully appeared a skeleton.</span>
   <span id="f000070">Between two of the bookcases hung a looking-glass,</span>
   <span id="f000071">presenting its high and dusty plate within a tarnished gilt frame.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Among many wonderful stories related of this mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000073">it was fabled that the spirits of all the doctor’s deceased patients dwelt within its verge,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and would stare him in the face whenever he looked thitherward.</span>
   <span id="f000075">The opposite side of the chamber was ornamented with the full-length portrait of a young lady,</span>
   <span id="f000076">arrayed in the faded magnificence of silk,</span>
   <span id="f000077">satin,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and brocade,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and with a visage as faded as her dress.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Above half a century ago,</span>
   <span id="f000081">Dr.&#160;Heidegger had been on the point of marriage with this young lady;</span>
   <span id="f000082">but,</span>
   <span id="f000083">being affected with some slight disorder,</span>
   <span id="f000084">she had swallowed one of her lover’s prescriptions,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and died on the bridal evening.</span>
   <span id="f000086">The greatest curiosity of the study remains to be mentioned;</span>
   <span id="f000087">it was a ponderous folio volume,</span>
   <span id="f000088">bound in black leather,</span>
   <span id="f000089">with massive silver clasps.</span>
   <span id="f000090">There were no letters on the back,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and nobody could tell the title of the book.</span>
   <span id="f000092">But it was well known to be a book of magic;</span>
   <span id="f000093">and once,</span>
   <span id="f000094">when a chambermaid had lifted it,</span>
   <span id="f000095">merely to brush away the dust,</span>
   <span id="f000096">the skeleton had rattled in its closet,</span>
   <span id="f000097">the picture of the young lady had stepped one foot upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and several ghastly faces had peeped forth from the mirror;</span>
   <span id="f000099">while the brazen head of Hippocrates frowned,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000101">– “Forbear!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">Such was Dr.&#160;Heidegger’s study.</span>
   <span id="f000103">On the summer afternoon of our tale a small round table,</span>
   <span id="f000104">as black as ebony,</span>
   <span id="f000105">stood in the centre of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000106">sustaining a cut-glass vase of beautiful form and elaborate workmanship.</span>
   <span id="f000107">The sunshine came through the window,</span>
   <span id="f000108">between the heavy festoons of two faded damask curtains,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and fell directly across this vase;</span>
   <span id="f000110">so that a mild splendor was reflected from it on the ashen visages of the five old people who sat around.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Four champagne glasses were also on the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“My dear old friends,” repeated Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000113">“may I reckon on your aid in performing an exceedingly curious experiment?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">Now Dr.&#160;Heidegger was a very strange old gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000115">whose eccentricity had become the nucleus for a thousand fantastic stories.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Some of these fables,</span>
   <span id="f000117">to my shame be it spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000118">might possibly be traced back to my own veracious self;</span>
   <span id="f000119">and if any passages of the present tale should startle the reader’s faith,</span>
   <span id="f000120">I must be content to bear the stigma of a fiction monger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">When the doctor’s four guests heard him talk of his proposed experiment,</span>
   <span id="f000122">they anticipated nothing more wonderful than the murder of a mouse in an air pump,</span>
   <span id="f000123">or the examination of a cobweb by the microscope,</span>
   <span id="f000124">or some similar nonsense,</span>
   <span id="f000125">with which he was constantly in the habit of pestering his intimates.</span>
   <span id="f000126">But without waiting for a reply,</span>
   <span id="f000127">Dr.&#160;Heidegger hobbled across the chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and returned with the same ponderous folio,</span>
   <span id="f000129">bound in black leather,</span>
   <span id="f000130">which common report affirmed to be a book of magic.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Undoing the silver clasps,</span>
   <span id="f000132">he opened the volume,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and took from among its black-letter pages a rose,</span>
   <span id="f000134">or what was once a rose,</span>
   <span id="f000135">though now the green leaves and crimson petals had assumed one brownish hue,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and the ancient flower seemed ready to crumble to dust in the doctor’s hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“This rose,” said Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000138">with a sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000139">“this same withered and crumbling flower,</span>
   <span id="f000140">blossomed five and fifty years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000141">It was given me by Sylvia Ward,</span>
   <span id="f000142">whose portrait hangs yonder;</span>
   <span id="f000143">and I meant to wear it in my bosom at our wedding.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Five and fifty years it has been treasured between the leaves of this old volume.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000146">would you deem it possible that this rose of half a century could ever bloom again?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“Nonsense!” said the Widow Wycherly,</span>
   <span id="f000148">with a peevish toss of her head.</span>
   <span id="f000149">“You might as well ask whether an old woman’s wrinkled face could ever bloom again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“See!” answered Dr.&#160;Heidegger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">He uncovered the vase,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and threw the faded rose into the water which it contained.</span>
   <span id="f000153">At first,</span>
   <span id="f000154">it lay lightly on the surface of the fluid,</span>
   <span id="f000155">appearing to imbibe none of its moisture.</span>
   <span id="f000156">Soon,</span>
   <span id="f000157">however,</span>
   <span id="f000158">a singular change began to be visible.</span>
   <span id="f000159">The crushed and dried petals stirred,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and assumed a deepening tinge of crimson,</span>
   <span id="f000161">as if the flower were reviving from a deathlike slumber;</span>
   <span id="f000162">the slender stalk and twigs of foliage became green;</span>
   <span id="f000163">and there was the rose of half a century,</span>
   <span id="f000164">looking as fresh as when Sylvia Ward had first given it to her lover.</span>
   <span id="f000165">It was scarcely full blown;</span>
   <span id="f000166">for some of its delicate red leaves curled modestly around its moist bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000167">within which two or three dewdrops were sparkling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“That is certainly a very pretty deception,” said the doctor’s friends;</span>
   <span id="f000169">carelessly,</span>
   <span id="f000170">however,</span>
   <span id="f000171">for they had witnessed greater miracles at a conjurer’s show;</span>
   <span id="f000172">“pray how was it effected?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Did you never hear of the ’Fountain of Youth?’” asked Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000174">“which Ponce De Leon,</span>
   <span id="f000175">the Spanish adventurer,</span>
   <span id="f000176">went in search of two or three centuries ago?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“But did Ponce De Leon ever find it?” said the Widow Wycherly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“No,” answered Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000179">“for he never sought it in the right place.</span>
   <span id="f000180">The famous Fountain of Youth,</span>
   <span id="f000181">if I am rightly informed,</span>
   <span id="f000182">is situated in the southern part of the Floridian peninsula,</span>
   <span id="f000183">not far from Lake Macaco.</span>
   <span id="f000184">Its source is overshadowed by several gigantic magnolias,</span>
   <span id="f000185">which,</span>
   <span id="f000186">though numberless centuries old,</span>
   <span id="f000187">have been kept as fresh as violets by the virtues of this wonderful water.</span>
   <span id="f000188">An acquaintance of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000189">knowing my curiosity in such matters,</span>
   <span id="f000190">has sent me what you see in the vase.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“Ahem!” said Colonel Killigrew,</span>
   <span id="f000192">who believed not a word of the doctor’s story;</span>
   <span id="f000193">“and what may be the effect of this fluid on the human frame?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“You shall judge for yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000195">my dear colonel,” replied Dr.&#160;Heidegger;</span>
   <span id="f000196">“and all of you,</span>
   <span id="f000197">my respected friends,</span>
   <span id="f000198">are welcome to so much of this admirable fluid as may restore to you the bloom of youth.</span>
   <span id="f000199">For my own part,</span>
   <span id="f000200">having had much trouble in growing old,</span>
   <span id="f000201">I am in no hurry to grow young again.</span>
   <span id="f000202">With your permission,</span>
   <span id="f000203">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000204">I will merely watch the progress of the experiment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">While he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000206">Dr.&#160;Heidegger had been filling the four champagne glasses with the water of the Fountain of Youth.</span>
   <span id="f000207">It was apparently impregnated with an effervescent gas,</span>
   <span id="f000208">for little bubbles were continually ascending from the depths of the glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and bursting in silvery spray at the surface.</span>
   <span id="f000210">As the liquor diffused a pleasant perfume,</span>
   <span id="f000211">the old people doubted not that it possessed cordial and comfortable properties;</span>
   <span id="f000212">and though utter sceptics as to its rejuvenescent power,</span>
   <span id="f000213">they were inclined to swallow it at once.</span>
   <span id="f000214">But Dr.&#160;Heidegger besought them to stay a moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“Before you drink,</span>
   <span id="f000216">my respectable old friends,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000217">“it would be well that,</span>
   <span id="f000218">with the experience of a lifetime to direct you,</span>
   <span id="f000219">you should draw up a few general rules for your guidance,</span>
   <span id="f000220">in passing a second time through the perils of youth.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Think what a sin and shame it would be,</span>
   <span id="f000222">if,</span>
   <span id="f000223">with your peculiar advantages,</span>
   <span id="f000224">you should not become patterns of virtue and wisdom to all the young people of the age!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">The doctor’s four venerable friends made him no answer,</span>
   <span id="f000226">except by a feeble and tremulous laugh;</span>
   <span id="f000227">so very ridiculous was the idea that,</span>
   <span id="f000228">knowing how closely repentance treads behind the steps of error,</span>
   <span id="f000229">they should ever go astray again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">“Drink,</span>
   <span id="f000231">then,” said the doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000232">bowing:</span>
   <span id="f000233">“I rejoice that I have so well selected the subjects of my experiment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">With palsied hands,</span>
   <span id="f000235">they raised the glasses to their lips.</span>
   <span id="f000236">The liquor,</span>
   <span id="f000237">if it really possessed such virtues as Dr.&#160;Heidegger imputed to it,</span>
   <span id="f000238">could not have been bestowed on four human beings who needed it more wofully.</span>
   <span id="f000239">They looked as if they had never known what youth or pleasure was,</span>
   <span id="f000240">but had been the offspring of Nature’s dotage,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and always the gray,</span>
   <span id="f000242">decrepit,</span>
   <span id="f000243">sapless,</span>
   <span id="f000244">miserable creatures,</span>
   <span id="f000245">who now sat stooping round the doctor’s table,</span>
   <span id="f000246">without life enough in their souls or bodies to be animated even by the prospect of growing young again.</span>
   <span id="f000247">They drank off the water,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and replaced their glasses on the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">Assuredly there was an almost immediate improvement in the aspect of the party,</span>
   <span id="f000250">not unlike what might have been produced by a glass of generous wine,</span>
   <span id="f000251">together with a sudden glow of cheerful sunshine brightening over all their visages at once.</span>
   <span id="f000252">There was a healthful suffusion on their cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000253">instead of the ashen hue that had made them look so corpse-like.</span>
   <span id="f000254">They gazed at one another,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and fancied that some magic power had really begun to smooth away the deep and sad inscriptions which Father Time had been so long engraving on their brows.</span>
   <span id="f000256">The Widow Wycherly adjusted her cap,</span>
   <span id="f000257">for she felt almost like a woman again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“Give us more of this wondrous water!” cried they,</span>
   <span id="f000259">eagerly.</span>
   <span id="f000260">“We are younger – but we are still too old!</span>
   <span id="f000261">Quick – give us more!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“Patience,</span>
   <span id="f000263">patience!” quoth Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000264">who sat watching the experiment with philosophic coolness.</span>
   <span id="f000265">“You have been a long time growing old.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Surely,</span>
   <span id="f000267">you might be content to grow young in half an hour!</span>
   <span id="f000268">But the water is at your service.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">Again he filled their glasses with the liquor of youth,</span>
   <span id="f000270">enough of which still remained in the vase to turn half the old people in the city to the age of their own grandchildren.</span>
   <span id="f000271">While the bubbles were yet sparkling on the brim,</span>
   <span id="f000272">the doctor’s four guests snatched their glasses from the table,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and swallowed the contents at a single gulp.</span>
   <span id="f000274">Was it delusion?</span>
   <span id="f000275">even while the draught was passing down their throats,</span>
   <span id="f000276">it seemed to have wrought a change on their whole systems.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Their eyes grew clear and bright;</span>
   <span id="f000278">a dark shade deepened among their silvery locks,</span>
   <span id="f000279">they sat around the table,</span>
   <span id="f000280">three gentlemen of middle age,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000282">hardly beyond her buxom prime.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">“My dear widow,</span>
   <span id="f000284">you are charming!” cried Colonel Killigrew,</span>
   <span id="f000285">whose eyes had been fixed upon her face,</span>
   <span id="f000286">while the shadows of age were flitting from it like darkness from the crimson daybreak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">The fair widow knew,</span>
   <span id="f000288">of old,</span>
   <span id="f000289">that Colonel Killigrew’s compliments were not always measured by sober truth;</span>
   <span id="f000290">so she started up and ran to the mirror,</span>
   <span id="f000291">still dreading that the ugly visage of an old woman would meet her gaze.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Meanwhile,</span>
   <span id="f000293">the three gentlemen behaved in such a manner as proved that the water of the Fountain of Youth possessed some intoxicating qualities;</span>
   <span id="f000294">unless,</span>
   <span id="f000295">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000296">their exhilaration of spirits were merely a lightsome dizziness caused by the sudden removal of the weight of years.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Mr.&#160;Gascoigne’s mind seemed to run on political topics,</span>
   <span id="f000298">but whether relating to the past,</span>
   <span id="f000299">present,</span>
   <span id="f000300">or future,</span>
   <span id="f000301">could not easily be determined,</span>
   <span id="f000302">since the same ideas and phrases have been in vogue these fifty years.</span>
   <span id="f000303">Now he rattled forth full-throated sentences about patriotism,</span>
   <span id="f000304">national glory,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and the people’s right;</span>
   <span id="f000306">now he muttered some perilous stuff or other,</span>
   <span id="f000307">in a sly and doubtful whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000308">so cautiously that even his own conscience could scarcely catch the secret;</span>
   <span id="f000309">and now,</span>
   <span id="f000310">again,</span>
   <span id="f000311">he spoke in measured accents,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and a deeply deferential tone,</span>
   <span id="f000313">as if a royal ear were listening to his wellturned periods.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Colonel Killigrew all this time had been trolling forth a jolly bottle song,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and ringing his glass in symphony with the chorus,</span>
   <span id="f000316">while his eyes wandered toward the buxom figure of the Widow Wycherly.</span>
   <span id="f000317">On the other side of the table,</span>
   <span id="f000318">Mr.&#160;Medbourne was involved in a calculation of dollars and cents,</span>
   <span id="f000319">with which was strangely intermingled a project for supplying the East Indies with ice,</span>
   <span id="f000320">by harnessing a team of whales to the polar icebergs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">As for the Widow Wycherly,</span>
   <span id="f000322">she stood before the mirror courtesying and simpering to her own image,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and greeting it as the friend whom she loved better than all the world beside.</span>
   <span id="f000324">She thrust her face close to the glass,</span>
   <span id="f000325">to see whether some long-remembered wrinkle or crow’s foot had indeed vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000326">She examined whether the snow had so entirely melted from her hair that the venerable cap could be safely thrown aside.</span>
   <span id="f000327">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000328">turning briskly away,</span>
   <span id="f000329">she came with a sort of dancing step to the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“My dear old doctor,” cried she,</span>
   <span id="f000331">“pray favor me with another glass!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000333">my dear madam,</span>
   <span id="f000334">certainly!” replied the complaisant doctor;</span>
   <span id="f000335">“see!</span>
   <span id="f000336">I have already filled the glasses.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">There,</span>
   <span id="f000338">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000339">stood the four glasses,</span>
   <span id="f000340">brimful of this wonderful water,</span>
   <span id="f000341">the delicate spray of which,</span>
   <span id="f000342">as it effervesced from the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000343">resembled the tremulous glitter of diamonds.</span>
   <span id="f000344">It was now so nearly sunset that the chamber had grown duskier than ever;</span>
   <span id="f000345">but a mild and moonlike splendor gleamed from within the vase,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and rested alike on the four guests and on the doctor’s venerable figure.</span>
   <span id="f000347">He sat in a high-backed,</span>
   <span id="f000348">elaborately-carved,</span>
   <span id="f000349">oaken arm-chair,</span>
   <span id="f000350">with a gray dignity of aspect that might have well befitted that very Father Time,</span>
   <span id="f000351">whose power had never been disputed,</span>
   <span id="f000352">save by this fortunate company.</span>
   <span id="f000353">Even while quaffing the third draught of the Fountain of Youth,</span>
   <span id="f000354">they were almost awed by the expression of his mysterious visage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">But,</span>
   <span id="f000356">the next moment,</span>
   <span id="f000357">the exhilarating gush of young life shot through their veins.</span>
   <span id="f000358">They were now in the happy prime of youth.</span>
   <span id="f000359">Age,</span>
   <span id="f000360">with its miserable train of cares and sorrows and diseases,</span>
   <span id="f000361">was remembered only as the trouble of a dream,</span>
   <span id="f000362">from which they had joyously awoke.</span>
   <span id="f000363">The fresh gloss of the soul,</span>
   <span id="f000364">so early lost,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and without which the world’s successive scenes had been but a gallery of faded pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000366">again threw its enchantment over all their prospects.</span>
   <span id="f000367">They felt like new-created beings in a new-created universe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“We are young!</span>
   <span id="f000369">We are young!” they cried exultingly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">Youth,</span>
   <span id="f000371">like the extremity of age,</span>
   <span id="f000372">had effaced the strongly-marked characteristics of middle life,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and mutually assimilated them all.</span>
   <span id="f000374">They were a group of merry youngsters,</span>
   <span id="f000375">almost maddened with the exuberant frolicsomeness of their years.</span>
   <span id="f000376">The most singular effect of their gayety was an impulse to mock the infirmity and decrepitude of which they had so lately been the victims.</span>
   <span id="f000377">They laughed loudly at their old-fashioned attire,</span>
   <span id="f000378">the wide-skirted coats and flapped waistcoats of the young men,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and the ancient cap and gown of the blooming girl.</span>
   <span id="f000380">One limped across the floor like a gouty grandfather;</span>
   <span id="f000381">one set a pair of spectacles astride of his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and pretended to pore over the black-letter pages of the book of magic;</span>
   <span id="f000383">a third seated himself in an arm-chair,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and strove to imitate the venerable dignity of Dr.&#160;Heidegger.</span>
   <span id="f000385">Then all shouted mirthfully,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and leaped about the room.</span>
   <span id="f000387">The Widow Wycherly – if so fresh a damsel could be called a widow – tripped up to the doctor’s chair,</span>
   <span id="f000388">with a mischievous merriment in her rosy face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">“Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000390">you dear old soul,” cried she,</span>
   <span id="f000391">“get up and dance with me!” And then the four young people laughed louder than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000392">to think what a queer figure the poor old doctor would cut.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“Pray excuse me,” answered the doctor quietly.</span>
   <span id="f000394">“I am old and rheumatic,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and my dancing days were over long ago.</span>
   <span id="f000396">But either of these gay young gentlemen will be glad of so pretty a partner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000397">“Dance with me,</span>
   <span id="f000398">Clara!” cried Colonel Killigrew</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000400">no,</span>
   <span id="f000401">I will be her partner!” shouted Mr.&#160;Gascoigne.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">“She promised me her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000403">fifty years ago!” exclaimed Mr.&#160;Medbourne.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">They all gathered round her.</span>
   <span id="f000405">One caught both her hands in his passionate grasp another threw his arm about her waist – the third buried his hand among the glossy curls that clustered beneath the widow’s cap.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Blushing,</span>
   <span id="f000407">panting,</span>
   <span id="f000408">struggling,</span>
   <span id="f000409">chiding,</span>
   <span id="f000410">laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000411">her warm breath fanning each of their faces by turns,</span>
   <span id="f000412">she strove to disengage herself,</span>
   <span id="f000413">yet still remained in their triple embrace.</span>
   <span id="f000414">Never was there a livelier picture of youthful rivalship,</span>
   <span id="f000415">with bewitching beauty for the prize.</span>
   <span id="f000416">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000417">by a strange deception,</span>
   <span id="f000418">owing to the duskiness of the chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and the antique dresses which they still wore,</span>
   <span id="f000420">the tall mirror is said to have reflected the figures of the three old,</span>
   <span id="f000421">gray,</span>
   <span id="f000422">withered grandsires,</span>
   <span id="f000423">ridiculously contending for the skinny ugliness of a shrivelled grandam.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">But they were young:</span>
   <span id="f000425">their burning passions proved them so.</span>
   <span id="f000426">Inflamed to madness by the coquetry of the girl-widow,</span>
   <span id="f000427">who neither granted nor quite withheld her favors,</span>
   <span id="f000428">the three rivals began to interchange threatening glances.</span>
   <span id="f000429">Still keeping hold of the fair prize,</span>
   <span id="f000430">they grappled fiercely at one another’s throats.</span>
   <span id="f000431">As they struggled to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000432">the table was overturned,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and the vase dashed into a thousand fragments.</span>
   <span id="f000434">The precious Water of Youth flowed in a bright stream across the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000435">moistening the wings of a butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000436">which,</span>
   <span id="f000437">grown old in the decline of summer,</span>
   <span id="f000438">had alighted there to die.</span>
   <span id="f000439">The insect fluttered lightly through the chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and settled on the snowy head of Dr.&#160;Heidegger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000442">come,</span>
   <span id="f000443">gentlemen!</span>
   <span id="f000444">– come,</span>
   <span id="f000445">Madam Wycherly,” exclaimed the doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000446">“I really must protest against this riot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">They stood still and shivered;</span>
   <span id="f000448">for it seemed as if gray Time were calling them back from their sunny youth,</span>
   <span id="f000449">far down into the chill and darksome vale of years.</span>
   <span id="f000450">They looked at old Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000451">who sat in his carved arm-chair,</span>
   <span id="f000452">holding the rose of half a century,</span>
   <span id="f000453">which he had rescued from among the fragments of the shattered vase.</span>
   <span id="f000454">At the motion of his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000455">the four rioters resumed their seats;</span>
   <span id="f000456">the more readily,</span>
   <span id="f000457">because their violent exertions had wearied them,</span>
   <span id="f000458">youthful though they were.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“My poor Sylvia’s rose!” ejaculated Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000460">holding it in the light of the sunset clouds;</span>
   <span id="f000461">“it appears to be fading again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">And so it was.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Even while the party were looking at it,</span>
   <span id="f000464">the flower continued to shrivel up,</span>
   <span id="f000465">till it became as dry and fragile as when the doctor had first thrown it into the vase.</span>
   <span id="f000466">He shook off the few drops of moisture which clung to its petals.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“I love it as well thus as in its dewy freshness,” observed he,</span>
   <span id="f000468">pressing the withered rose to his withered lips.</span>
   <span id="f000469">While he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000470">the butterfly fluttered down from the doctor’s snowy head,</span>
   <span id="f000471">and fell upon the floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">His guests shivered again.</span>
   <span id="f000473">A strange chillness,</span>
   <span id="f000474">whether of the body or spirit they could not tell,</span>
   <span id="f000475">was creeping gradually over them all.</span>
   <span id="f000476">They gazed at one another,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and fancied that each fleeting moment snatched away a charm,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and left a deepening furrow where none had been before.</span>
   <span id="f000479">Was it an illusion?</span>
   <span id="f000480">Had the changes of a lifetime been crowded into so brief a space,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and were they now four aged people,</span>
   <span id="f000482">sitting with their old friend,</span>
   <span id="f000483">Dr.&#160;Heidegger?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“Are we grown old again,</span>
   <span id="f000485">so soon?” cried they,</span>
   <span id="f000486">dolefully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">In truth they had.</span>
   <span id="f000488">The Water of Youth possessed merely a virtue more transient than that of wine.</span>
   <span id="f000489">The delirium which it created had effervesced away.</span>
   <span id="f000490">Yes!</span>
   <span id="f000491">they were old again.</span>
   <span id="f000492">With a shuddering impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000493">that showed her a woman still,</span>
   <span id="f000494">the widow clasped her skinny hands before her face,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and wished that the coffin lid were over it,</span>
   <span id="f000496">since it could be no longer beautiful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000498">friends,</span>
   <span id="f000499">ye are old again,” said Dr.&#160;Heidegger,</span>
   <span id="f000500">“and lo!</span>
   <span id="f000501">the Water of Youth is all lavished on the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000502">Well – I bemoan it not;</span>
   <span id="f000503">for if the fountain gushed at my very doorstep,</span>
   <span id="f000504">I would not stoop to bathe my lips in it – no,</span>
   <span id="f000505">though its delirium were for years instead of moments.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Such is the lesson ye have taught me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">But the doctor’s four friends had taught no such lesson to themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000508">They resolved forthwith to make a pilgrimage to Florida,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and quaff at morning,</span>
   <span id="f000510">noon,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and night,</span>
   <span id="f000512">from the Fountain of Youth.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

