<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recorded by<br />Elise Sauer</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Ambrose Bierce</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">A man stood upon a railroad bridge in northern Alabama,</span>
   <span id="f000008">looking down into the swift water twenty feet below.</span>
   <span id="f000009">The man’s hands were behind his back,</span>
   <span id="f000010">the wrists bound with a cord.</span>
   <span id="f000011">A rope closely encircled his neck.</span>
   <span id="f000012">It was attached to a stout cross-timber above his head and the slack fell to the level of his knees.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Some loose boards laid upon the ties supporting the rails of the railway supplied a footing for him and his executioners – two private soldiers of the Federal army,</span>
   <span id="f000014">directed by a sergeant who in civil life may have been a deputy sheriff.</span>
   <span id="f000015">At a short remove upon the same temporary platform was an officer in the uniform of his rank,</span>
   <span id="f000016">armed.</span>
   <span id="f000017">He was a captain.</span>
   <span id="f000018">A sentinel at each end of the bridge stood with his rifle in the position known as “support,” that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000019">vertical in front of the left shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the hammer resting on the forearm thrown straight across the chest – a formal and unnatural position,</span>
   <span id="f000021">enforcing an erect carriage of the body.</span>
   <span id="f000022">It did not appear to be the duty of these two men to know what was occurring at the center of the bridge;</span>
   <span id="f000023">they merely blockaded the two ends of the foot planking that traversed it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">Beyond one of the sentinels nobody was in sight;</span>
   <span id="f000025">the railroad ran straight away into a forest for a hundred yards,</span>
   <span id="f000026">then,</span>
   <span id="f000027">curving,</span>
   <span id="f000028">was lost to view.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Doubtless there was an outpost farther along.</span>
   <span id="f000030">The other bank of the stream was open ground – a gentle slope topped with a stockade of vertical tree trunks,</span>
   <span id="f000031">loopholed for rifles,</span>
   <span id="f000032">with a single embrasure through which protruded the muzzle of a brass cannon commanding the bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Midway up the slope between the bridge and fort were the spectators – a single company of infantry in line,</span>
   <span id="f000034">at “parade rest,” the butts of their rifles on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000035">the barrels inclining slightly backward against the right shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000036">the hands crossed upon the stock.</span>
   <span id="f000037">A lieutenant stood at the right of the line,</span>
   <span id="f000038">the point of his sword upon the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000039">his left hand resting upon his right.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Excepting the group of four at the center of the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000041">not a man moved.</span>
   <span id="f000042">The company faced the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000043">staring stonily,</span>
   <span id="f000044">motionless.</span>
   <span id="f000045">The sentinels,</span>
   <span id="f000046">facing the banks of the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000047">might have been statues to adorn the bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000048">The captain stood with folded arms,</span>
   <span id="f000049">silent,</span>
   <span id="f000050">observing the work of his subordinates,</span>
   <span id="f000051">but making no sign.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Death is a dignitary who when he comes announced is to be received with formal manifestations of respect,</span>
   <span id="f000053">even by those most familiar with him.</span>
   <span id="f000054">In the code of military etiquette silence and fixity are forms of deference.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">The man who was engaged in being hanged was apparently about thirty-five years of age.</span>
   <span id="f000056">He was a civilian,</span>
   <span id="f000057">if one might judge from his habit,</span>
   <span id="f000058">which was that of a planter.</span>
   <span id="f000059">His features were good – a straight nose,</span>
   <span id="f000060">firm mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000061">broad forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000062">from which his long,</span>
   <span id="f000063">dark hair was combed straight back,</span>
   <span id="f000064">falling behind his ears to the collar of his well fitting frock coat.</span>
   <span id="f000065">He wore a moustache and pointed beard,</span>
   <span id="f000066">but no whiskers;</span>
   <span id="f000067">his eyes were large and dark gray,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and had a kindly expression which one would hardly have expected in one whose neck was in the hemp.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Evidently this was no vulgar assassin.</span>
   <span id="f000070">The liberal military code makes provision for hanging many kinds of persons,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and gentlemen are not excluded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">The preparations being complete,</span>
   <span id="f000073">the two private soldiers stepped aside and each drew away the plank upon which he had been standing.</span>
   <span id="f000074">The sergeant turned to the captain,</span>
   <span id="f000075">saluted and placed himself immediately behind that officer,</span>
   <span id="f000076">who in turn moved apart one pace.</span>
   <span id="f000077">These movements left the condemned man and the sergeant standing on the two ends of the same plank,</span>
   <span id="f000078">which spanned three of the cross-ties of the bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000079">The end upon which the civilian stood almost,</span>
   <span id="f000080">but not quite,</span>
   <span id="f000081">reached a fourth.</span>
   <span id="f000082">This plank had been held in place by the weight of the captain;</span>
   <span id="f000083">it was now held by that of the sergeant.</span>
   <span id="f000084">At a signal from the former the latter would step aside,</span>
   <span id="f000085">the plank would tilt and the condemned man go down between two ties.</span>
   <span id="f000086">The arrangement commended itself to his judgement as simple and effective.</span>
   <span id="f000087">His face had not been covered nor his eyes bandaged.</span>
   <span id="f000088">He looked a moment at his “unsteadfast footing,” then let his gaze wander to the swirling water of the stream racing madly beneath his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000089">A piece of dancing driftwood caught his attention and his eyes followed it down the current.</span>
   <span id="f000090">How slowly it appeared to move!</span>
   <span id="f000091">What a sluggish stream!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">He closed his eyes in order to fix his last thoughts upon his wife and children.</span>
   <span id="f000093">The water,</span>
   <span id="f000094">touched to gold by the early sun,</span>
   <span id="f000095">the brooding mists under the banks at some distance down the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000096">the fort,</span>
   <span id="f000097">the soldiers,</span>
   <span id="f000098">the piece of drift – all had distracted him.</span>
   <span id="f000099">And now he became conscious of a new disturbance.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Striking through the thought of his dear ones was sound which he could neither ignore nor understand,</span>
   <span id="f000101">a sharp,</span>
   <span id="f000102">distinct,</span>
   <span id="f000103">metallic percussion like the stroke of a blacksmith’s hammer upon the anvil;</span>
   <span id="f000104">it had the same ringing quality.</span>
   <span id="f000105">He wondered what it was,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and whether immeasurably distant or near by – it seemed both.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Its recurrence was regular,</span>
   <span id="f000108">but as slow as the tolling of a death knell.</span>
   <span id="f000109">He awaited each new stroke with impatience and – he knew not why – apprehension.</span>
   <span id="f000110">The intervals of silence grew progressively longer;</span>
   <span id="f000111">the delays became maddening.</span>
   <span id="f000112">With their greater infrequency the sounds increased in strength and sharpness.</span>
   <span id="f000113">They hurt his ear like the trust of a knife;</span>
   <span id="f000114">he feared he would shriek.</span>
   <span id="f000115">What he heard was the ticking of his watch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">He unclosed his eyes and saw again the water below him.</span>
   <span id="f000117">“If I could free my hands,” he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000118">“I might throw off the noose and spring into the stream.</span>
   <span id="f000119">By diving I could evade the bullets and,</span>
   <span id="f000120">swimming vigorously,</span>
   <span id="f000121">reach the bank,</span>
   <span id="f000122">take to the woods and get away home.</span>
   <span id="f000123">My home,</span>
   <span id="f000124">thank God,</span>
   <span id="f000125">is as yet outside their lines;</span>
   <span id="f000126">my wife and little ones are still beyond the invader’s farthest advance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">As these thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000128">which have here to be set down in words,</span>
   <span id="f000129">were flashed into the doomed man’s brain rather than evolved from it the captain nodded to the sergeant.</span>
   <span id="f000130">The sergeant stepped aside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">Peyton Farquhar was a well to do planter,</span>
   <span id="f000132">of an old and highly respected Alabama family.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Being a slave owner and like other slave owners a politician,</span>
   <span id="f000134">he was naturally an original secessionist and ardently devoted to the Southern cause.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Circumstances of an imperious nature,</span>
   <span id="f000136">which it is unnecessary to relate here,</span>
   <span id="f000137">had prevented him from taking service with that gallant army which had fought the disastrous campaigns ending with the fall of Corinth,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and he chafed under the inglorious restraint,</span>
   <span id="f000139">longing for the release of his energies,</span>
   <span id="f000140">the larger life of the soldier,</span>
   <span id="f000141">the opportunity for distinction.</span>
   <span id="f000142">That opportunity,</span>
   <span id="f000143">he felt,</span>
   <span id="f000144">would come,</span>
   <span id="f000145">as it comes to all in wartime.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Meanwhile he did what he could.</span>
   <span id="f000147">No service was too humble for him to perform in the aid of the South,</span>
   <span id="f000148">no adventure to perilous for him to undertake if consistent with the character of a civilian who was at heart a soldier,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and who in good faith and without too much qualification assented to at least a part of the frankly villainous dictum that all is fair in love and war.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">One evening while Farquhar and his wife were sitting on a rustic bench near the entrance to his grounds,</span>
   <span id="f000151">a gray-clad soldier rode up to the gate and asked for a drink of water.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Mrs.&#160;Farquhar was only too happy to serve him with her own white hands.</span>
   <span id="f000153">While she was fetching the water her husband approached the dusty horseman and inquired eagerly for news from the front.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“The Yanks are repairing the railroads,” said the man,</span>
   <span id="f000155">“and are getting ready for another advance.</span>
   <span id="f000156">They have reached the Owl Creek bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000157">put it in order and built a stockade on the north bank.</span>
   <span id="f000158">The commandant has issued an order,</span>
   <span id="f000159">which is posted everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000160">declaring that any civilian caught interfering with the railroad,</span>
   <span id="f000161">its bridges,</span>
   <span id="f000162">tunnels,</span>
   <span id="f000163">or trains will be summarily hanged.</span>
   <span id="f000164">I saw the order.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">“How far is it to the Owl Creek bridge?” Farquhar asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“About thirty miles.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“Is there no force on this side of the creek?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“Only a picket post half a mile out,</span>
   <span id="f000169">on the railroad,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and a single sentinel at this end of the bridge.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“Suppose a man – a civilian and student of hanging – should elude the picket post and perhaps get the better of the sentinel,” said Farquhar,</span>
   <span id="f000172">smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000173">“what could he accomplish?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">The soldier reflected.</span>
   <span id="f000175">“I was there a month ago,” he replied.</span>
   <span id="f000176">“I observed that the flood of last winter had lodged a great quantity of driftwood against the wooden pier at this end of the bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000177">It is now dry and would burn like tinder.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">The lady had now brought the water,</span>
   <span id="f000179">which the soldier drank.</span>
   <span id="f000180">He thanked her ceremoniously,</span>
   <span id="f000181">bowed to her husband and rode away.</span>
   <span id="f000182">An hour later,</span>
   <span id="f000183">after nightfall,</span>
   <span id="f000184">he repassed the plantation,</span>
   <span id="f000185">going northward in the direction from which he had come.</span>
   <span id="f000186">He was a Federal scout.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">As Peyton Farquhar fell straight downward through the bridge he lost consciousness and was as one already dead.</span>
   <span id="f000188">From this state he was awakened – ages later,</span>
   <span id="f000189">it seemed to him – by the pain of a sharp pressure upon his throat,</span>
   <span id="f000190">followed by a sense of suffocation.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Keen,</span>
   <span id="f000192">poignant agonies seemed to shoot from his neck downward through every fiber of his body and limbs.</span>
   <span id="f000193">These pains appeared to flash along well defined lines of ramification and to beat with an inconceivably rapid periodicity.</span>
   <span id="f000194">They seemed like streams of pulsating fire heating him to an intolerable temperature.</span>
   <span id="f000195">As to his head,</span>
   <span id="f000196">he was conscious of nothing but a feeling of fullness – of congestion.</span>
   <span id="f000197">These sensations were unaccompanied by thought.</span>
   <span id="f000198">The intellectual part of his nature was already effaced;</span>
   <span id="f000199">he had power only to feel,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and feeling was torment.</span>
   <span id="f000201">He was conscious of motion.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Encompassed in a luminous cloud,</span>
   <span id="f000203">of which he was now merely the fiery heart,</span>
   <span id="f000204">without material substance,</span>
   <span id="f000205">he swung through unthinkable arcs of oscillation,</span>
   <span id="f000206">like a vast pendulum.</span>
   <span id="f000207">Then all at once,</span>
   <span id="f000208">with terrible suddenness,</span>
   <span id="f000209">the light about him shot upward with the noise of a loud splash;</span>
   <span id="f000210">a frightful roaring was in his ears,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and all was cold and dark.</span>
   <span id="f000212">The power of thought was restored;</span>
   <span id="f000213">he knew that the rope had broken and he had fallen into the stream.</span>
   <span id="f000214">There was no additional strangulation;</span>
   <span id="f000215">the noose about his neck was already suffocating him and kept the water from his lungs.</span>
   <span id="f000216">To die of hanging at the bottom of a river!</span>
   <span id="f000217">– the idea seemed to him ludicrous.</span>
   <span id="f000218">He opened his eyes in the darkness and saw above him a gleam of light,</span>
   <span id="f000219">but how distant,</span>
   <span id="f000220">how inaccessible!</span>
   <span id="f000221">He was still sinking,</span>
   <span id="f000222">for the light became fainter and fainter until it was a mere glimmer.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Then it began to grow and brighten,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and he knew that he was rising toward the surface – knew it with reluctance,</span>
   <span id="f000225">for he was now very comfortable.</span>
   <span id="f000226">“To be hanged and drowned,” he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000227">“that is not so bad;</span>
   <span id="f000228">but I do not wish to be shot.</span>
   <span id="f000229">No;</span>
   <span id="f000230">I will not be shot;</span>
   <span id="f000231">that is not fair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">He was not conscious of an effort,</span>
   <span id="f000233">but a sharp pain in his wrist apprised him that he was trying to free his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000234">He gave the struggle his attention,</span>
   <span id="f000235">as an idler might observe the feat of a juggler,</span>
   <span id="f000236">without interest in the outcome.</span>
   <span id="f000237">What splendid effort!</span>
   <span id="f000238">– what magnificent,</span>
   <span id="f000239">what superhuman strength!</span>
   <span id="f000240">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000241">that was a fine endeavor!</span>
   <span id="f000242">Bravo!</span>
   <span id="f000243">The cord fell away;</span>
   <span id="f000244">his arms parted and floated upward,</span>
   <span id="f000245">the hands dimly seen on each side in the growing light.</span>
   <span id="f000246">He watched them with a new interest as first one and then the other pounced upon the noose at his neck.</span>
   <span id="f000247">They tore it away and thrust it fiercely aside,</span>
   <span id="f000248">its undulations resembling those of a water snake.</span>
   <span id="f000249">“Put it back,</span>
   <span id="f000250">put it back!” He thought he shouted these words to his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000251">for the undoing of the noose had been succeeded by the direst pang that he had yet experienced.</span>
   <span id="f000252">His neck ached horribly;</span>
   <span id="f000253">his brain was on fire,</span>
   <span id="f000254">his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000255">which had been fluttering faintly,</span>
   <span id="f000256">gave a great leap,</span>
   <span id="f000257">trying to force itself out at his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000258">His whole body was racked and wrenched with an insupportable anguish!</span>
   <span id="f000259">But his disobedient hands gave no heed to the command.</span>
   <span id="f000260">They beat the water vigorously with quick,</span>
   <span id="f000261">downward strokes,</span>
   <span id="f000262">forcing him to the surface.</span>
   <span id="f000263">He felt his head emerge;</span>
   <span id="f000264">his eyes were blinded by the sunlight;</span>
   <span id="f000265">his chest expanded convulsively,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and with a supreme and crowning agony his lungs engulfed a great draught of air,</span>
   <span id="f000267">which instantly he expelled in a shriek!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">He was now in full possession of his physical senses.</span>
   <span id="f000269">They were,</span>
   <span id="f000270">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000271">preternaturally keen and alert.</span>
   <span id="f000272">Something in the awful disturbance of his organic system had so exalted and refined them that they made record of things never before perceived.</span>
   <span id="f000273">He felt the ripples upon his face and heard their separate sounds as they struck.</span>
   <span id="f000274">He looked at the forest on the bank of the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000275">saw the individual trees,</span>
   <span id="f000276">the leaves and the veining of each leaf – he saw the very insects upon them:</span>
   <span id="f000277">the locusts,</span>
   <span id="f000278">the brilliant bodied flies,</span>
   <span id="f000279">the gray spiders stretching their webs from twig to twig.</span>
   <span id="f000280">He noted the prismatic colors in all the dewdrops upon a million blades of grass.</span>
   <span id="f000281">The humming of the gnats that danced above the eddies of the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000282">the beating of the dragon flies’ wings,</span>
   <span id="f000283">the strokes of the water spiders’ legs,</span>
   <span id="f000284">like oars which had lifted their boat – all these made audible music.</span>
   <span id="f000285">A fish slid along beneath his eyes and he heard the rush of its body parting the water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">He had come to the surface facing down the stream;</span>
   <span id="f000287">in a moment the visible world seemed to wheel slowly round,</span>
   <span id="f000288">himself the pivotal point,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and he saw the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000290">the fort,</span>
   <span id="f000291">the soldiers upon the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000292">the captain,</span>
   <span id="f000293">the sergeant,</span>
   <span id="f000294">the two privates,</span>
   <span id="f000295">his executioners.</span>
   <span id="f000296">They were in silhouette against the blue sky.</span>
   <span id="f000297">They shouted and gesticulated,</span>
   <span id="f000298">pointing at him.</span>
   <span id="f000299">The captain had drawn his pistol,</span>
   <span id="f000300">but did not fire;</span>
   <span id="f000301">the others were unarmed.</span>
   <span id="f000302">Their movements were grotesque and horrible,</span>
   <span id="f000303">their forms gigantic.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">Suddenly he heard a sharp report and something struck the water smartly within a few inches of his head,</span>
   <span id="f000305">spattering his face with spray.</span>
   <span id="f000306">He heard a second report,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and saw one of the sentinels with his rifle at his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000308">a light cloud of blue smoke rising from the muzzle.</span>
   <span id="f000309">The man in the water saw the eye of the man on the bridge gazing into his own through the sights of the rifle.</span>
   <span id="f000310">He observed that it was a gray eye and remembered having read that gray eyes were keenest,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and that all famous marksmen had them.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000313">this one had missed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">A counter-swirl had caught Farquhar and turned him half round;</span>
   <span id="f000315">he was again looking at the forest on the bank opposite the fort.</span>
   <span id="f000316">The sound of a clear,</span>
   <span id="f000317">high voice in a monotonous singsong now rang out behind him and came across the water with a distinctness that pierced and subdued all other sounds,</span>
   <span id="f000318">even the beating of the ripples in his ears.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Although no soldier,</span>
   <span id="f000320">he had frequented camps enough to know the dread significance of that deliberate,</span>
   <span id="f000321">drawling,</span>
   <span id="f000322">aspirated chant;</span>
   <span id="f000323">the lieutenant on shore was taking a part in the morning’s work.</span>
   <span id="f000324">How coldly and pitilessly – with what an even,</span>
   <span id="f000325">calm intonation,</span>
   <span id="f000326">presaging,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and enforcing tranquility in the men – with what accurately measured interval fell those cruel words:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“Company!…</span>
   <span id="f000329">Attention!…</span>
   <span id="f000330">Shoulder arms!…</span>
   <span id="f000331">Ready!…</span>
   <span id="f000332">Aim!…</span>
   <span id="f000333">Fire!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">Farquhar dived – dived as deeply as he could.</span>
   <span id="f000335">The water roared in his ears like the voice of Niagara,</span>
   <span id="f000336">yet he heard the dull thunder of the volley and,</span>
   <span id="f000337">rising again toward the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000338">met shining bits of metal,</span>
   <span id="f000339">singularly flattened,</span>
   <span id="f000340">oscillating slowly downward.</span>
   <span id="f000341">Some of them touched him on the face and hands,</span>
   <span id="f000342">then fell away,</span>
   <span id="f000343">continuing their descent.</span>
   <span id="f000344">One lodged between his collar and neck;</span>
   <span id="f000345">it was uncomfortably warm and he snatched it out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">As he rose to the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000347">gasping for breath,</span>
   <span id="f000348">he saw that he had been a long time under water;</span>
   <span id="f000349">he was perceptibly farther downstream – nearer to safety.</span>
   <span id="f000350">The soldiers had almost finished reloading;</span>
   <span id="f000351">the metal ramrods flashed all at once in the sunshine as they were drawn from the barrels,</span>
   <span id="f000352">turned in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and thrust into their sockets.</span>
   <span id="f000354">The two sentinels fired again,</span>
   <span id="f000355">independently and ineffectually.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">The hunted man saw all this over his shoulder;</span>
   <span id="f000357">he was now swimming vigorously with the current.</span>
   <span id="f000358">His brain was as energetic as his arms and legs;</span>
   <span id="f000359">he thought with the rapidity of lightning:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“The officer,” he reasoned,</span>
   <span id="f000361">“will not make that martinet’s error a second time.</span>
   <span id="f000362">It is as easy to dodge a volley as a single shot.</span>
   <span id="f000363">He has probably already given the command to fire at will.</span>
   <span id="f000364">God help me,</span>
   <span id="f000365">I cannot dodge them all!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">An appalling splash within two yards of him was followed by a loud,</span>
   <span id="f000367">rushing sound,</span>
   <span id="f000368">DIMINUENDO,</span>
   <span id="f000369">which seemed to travel back through the air to the fort and died in an explosion which stirred the very river to its deeps!</span>
   <span id="f000370">A rising sheet of water curved over him,</span>
   <span id="f000371">fell down upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000372">blinded him,</span>
   <span id="f000373">strangled him!</span>
   <span id="f000374">The cannon had taken an hand in the game.</span>
   <span id="f000375">As he shook his head free from the commotion of the smitten water he heard the deflected shot humming through the air ahead,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and in an instant it was cracking and smashing the branches in the forest beyond.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“They will not do that again,” he thought;</span>
   <span id="f000378">“the next time they will use a charge of grape.</span>
   <span id="f000379">I must keep my eye upon the gun;</span>
   <span id="f000380">the smoke will apprise me – the report arrives too late;</span>
   <span id="f000381">it lags behind the missile.</span>
   <span id="f000382">That is a good gun.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">Suddenly he felt himself whirled round and round – spinning like a top.</span>
   <span id="f000384">The water,</span>
   <span id="f000385">the banks,</span>
   <span id="f000386">the forests,</span>
   <span id="f000387">the now distant bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000388">fort and men,</span>
   <span id="f000389">all were commingled and blurred.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Objects were represented by their colors only;</span>
   <span id="f000391">circular horizontal streaks of color – that was all he saw.</span>
   <span id="f000392">He had been caught in a vortex and was being whirled on with a velocity of advance and gyration that made him giddy and sick.</span>
   <span id="f000393">In few moments he was flung upon the gravel at the foot of the left bank of the stream – the southern bank – and behind a projecting point which concealed him from his enemies.</span>
   <span id="f000394">The sudden arrest of his motion,</span>
   <span id="f000395">the abrasion of one of his hands on the gravel,</span>
   <span id="f000396">restored him,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and he wept with delight.</span>
   <span id="f000398">He dug his fingers into the sand,</span>
   <span id="f000399">threw it over himself in handfuls and audibly blessed it.</span>
   <span id="f000400">It looked like diamonds,</span>
   <span id="f000401">rubies,</span>
   <span id="f000402">emeralds;</span>
   <span id="f000403">he could think of nothing beautiful which it did not resemble.</span>
   <span id="f000404">The trees upon the bank were giant garden plants;</span>
   <span id="f000405">he noted a definite order in their arrangement,</span>
   <span id="f000406">inhaled the fragrance of their blooms.</span>
   <span id="f000407">A strange roseate light shone through the spaces among their trunks and the wind made in their branches the music of AEolian harps.</span>
   <span id="f000408">He had not wish to perfect his escape – he was content to remain in that enchanting spot until retaken.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">A whiz and a rattle of grapeshot among the branches high above his head roused him from his dream.</span>
   <span id="f000410">The baffled cannoneer had fired him a random farewell.</span>
   <span id="f000411">He sprang to his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000412">rushed up the sloping bank,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and plunged into the forest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">All that day he traveled,</span>
   <span id="f000415">laying his course by the rounding sun.</span>
   <span id="f000416">The forest seemed interminable;</span>
   <span id="f000417">nowhere did he discover a break in it,</span>
   <span id="f000418">not even a woodman’s road.</span>
   <span id="f000419">He had not known that he lived in so wild a region.</span>
   <span id="f000420">There was something uncanny in the revelation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">By nightfall he was fatigued,</span>
   <span id="f000422">footsore,</span>
   <span id="f000423">famished.</span>
   <span id="f000424">The thought of his wife and children urged him on.</span>
   <span id="f000425">At last he found a road which led him in what he knew to be the right direction.</span>
   <span id="f000426">It was as wide and straight as a city street,</span>
   <span id="f000427">yet it seemed untraveled.</span>
   <span id="f000428">No fields bordered it,</span>
   <span id="f000429">no dwelling anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000430">Not so much as the barking of a dog suggested human habitation.</span>
   <span id="f000431">The black bodies of the trees formed a straight wall on both sides,</span>
   <span id="f000432">terminating on the horizon in a point,</span>
   <span id="f000433">like a diagram in a lesson in perspective.</span>
   <span id="f000434">Overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000435">as he looked up through this rift in the wood,</span>
   <span id="f000436">shone great golden stars looking unfamiliar and grouped in strange constellations.</span>
   <span id="f000437">He was sure they were arranged in some order which had a secret and malign significance.</span>
   <span id="f000438">The wood on either side was full of singular noises,</span>
   <span id="f000439">among which – once,</span>
   <span id="f000440">twice,</span>
   <span id="f000441">and again – he distinctly heard whispers in an unknown tongue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">His neck was in pain and lifting his hand to it found it horribly swollen.</span>
   <span id="f000443">He knew that it had a circle of black where the rope had bruised it.</span>
   <span id="f000444">His eyes felt congested;</span>
   <span id="f000445">he could no longer close them.</span>
   <span id="f000446">His tongue was swollen with thirst;</span>
   <span id="f000447">he relieved its fever by thrusting it forward from between his teeth into the cold air.</span>
   <span id="f000448">How softly the turf had carpeted the untraveled avenue – he could no longer feel the roadway beneath his feet!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">Doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f000450">despite his suffering,</span>
   <span id="f000451">he had fallen asleep while walking,</span>
   <span id="f000452">for now he sees another scene – perhaps he has merely recovered from a delirium.</span>
   <span id="f000453">He stands at the gate of his own home.</span>
   <span id="f000454">All is as he left it,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and all bright and beautiful in the morning sunshine.</span>
   <span id="f000456">He must have traveled the entire night.</span>
   <span id="f000457">As he pushes open the gate and passes up the wide white walk,</span>
   <span id="f000458">he sees a flutter of female garments;</span>
   <span id="f000459">his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000460">looking fresh and cool and sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000461">steps down from the veranda to meet him.</span>
   <span id="f000462">At the bottom of the steps she stands waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000463">with a smile of ineffable joy,</span>
   <span id="f000464">an attitude of matchless grace and dignity.</span>
   <span id="f000465">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000466">how beautiful she is!</span>
   <span id="f000467">He springs forwards with extended arms.</span>
   <span id="f000468">As he is about to clasp her he feels a stunning blow upon the back of the neck;</span>
   <span id="f000469">a blinding white light blazes all about him with a sound like the shock of a cannon – then all is darkness and silence!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">Peyton Farquhar was dead;</span>
   <span id="f000471">his body,</span>
   <span id="f000472">with a broken neck,</span>
   <span id="f000473">swung gently from side to side beneath the timbers of the Owl Creek bridge.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

