<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure V<br />The Five Orange Pips</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases between the years ’82 and ’90,</span>
   <span id="f000009">I am faced by so many which present strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know which to choose and which to leave.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Some,</span>
   <span id="f000011">however,</span>
   <span id="f000012">have already gained publicity through the papers,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and others have not offered a field for those peculiar qualities which my friend possessed in so high a degree,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and which it is the object of these papers to illustrate.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Some,</span>
   <span id="f000016">too,</span>
   <span id="f000017">have baffled his analytical skill,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and would be,</span>
   <span id="f000019">as narratives,</span>
   <span id="f000020">beginnings without an ending,</span>
   <span id="f000021">while others have been but partially cleared up,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to him.</span>
   <span id="f000023">There is,</span>
   <span id="f000024">however,</span>
   <span id="f000025">one of these last which was so remarkable in its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted to give some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points in connection with it which never have been,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and probably never will be,</span>
   <span id="f000027">entirely cleared up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">The year ’87 furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or less interest,</span>
   <span id="f000029">of which I retain the records.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Among my headings under this one twelve months I find an account of the adventure of the Paradol Chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000031">of the Amateur Mendicant Society,</span>
   <span id="f000032">who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse,</span>
   <span id="f000033">of the facts connected with the loss of the British barque “Sophy Anderson”,</span>
   <span id="f000034">of the singular adventures of the Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and finally of the Camberwell poisoning case.</span>
   <span id="f000036">In the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000037">as may be remembered,</span>
   <span id="f000038">Sherlock Holmes was able,</span>
   <span id="f000039">by winding up the dead man’s watch,</span>
   <span id="f000040">to prove that it had been wound up two hours before,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and that therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time – a deduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case.</span>
   <span id="f000042">All these I may sketch out at some future date,</span>
   <span id="f000043">but none of them present such singular features as the strange train of circumstances which I have now taken up my pen to describe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">It was in the latter days of September,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and the equinoctial gales had set in with exceptional violence.</span>
   <span id="f000046">All day the wind had screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000047">so that even here in the heart of great,</span>
   <span id="f000048">hand-made London we were forced to raise our minds for the instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his civilisation,</span>
   <span id="f000049">like untamed beasts in a cage.</span>
   <span id="f000050">As evening drew in,</span>
   <span id="f000051">the storm grew higher and louder,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in the chimney.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the fireplace cross-indexing his records of crime,</span>
   <span id="f000054">while I at the other was deep in one of Clark Russell’s fine sea-stories until the howl of the gale from without seemed to blend with the text,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and the splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea waves.</span>
   <span id="f000056">My wife was on a visit to her mother’s,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and for a few days I was a dweller once more in my old quarters at Baker Street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Why,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000059">glancing up at my companion,</span>
   <span id="f000060">“that was surely the bell.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Who could come to-night?</span>
   <span id="f000062">Some friend of yours,</span>
   <span id="f000063">perhaps?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“Except yourself I have none,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000065">“I do not encourage visitors.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“A client,</span>
   <span id="f000067">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">“If so,</span>
   <span id="f000069">it is a serious case.</span>
   <span id="f000070">Nothing less would bring a man out on such a day and at such an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000071">But I take it that it is more likely to be some crony of the landlady’s.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture,</span>
   <span id="f000073">however,</span>
   <span id="f000074">for there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door.</span>
   <span id="f000075">He stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“Come in!” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">The man who entered was young,</span>
   <span id="f000078">some two-and-twenty at the outside,</span>
   <span id="f000079">well-groomed and trimly clad,</span>
   <span id="f000080">with something of refinement and delicacy in his bearing.</span>
   <span id="f000081">The streaming umbrella which he held in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he had come.</span>
   <span id="f000083">He looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and I could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000085">like those of a man who is weighed down with some great anxiety.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“I owe you an apology,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000087">raising his golden pince-nez to his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000088">“I trust that I am not intruding.</span>
   <span id="f000089">I fear that I have brought some traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“Give me your coat and umbrella,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000091">“They may rest here on the hook and will be dry presently.</span>
   <span id="f000092">You have come up from the south-west,</span>
   <span id="f000093">I see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000095">from Horsham.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps is quite distinctive.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“I have come for advice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“That is easily got.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“And help.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“That is not always so easy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“I have heard of you,</span>
   <span id="f000102">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000103">I heard from Major Prendergast how you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000105">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000106">He was wrongfully accused of cheating at cards.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“He said that you could solve anything.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“He said too much.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“That you are never beaten.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“I have been beaten four times – three times by men,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and once by a woman.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“But what is that compared with the number of your successes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“It is true that I have been generally successful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“Then you may be so with me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with some details as to your case.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“It is no ordinary one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">“None of those which come to me are.</span>
   <span id="f000118">I am the last court of appeal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“And yet I question,</span>
   <span id="f000120">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000121">whether,</span>
   <span id="f000122">in all your experience,</span>
   <span id="f000123">you have ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events than those which have happened in my own family.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“You fill me with interest,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000125">“Pray give us the essential facts from the commencement,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and I can afterwards question you as to those details which seem to me to be most important.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards the blaze.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“My name,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000129">"is John Openshaw,</span>
   <span id="f000130">but my own affairs have,</span>
   <span id="f000131">as far as I can understand,</span>
   <span id="f000132">little to do with this awful business.</span>
   <span id="f000133">It is a hereditary matter;</span>
   <span id="f000134">so in order to give you an idea of the facts,</span>
   <span id="f000135">I must go back to the commencement of the affair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">You must know that my grandfather had two sons – my uncle Elias and my father Joseph.</span>
   <span id="f000137">My father had a small factory at Coventry,</span>
   <span id="f000138">which he enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling.</span>
   <span id="f000139">He was a patentee of the Openshaw unbreakable tire,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and his business met with such success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome competence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young man and became a planter in Florida,</span>
   <span id="f000142">where he was reported to have done very well.</span>
   <span id="f000143">At the time of the war he fought in Jackson’s army,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and afterwards under Hood,</span>
   <span id="f000145">where he rose to be a colonel.</span>
   <span id="f000146">When Lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his plantation,</span>
   <span id="f000147">where he remained for three or four years.</span>
   <span id="f000148">About 1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small estate in Sussex,</span>
   <span id="f000149">near Horsham.</span>
   <span id="f000150">He had made a very considerable fortune in the States,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the negroes,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and his dislike of the Republican policy in extending the franchise to them.</span>
   <span id="f000153">He was a singular man,</span>
   <span id="f000154">fierce and quick-tempered,</span>
   <span id="f000155">very foul-mouthed when he was angry,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and of a most retiring disposition.</span>
   <span id="f000157">During all the years that he lived at Horsham,</span>
   <span id="f000158">I doubt if ever he set foot in the town.</span>
   <span id="f000159">He had a garden and two or three fields round his house,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and there he would take his exercise,</span>
   <span id="f000161">though very often for weeks on end he would never leave his room.</span>
   <span id="f000162">He drank a great deal of brandy and smoked very heavily,</span>
   <span id="f000163">but he would see no society and did not want any friends,</span>
   <span id="f000164">not even his own brother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">He didn’t mind me;</span>
   <span id="f000166">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000167">he took a fancy to me,</span>
   <span id="f000168">for at the time when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so.</span>
   <span id="f000169">This would be in the year 1878,</span>
   <span id="f000170">after he had been eight or nine years in England.</span>
   <span id="f000171">He begged my father to let me live with him and he was very kind to me in his way.</span>
   <span id="f000172">When he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and draughts with me,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and he would make me his representative both with the servants and with the tradespeople,</span>
   <span id="f000174">so that by the time that I was sixteen I was quite master of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000175">I kept all the keys and could go where I liked and do what I liked,</span>
   <span id="f000176">so long as I did not disturb him in his privacy.</span>
   <span id="f000177">There was one singular exception,</span>
   <span id="f000178">however,</span>
   <span id="f000179">for he had a single room,</span>
   <span id="f000180">a lumber-room up among the attics,</span>
   <span id="f000181">which was invariably locked,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and which he would never permit either me or anyone else to enter.</span>
   <span id="f000183">With a boy’s curiosity I have peeped through the keyhole,</span>
   <span id="f000184">but I was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and bundles as would be expected in such a room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">One day – it was in March,</span>
   <span id="f000186">1883 – a letter with a foreign stamp lay upon the table in front of the colonel’s plate.</span>
   <span id="f000187">It was not a common thing for him to receive letters,</span>
   <span id="f000188">for his bills were all paid in ready money,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and he had no friends of any sort.</span>
   <span id="f000190">’From India!’ said he as he took it up,</span>
   <span id="f000191">’Pondicherry postmark!</span>
   <span id="f000192">What can this be?’ Opening it hurriedly,</span>
   <span id="f000193">out there jumped five little dried orange pips,</span>
   <span id="f000194">which pattered down upon his plate.</span>
   <span id="f000195">I began to laugh at this,</span>
   <span id="f000196">but the laugh was struck from my lips at the sight of his face.</span>
   <span id="f000197">His lip had fallen,</span>
   <span id="f000198">his eyes were protruding,</span>
   <span id="f000199">his skin the colour of putty,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and he glared at the envelope which he still held in his trembling hand,</span>
   <span id="f000201">’K.</span>
   <span id="f000202">K.</span>
   <span id="f000203">K.!’ he shrieked,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000205">’My God,</span>
   <span id="f000206">my God,</span>
   <span id="f000207">my sins have overtaken me!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">’What is it,</span>
   <span id="f000209">uncle?’ I cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">’Death,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and rising from the table he retired to his room,</span>
   <span id="f000212">leaving me palpitating with horror.</span>
   <span id="f000213">I took up the envelope and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap,</span>
   <span id="f000214">just above the gum,</span>
   <span id="f000215">the letter K three times repeated.</span>
   <span id="f000216">There was nothing else save the five dried pips.</span>
   <span id="f000217">What could be the reason of his overpowering terror?</span>
   <span id="f000218">I left the breakfast-table,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key,</span>
   <span id="f000220">which must have belonged to the attic,</span>
   <span id="f000221">in one hand,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and a small brass box,</span>
   <span id="f000223">like a cashbox,</span>
   <span id="f000224">in the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">’They may do what they like,</span>
   <span id="f000226">but I’ll checkmate them still,’ said he with an oath.</span>
   <span id="f000227">’Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in my room to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and send down to Fordham,</span>
   <span id="f000229">the Horsham lawyer.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">I did as he ordered,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and when the lawyer arrived I was asked to step up to the room.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The fire was burning brightly,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and in the grate there was a mass of black,</span>
   <span id="f000234">fluffy ashes,</span>
   <span id="f000235">as of burned paper,</span>
   <span id="f000236">while the brass box stood open and empty beside it.</span>
   <span id="f000237">As I glanced at the box I noticed,</span>
   <span id="f000238">with a start,</span>
   <span id="f000239">that upon the lid was printed the treble K which I had read in the morning upon the envelope.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">’I wish you,</span>
   <span id="f000241">John,’ said my uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000242">’to witness my will.</span>
   <span id="f000243">I leave my estate,</span>
   <span id="f000244">with all its advantages and all its disadvantages,</span>
   <span id="f000245">to my brother,</span>
   <span id="f000246">your father,</span>
   <span id="f000247">whence it will,</span>
   <span id="f000248">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000249">descend to you.</span>
   <span id="f000250">If you can enjoy it in peace,</span>
   <span id="f000251">well and good!</span>
   <span id="f000252">If you find you cannot,</span>
   <span id="f000253">take my advice,</span>
   <span id="f000254">my boy,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and leave it to your deadliest enemy.</span>
   <span id="f000256">I am sorry to give you such a two-edged thing,</span>
   <span id="f000257">but I can’t say what turn things are going to take.</span>
   <span id="f000258">Kindly sign the paper where Mr.&#160;Fordham shows you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">I signed the paper as directed,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and the lawyer took it away with him.</span>
   <span id="f000261">The singular incident made,</span>
   <span id="f000262">as you may think,</span>
   <span id="f000263">the deepest impression upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and I pondered over it and turned it every way in my mind without being able to make anything of it.</span>
   <span id="f000265">Yet I could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it left behind,</span>
   <span id="f000266">though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives.</span>
   <span id="f000267">I could see a change in my uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000268">however.</span>
   <span id="f000269">He drank more than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and he was less inclined for any sort of society.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Most of his time he would spend in his room,</span>
   <span id="f000272">with the door locked upon the inside,</span>
   <span id="f000273">but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of drunken frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the garden with a revolver in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000274">screaming out that he was afraid of no man,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and that he was not to be cooped up,</span>
   <span id="f000276">like a sheep in a pen,</span>
   <span id="f000277">by man or devil.</span>
   <span id="f000278">When these hot fits were over,</span>
   <span id="f000279">however,</span>
   <span id="f000280">he would rush tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000281">like a man who can brazen it out no longer against the terror which lies at the roots of his soul.</span>
   <span id="f000282">At such times I have seen his face,</span>
   <span id="f000283">even on a cold day,</span>
   <span id="f000284">glisten with moisture,</span>
   <span id="f000285">as though it were new raised from a basin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000287">to come to an end of the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000288">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and not to abuse your patience,</span>
   <span id="f000290">there came a night when he made one of those drunken sallies from which he never came back.</span>
   <span id="f000291">We found him,</span>
   <span id="f000292">when we went to search for him,</span>
   <span id="f000293">face downward in a little green-scummed pool,</span>
   <span id="f000294">which lay at the foot of the garden.</span>
   <span id="f000295">There was no sign of any violence,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and the water was but two feet deep,</span>
   <span id="f000297">so that the jury,</span>
   <span id="f000298">having regard to his known eccentricity,</span>
   <span id="f000299">brought in a verdict of ’suicide.’ But I,</span>
   <span id="f000300">who knew how he winced from the very thought of death,</span>
   <span id="f000301">had much ado to persuade myself that he had gone out of his way to meet it.</span>
   <span id="f000302">The matter passed,</span>
   <span id="f000303">however,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and my father entered into possession of the estate,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and of some 14,000 pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000306">which lay to his credit at the bank.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">“One moment,” Holmes interposed,</span>
   <span id="f000308">“your statement is,</span>
   <span id="f000309">I foresee,</span>
   <span id="f000310">one of the most remarkable to which I have ever listened.</span>
   <span id="f000311">Let me have the date of the reception by your uncle of the letter,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and the date of his supposed suicide.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“The letter arrived on March 10,</span>
   <span id="f000314">1883.</span>
   <span id="f000315">His death was seven weeks later,</span>
   <span id="f000316">upon the night of May 2nd.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">“Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Pray proceed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">When my father took over the Horsham property,</span>
   <span id="f000320">he,</span>
   <span id="f000321">at my request,</span>
   <span id="f000322">made a careful examination of the attic,</span>
   <span id="f000323">which had been always locked up.</span>
   <span id="f000324">We found the brass box there,</span>
   <span id="f000325">although its contents had been destroyed.</span>
   <span id="f000326">On the inside of the cover was a paper label,</span>
   <span id="f000327">with the initials of K.</span>
   <span id="f000328">K.</span>
   <span id="f000329">K.</span>
   <span id="f000330">repeated upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and ’Letters,</span>
   <span id="f000332">memoranda,</span>
   <span id="f000333">receipts,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and a register’ written beneath.</span>
   <span id="f000335">These,</span>
   <span id="f000336">we presume,</span>
   <span id="f000337">indicated the nature of the papers which had been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw.</span>
   <span id="f000338">For the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000339">there was nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle’s life in America.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Some of them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave soldier.</span>
   <span id="f000341">Others were of a date during the reconstruction of the Southern states,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and were mostly concerned with politics,</span>
   <span id="f000343">for he had evidently taken a strong part in opposing the carpet-bag politicians who had been sent down from the North.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000345">it was the beginning of ’84 when my father came to live at Horsham,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and all went as well as possible with us until the January of ’85.</span>
   <span id="f000347">On the fourth day after the new year I heard my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the breakfast-table.</span>
   <span id="f000348">There he was,</span>
   <span id="f000349">sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the outstretched palm of the other one.</span>
   <span id="f000350">He had always laughed at what he called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel,</span>
   <span id="f000351">but he looked very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f000353">what on earth does this mean,</span>
   <span id="f000354">John?’ he stammered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">My heart had turned to lead.</span>
   <span id="f000356">’It is K.</span>
   <span id="f000357">K.</span>
   <span id="f000358">K.,’ said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">He looked inside the envelope.</span>
   <span id="f000360">’So it is,’ he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000361">’Here are the very letters.</span>
   <span id="f000362">But what is this written above them?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">’Put the papers on the sundial,’ I read,</span>
   <span id="f000364">peeping over his shoulder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">’What papers?</span>
   <span id="f000366">What sundial?’ he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">’The sundial in the garden.</span>
   <span id="f000368">There is no other,’ said I;</span>
   <span id="f000369">’but the papers must be those that are destroyed.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">’Pooh!’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000371">gripping hard at his courage.</span>
   <span id="f000372">’We are in a civilised land here,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and we can’t have tomfoolery of this kind.</span>
   <span id="f000374">Where does the thing come from?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">’From Dundee,’ I answered,</span>
   <span id="f000376">glancing at the postmark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">’Some preposterous practical joke,’ said he.</span>
   <span id="f000378">’What have I to do with sundials and papers?</span>
   <span id="f000379">I shall take no notice of such nonsense.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">’I should certainly speak to the police,’ I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">’And be laughed at for my pains.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Nothing of the sort.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000383">’Then let me do so?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000385">I forbid you.</span>
   <span id="f000386">I won’t have a fuss made about such nonsense.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">It was in vain to argue with him,</span>
   <span id="f000388">for he was a very obstinate man.</span>
   <span id="f000389">I went about,</span>
   <span id="f000390">however,</span>
   <span id="f000391">with a heart which was full of forebodings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">On the third day after the coming of the letter my father went from home to visit an old friend of his,</span>
   <span id="f000393">Major Freebody,</span>
   <span id="f000394">who is in command of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill.</span>
   <span id="f000395">I was glad that he should go,</span>
   <span id="f000396">for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away from home.</span>
   <span id="f000397">In that,</span>
   <span id="f000398">however,</span>
   <span id="f000399">I was in error.</span>
   <span id="f000400">Upon the second day of his absence I received a telegram from the major,</span>
   <span id="f000401">imploring me to come at once.</span>
   <span id="f000402">My father had fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound in the neighbourhood,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and was lying senseless,</span>
   <span id="f000404">with a shattered skull.</span>
   <span id="f000405">I hurried to him,</span>
   <span id="f000406">but he passed away without having ever recovered his consciousness.</span>
   <span id="f000407">He had,</span>
   <span id="f000408">as it appears,</span>
   <span id="f000409">been returning from Fareham in the twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and as the country was unknown to him,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and the chalk-pit unfenced,</span>
   <span id="f000412">the jury had no hesitation in bringing in a verdict of ’death from accidental causes.’ Carefully as I examined every fact connected with his death,</span>
   <span id="f000413">I was unable to find anything which could suggest the idea of murder.</span>
   <span id="f000414">There were no signs of violence,</span>
   <span id="f000415">no footmarks,</span>
   <span id="f000416">no robbery,</span>
   <span id="f000417">no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads.</span>
   <span id="f000418">And yet I need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and that I was well-nigh certain that some foul plot had been woven round him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000420">In this sinister way I came into my inheritance.</span>
   <span id="f000421">You will ask me why I did not dispose of it?</span>
   <span id="f000422">I answer,</span>
   <span id="f000423">because I was well convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle’s life,</span>
   <span id="f000424">and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in another.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“It was in January,</span>
   <span id="f000426">’85,</span>
   <span id="f000427">that my poor father met his end,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and two years and eight months have elapsed since then.</span>
   <span id="f000429">During that time I have lived happily at Horsham,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and I had begun to hope that this curse had passed away from the family,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and that it had ended with the last generation.</span>
   <span id="f000432">I had begun to take comfort too soon,</span>
   <span id="f000433">however;</span>
   <span id="f000434">yesterday morning the blow fell in the very shape in which it had come upon my father.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and turning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried orange pips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">“This is the envelope,” he continued.</span>
   <span id="f000438">“The postmark is London – eastern division.</span>
   <span id="f000439">Within are the very words which were upon my father’s last message:</span>
   <span id="f000440">’K.</span>
   <span id="f000441">K.</span>
   <span id="f000442">K.’;</span>
   <span id="f000443">and then ’Put the papers on the sundial.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“What have you done?” asked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“Nothing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000446">“Nothing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“To tell the truth” – he sank his face into his thin,</span>
   <span id="f000448">white hands – “I have felt helpless.</span>
   <span id="f000449">I have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it.</span>
   <span id="f000450">I seem to be in the grasp of some resistless,</span>
   <span id="f000451">inexorable evil,</span>
   <span id="f000452">which no foresight and no precautions can guard against.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“Tut!</span>
   <span id="f000454">tut!” cried Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000455">“You must act,</span>
   <span id="f000456">man,</span>
   <span id="f000457">or you are lost.</span>
   <span id="f000458">Nothing but energy can save you.</span>
   <span id="f000459">This is no time for despair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">“I have seen the police.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“Ah!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">“But they listened to my story with a smile.</span>
   <span id="f000463">I am convinced that the inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all practical jokes,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and that the deaths of my relations were really accidents,</span>
   <span id="f000465">as the jury stated,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and were not to be connected with the warnings.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air.</span>
   <span id="f000468">“Incredible imbecility!” he cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000469">“They have,</span>
   <span id="f000470">however,</span>
   <span id="f000471">allowed me a policeman,</span>
   <span id="f000472">who may remain in the house with me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">“Has he come with you to-night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000475">His orders were to stay in the house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">Again Holmes raved in the air.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">“Why did you come to me,” he cried,</span>
   <span id="f000478">“and,</span>
   <span id="f000479">above all,</span>
   <span id="f000480">why did you not come at once?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">“I did not know.</span>
   <span id="f000482">It was only to-day that I spoke to Major Prendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">“It is really two days since you had the letter.</span>
   <span id="f000484">We should have acted before this.</span>
   <span id="f000485">You have no further evidence,</span>
   <span id="f000486">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000487">than that which you have placed before us – no suggestive detail which might help us?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“There is one thing,” said John Openshaw.</span>
   <span id="f000489">He rummaged in his coat pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and,</span>
   <span id="f000491">drawing out a piece of discoloured,</span>
   <span id="f000492">blue-tinted paper,</span>
   <span id="f000493">he laid it out upon the table.</span>
   <span id="f000494">“I have some remembrance,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000495">“that on the day when my uncle burned the papers I observed that the small,</span>
   <span id="f000496">unburned margins which lay amid the ashes were of this particular colour.</span>
   <span id="f000497">I found this single sheet upon the floor of his room,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and I am inclined to think that it may be one of the papers which has,</span>
   <span id="f000499">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000500">fluttered out from among the others,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and in that way has escaped destruction.</span>
   <span id="f000502">Beyond the mention of pips,</span>
   <span id="f000503">I do not see that it helps us much.</span>
   <span id="f000504">I think myself that it is a page from some private diary.</span>
   <span id="f000505">The writing is undoubtedly my uncle’s.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">Holmes moved the lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and we both bent over the sheet of paper,</span>
   <span id="f000508">which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book.</span>
   <span id="f000509">It was headed,</span>
   <span id="f000510">“March,</span>
   <span id="f000511">1869,” and beneath were the following enigmatical notices:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000512">4th.</span>
   <span id="f000513">Hudson came.</span>
   <span id="f000514">Same old platform.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">7th.</span>
   <span id="f000516">Set the pips on McCauley,</span>
   <span id="f000517">Paramore,</span>
   <span id="f000518">and John Swain,</span>
   <span id="f000519">of St.&#160;Augustine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">9th.</span>
   <span id="f000521">McCauley cleared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">10th.</span>
   <span id="f000523">John Swain cleared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“12th.</span>
   <span id="f000525">Visited Paramore.</span>
   <span id="f000526">All well.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000527">“Thank you!” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000528">folding up the paper and returning it to our visitor.</span>
   <span id="f000529">“And now you must on no account lose another instant.</span>
   <span id="f000530">We cannot spare time even to discuss what you have told me.</span>
   <span id="f000531">You must get home instantly and act.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“What shall I do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“There is but one thing to do.</span>
   <span id="f000534">It must be done at once.</span>
   <span id="f000535">You must put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which you have described.</span>
   <span id="f000536">You must also put in a note to say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and that this is the only one which remains.</span>
   <span id="f000538">You must assert that in such words as will carry conviction with them.</span>
   <span id="f000539">Having done this,</span>
   <span id="f000540">you must at once put the box out upon the sundial,</span>
   <span id="f000541">as directed.</span>
   <span id="f000542">Do you understand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">“Entirely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">“Do not think of revenge,</span>
   <span id="f000545">or anything of the sort,</span>
   <span id="f000546">at present.</span>
   <span id="f000547">I think that we may gain that by means of the law;</span>
   <span id="f000548">but we have our web to weave,</span>
   <span id="f000549">while theirs is already woven.</span>
   <span id="f000550">The first consideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatens you.</span>
   <span id="f000551">The second is to clear up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">“I thank you,” said the young man,</span>
   <span id="f000553">rising and pulling on his overcoat.</span>
   <span id="f000554">“You have given me fresh life and hope.</span>
   <span id="f000555">I shall certainly do as you advise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">“Do not lose an instant.</span>
   <span id="f000557">And,</span>
   <span id="f000558">above all,</span>
   <span id="f000559">take care of yourself in the meanwhile,</span>
   <span id="f000560">for I do not think that there can be a doubt that you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger.</span>
   <span id="f000561">How do you go back?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">“By train from Waterloo.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">“It is not yet nine.</span>
   <span id="f000564">The streets will be crowded,</span>
   <span id="f000565">so I trust that you may be in safety.</span>
   <span id="f000566">And yet you cannot guard yourself too closely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000567">“I am armed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">“That is well.</span>
   <span id="f000569">To-morrow I shall set to work upon your case.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">“I shall see you at Horsham,</span>
   <span id="f000571">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000573">your secret lies in London.</span>
   <span id="f000574">It is there that I shall seek it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">“Then I shall call upon you in a day,</span>
   <span id="f000576">or in two days,</span>
   <span id="f000577">with news as to the box and the papers.</span>
   <span id="f000578">I shall take your advice in every particular.” He shook hands with us and took his leave.</span>
   <span id="f000579">Outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows.</span>
   <span id="f000580">This strange,</span>
   <span id="f000581">wild story seemed to have come to us from amid the mad elements – blown in upon us like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale – and now to have been reabsorbed by them once more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence,</span>
   <span id="f000583">with his head sunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000584">Then he lit his pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“I think,</span>
   <span id="f000587">Watson,” he remarked at last,</span>
   <span id="f000588">“that of all our cases we have had none more fantastic than this.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">“Save,</span>
   <span id="f000590">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000591">the Sign of Four.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000593">yes.</span>
   <span id="f000594">Save,</span>
   <span id="f000595">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000596">that.</span>
   <span id="f000597">And yet this John Openshaw seems to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did the Sholtos.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000598">“But have you,” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000599">“formed any definite conception as to what these perils are?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000600">“There can be no question as to their nature,” he answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000601">“Then what are they?</span>
   <span id="f000602">Who is this K.</span>
   <span id="f000603">K.</span>
   <span id="f000604">K.,</span>
   <span id="f000605">and why does he pursue this unhappy family?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000606">Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of his chair,</span>
   <span id="f000607">with his finger-tips together.</span>
   <span id="f000608">“The ideal reasoner,” he remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000609">“would,</span>
   <span id="f000610">when he had once been shown a single fact in all its bearings,</span>
   <span id="f000611">deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which would follow from it.</span>
   <span id="f000612">As Cuvier could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a single bone,</span>
   <span id="f000613">so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other ones,</span>
   <span id="f000614">both before and after.</span>
   <span id="f000615">We have not yet grasped the results which the reason alone can attain to.</span>
   <span id="f000616">Problems may be solved in the study which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of their senses.</span>
   <span id="f000617">To carry the art,</span>
   <span id="f000618">however,</span>
   <span id="f000619">to its highest pitch,</span>
   <span id="f000620">it is necessary that the reasoner should be able to utilise all the facts which have come to his knowledge;</span>
   <span id="f000621">and this in itself implies,</span>
   <span id="f000622">as you will readily see,</span>
   <span id="f000623">a possession of all knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f000624">which,</span>
   <span id="f000625">even in these days of free education and encyclopaedias,</span>
   <span id="f000626">is a somewhat rare accomplishment.</span>
   <span id="f000627">It is not so impossible,</span>
   <span id="f000628">however,</span>
   <span id="f000629">that a man should possess all knowledge which is likely to be useful to him in his work,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and this I have endeavoured in my case to do.</span>
   <span id="f000631">If I remember rightly,</span>
   <span id="f000632">you on one occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000633">in the early days of our friendship,</span>
   <span id="f000634">defined my limits in a very precise fashion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">“Yes,” I answered,</span>
   <span id="f000636">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000637">“It was a singular document.</span>
   <span id="f000638">Philosophy,</span>
   <span id="f000639">astronomy,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and politics were marked at zero,</span>
   <span id="f000641">I remember.</span>
   <span id="f000642">Botany variable,</span>
   <span id="f000643">geology profound as regards the mud-stains from any region within fifty miles of town,</span>
   <span id="f000644">chemistry eccentric,</span>
   <span id="f000645">anatomy unsystematic,</span>
   <span id="f000646">sensational literature and crime records unique,</span>
   <span id="f000647">violin-player,</span>
   <span id="f000648">boxer,</span>
   <span id="f000649">swordsman,</span>
   <span id="f000650">lawyer,</span>
   <span id="f000651">and self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco.</span>
   <span id="f000652">Those,</span>
   <span id="f000653">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000654">were the main points of my analysis.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">Holmes grinned at the last item.</span>
   <span id="f000656">“Well,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000657">“I say now,</span>
   <span id="f000658">as I said then,</span>
   <span id="f000659">that a man should keep his little brain-attic stocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use,</span>
   <span id="f000660">and the rest he can put away in the lumber-room of his library,</span>
   <span id="f000661">where he can get it if he wants it.</span>
   <span id="f000662">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000663">for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000664">we need certainly to muster all our resources.</span>
   <span id="f000665">Kindly hand me down the letter K of the ’American Encyclopaedia’ which stands upon the shelf beside you.</span>
   <span id="f000666">Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000667">Now let us consider the situation and see what may be deduced from it.</span>
   <span id="f000668">In the first place,</span>
   <span id="f000669">we may start with a strong presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason for leaving America.</span>
   <span id="f000670">Men at his time of life do not change all their habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for the lonely life of an English provincial town.</span>
   <span id="f000671">His extreme love of solitude in England suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or something,</span>
   <span id="f000672">so we may assume as a working hypothesis that it was fear of someone or something which drove him from America.</span>
   <span id="f000673">As to what it was he feared,</span>
   <span id="f000674">we can only deduce that by considering the formidable letters which were received by himself and his successors.</span>
   <span id="f000675">Did you remark the postmarks of those letters?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">“The first was from Pondicherry,</span>
   <span id="f000677">the second from Dundee,</span>
   <span id="f000678">and the third from London.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">“From East London.</span>
   <span id="f000680">What do you deduce from that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“They are all seaports.</span>
   <span id="f000682">That the writer was on board of a ship.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">“Excellent.</span>
   <span id="f000684">We have already a clue.</span>
   <span id="f000685">There can be no doubt that the probability – the strong probability – is that the writer was on board of a ship.</span>
   <span id="f000686">And now let us consider another point.</span>
   <span id="f000687">In the case of Pondicherry,</span>
   <span id="f000688">seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment,</span>
   <span id="f000689">in Dundee it was only some three or four days.</span>
   <span id="f000690">Does that suggest anything?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">“A greater distance to travel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">“But the letter had also a greater distance to come.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000693">“Then I do not see the point.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">“There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the man or men are is a sailing-ship.</span>
   <span id="f000695">It looks as if they always send their singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission.</span>
   <span id="f000696">You see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from Dundee.</span>
   <span id="f000697">If they had come from Pondicherry in a steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter.</span>
   <span id="f000698">But,</span>
   <span id="f000699">as a matter of fact,</span>
   <span id="f000700">seven weeks elapsed.</span>
   <span id="f000701">I think that those seven weeks represented the difference between the mail-boat which brought the letter and the sailing vessel which brought the writer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">“It is possible.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">“More than that.</span>
   <span id="f000704">It is probable.</span>
   <span id="f000705">And now you see the deadly urgency of this new case,</span>
   <span id="f000706">and why I urged young Openshaw to caution.</span>
   <span id="f000707">The blow has always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to travel the distance.</span>
   <span id="f000708">But this one comes from London,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and therefore we cannot count upon delay.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">“Good God!” I cried.</span>
   <span id="f000711">“What can it mean,</span>
   <span id="f000712">this relentless persecution?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital importance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship.</span>
   <span id="f000714">I think that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them.</span>
   <span id="f000715">A single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a way as to deceive a coroner’s jury.</span>
   <span id="f000716">There must have been several in it,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and they must have been men of resource and determination.</span>
   <span id="f000718">Their papers they mean to have,</span>
   <span id="f000719">be the holder of them who it may.</span>
   <span id="f000720">In this way you see K.</span>
   <span id="f000721">K.</span>
   <span id="f000722">K.</span>
   <span id="f000723">ceases to be the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">“But of what society?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“Have you never – ” said Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000726">bending forward and sinking his voice – “have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000727">“I never have.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee.</span>
   <span id="f000729">“Here it is,” said he presently:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000730">’Ku Klux Klan.</span>
   <span id="f000731">A name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle.</span>
   <span id="f000732">This terrible secret society was formed by some ex-Confederate soldiers in the Southern states after the Civil War,</span>
   <span id="f000733">and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of the country,</span>
   <span id="f000734">notably in Tennessee,</span>
   <span id="f000735">Louisiana,</span>
   <span id="f000736">the Carolinas,</span>
   <span id="f000737">Georgia,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and Florida.</span>
   <span id="f000739">Its power was used for political purposes,</span>
   <span id="f000740">principally for the terrorising of the negro voters and the murdering and driving from the country of those who were opposed to its views.</span>
   <span id="f000741">Its outrages were usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic but generally recognised shape – a sprig of oak-leaves in some parts,</span>
   <span id="f000742">melon seeds or orange pips in others.</span>
   <span id="f000743">On receiving this the victim might either openly abjure his former ways,</span>
   <span id="f000744">or might fly from the country.</span>
   <span id="f000745">If he braved the matter out,</span>
   <span id="f000746">death would unfailingly come upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000747">and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner.</span>
   <span id="f000748">So perfect was the organisation of the society,</span>
   <span id="f000749">and so systematic its methods,</span>
   <span id="f000750">that there is hardly a case upon record where any man succeeded in braving it with impunity,</span>
   <span id="f000751">or in which any of its outrages were traced home to the perpetrators.</span>
   <span id="f000752">For some years the organisation flourished in spite of the efforts of the United States government and of the better classes of the community in the South.</span>
   <span id="f000753">Eventually,</span>
   <span id="f000754">in the year 1869,</span>
   <span id="f000755">the movement rather suddenly collapsed,</span>
   <span id="f000756">although there have been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000757">“You will observe,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000758">laying down the volume,</span>
   <span id="f000759">“that the sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the disappearance of Openshaw from America with their papers.</span>
   <span id="f000760">It may well have been cause and effect.</span>
   <span id="f000761">It is no wonder that he and his family have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track.</span>
   <span id="f000762">You can understand that this register and diary may implicate some of the first men in the South,</span>
   <span id="f000763">and that there may be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is recovered.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000764">“Then the page we have seen – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">“Is such as we might expect.</span>
   <span id="f000766">It ran,</span>
   <span id="f000767">if I remember right,</span>
   <span id="f000768">’sent the pips to A,</span>
   <span id="f000769">B,</span>
   <span id="f000770">and C’ – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000771">sent the society’s warning to them.</span>
   <span id="f000772">Then there are successive entries that A and B cleared,</span>
   <span id="f000773">or left the country,</span>
   <span id="f000774">and finally that C was visited,</span>
   <span id="f000775">with,</span>
   <span id="f000776">I fear,</span>
   <span id="f000777">a sinister result for C.</span>
   <span id="f000778">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000779">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000780">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000781">that we may let some light into this dark place,</span>
   <span id="f000782">and I believe that the only chance young Openshaw has in the meantime is to do what I have told him.</span>
   <span id="f000783">There is nothing more to be said or to be done to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000784">so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable ways of our fellow-men.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000785">It had cleared in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000786">and the sun was shining with a subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city.</span>
   <span id="f000787">Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000788">“You will excuse me for not waiting for you,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000789">“I have,</span>
   <span id="f000790">I foresee,</span>
   <span id="f000791">a very busy day before me in looking into this case of young Openshaw’s.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">“What steps will you take?” I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000793">“It will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries.</span>
   <span id="f000794">I may have to go down to Horsham,</span>
   <span id="f000795">after all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“You will not go there first?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000798">I shall commence with the City.</span>
   <span id="f000799">Just ring the bell and the maid will bring up your coffee.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000800">As I waited,</span>
   <span id="f000801">I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced my eye over it.</span>
   <span id="f000802">It rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000803">“Holmes,” I cried,</span>
   <span id="f000804">“you are too late.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">“Ah!” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000806">laying down his cup,</span>
   <span id="f000807">“I feared as much.</span>
   <span id="f000808">How was it done?” He spoke calmly,</span>
   <span id="f000809">but I could see that he was deeply moved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">My eye caught the name of Openshaw,</span>
   <span id="f000811">and the heading ’Tragedy Near Waterloo Bridge.’ Here is the account:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000812">“Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook,</span>
   <span id="f000813">of the H Division,</span>
   <span id="f000814">on duty near Waterloo Bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000815">heard a cry for help and a splash in the water.</span>
   <span id="f000816">The night,</span>
   <span id="f000817">however,</span>
   <span id="f000818">was extremely dark and stormy,</span>
   <span id="f000819">so that,</span>
   <span id="f000820">in spite of the help of several passers-by,</span>
   <span id="f000821">it was quite impossible to effect a rescue.</span>
   <span id="f000822">The alarm,</span>
   <span id="f000823">however,</span>
   <span id="f000824">was given,</span>
   <span id="f000825">and,</span>
   <span id="f000826">by the aid of the water-police,</span>
   <span id="f000827">the body was eventually recovered.</span>
   <span id="f000828">It proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name,</span>
   <span id="f000829">as it appears from an envelope which was found in his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000830">was John Openshaw,</span>
   <span id="f000831">and whose residence is near Horsham.</span>
   <span id="f000832">It is conjectured that he may have been hurrying down to catch the last train from Waterloo Station,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and that in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked over the edge of one of the small landing-places for river steamboats.</span>
   <span id="f000834">The body exhibited no traces of violence,</span>
   <span id="f000835">and there can be no doubt that the deceased had been the victim of an unfortunate accident,</span>
   <span id="f000836">which should have the effect of calling the attention of the authorities to the condition of the riverside landing-stages.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">We sat in silence for some minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000838">Holmes more depressed and shaken than I had ever seen him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">“That hurts my pride,</span>
   <span id="f000840">Watson,” he said at last.</span>
   <span id="f000841">“It is a petty feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000842">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000843">but it hurts my pride.</span>
   <span id="f000844">It becomes a personal matter with me now,</span>
   <span id="f000845">and,</span>
   <span id="f000846">if God sends me health,</span>
   <span id="f000847">I shall set my hand upon this gang.</span>
   <span id="f000848">That he should come to me for help,</span>
   <span id="f000849">and that I should send him away to his death – !” He sprang from his chair and paced about the room in uncontrollable agitation,</span>
   <span id="f000850">with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thin hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000851">“They must be cunning devils,” he exclaimed at last.</span>
   <span id="f000852">“How could they have decoyed him down there?</span>
   <span id="f000853">The Embankment is not on the direct line to the station.</span>
   <span id="f000854">The bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000855">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000856">was too crowded,</span>
   <span id="f000857">even on such a night,</span>
   <span id="f000858">for their purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000859">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000860">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000861">we shall see who will win in the long run.</span>
   <span id="f000862">I am going out now!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">“To the police?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000864">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000865">I shall be my own police.</span>
   <span id="f000866">When I have spun the web they may take the flies,</span>
   <span id="f000867">but not before.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000868">All day I was engaged in my professional work,</span>
   <span id="f000869">and it was late in the evening before I returned to Baker Street.</span>
   <span id="f000870">Sherlock Holmes had not come back yet.</span>
   <span id="f000871">It was nearly ten o’clock before he entered,</span>
   <span id="f000872">looking pale and worn.</span>
   <span id="f000873">He walked up to the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000874">and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it voraciously,</span>
   <span id="f000875">washing it down with a long draught of water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000876">“You are hungry,” I remarked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">“Starving.</span>
   <span id="f000878">It had escaped my memory.</span>
   <span id="f000879">I have had nothing since breakfast.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000880">“Nothing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000881">“Not a bite.</span>
   <span id="f000882">I had no time to think of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000883">“And how have you succeeded?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000884">“Well.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000885">“You have a clue?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000886">“I have them in the hollow of my hand.</span>
   <span id="f000887">Young Openshaw shall not long remain unavenged.</span>
   <span id="f000888">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000889">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000890">let us put their own devilish trade-mark upon them.</span>
   <span id="f000891">It is well thought of!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000892">“What do you mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000893">He took an orange from the cupboard,</span>
   <span id="f000894">and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table.</span>
   <span id="f000895">Of these he took five and thrust them into an envelope.</span>
   <span id="f000896">On the inside of the flap he wrote “S.</span>
   <span id="f000897">H.</span>
   <span id="f000898">for J.</span>
   <span id="f000899">O.” Then he sealed it and addressed it to “Captain James Calhoun,</span>
   <span id="f000900">Barque ’Lone Star,’ Savannah,</span>
   <span id="f000901">Georgia.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000902">“That will await him when he enters port,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000903">chuckling.</span>
   <span id="f000904">“It may give him a sleepless night.</span>
   <span id="f000905">He will find it as sure a precursor of his fate as Openshaw did before him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000906">“And who is this Captain Calhoun?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000907">“The leader of the gang.</span>
   <span id="f000908">I shall have the others,</span>
   <span id="f000909">but he first.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000910">“How did you trace it,</span>
   <span id="f000911">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000912">He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000913">all covered with dates and names.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000914">“I have spent the whole day,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000915">“over Lloyd’s registers and files of the old papers,</span>
   <span id="f000916">following the future career of every vessel which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in ’83.</span>
   <span id="f000917">There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those months.</span>
   <span id="f000918">Of these,</span>
   <span id="f000919">one,</span>
   <span id="f000920">the ’Lone Star,’ instantly attracted my attention,</span>
   <span id="f000921">since,</span>
   <span id="f000922">although it was reported as having cleared from London,</span>
   <span id="f000923">the name is that which is given to one of the states of the Union.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000924">“Texas,</span>
   <span id="f000925">I think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000926">“I was not and am not sure which;</span>
   <span id="f000927">but I knew that the ship must have an American origin.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000928">“What then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000929">“I searched the Dundee records,</span>
   <span id="f000930">and when I found that the barque ’Lone Star’ was there in January,</span>
   <span id="f000931">’85,</span>
   <span id="f000932">my suspicion became a certainty.</span>
   <span id="f000933">I then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in the port of London.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">“Yes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000935">“The ’Lone Star’ had arrived here last week.</span>
   <span id="f000936">I went down to the Albert Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000937">homeward bound to Savannah.</span>
   <span id="f000938">I wired to Gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago,</span>
   <span id="f000939">and as the wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is now past the Goodwins and not very far from the Isle of Wight.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000940">“What will you do,</span>
   <span id="f000941">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000943">I have my hand upon him.</span>
   <span id="f000944">He and the two mates,</span>
   <span id="f000945">are as I learn,</span>
   <span id="f000946">the only native-born Americans in the ship.</span>
   <span id="f000947">The others are Finns and Germans.</span>
   <span id="f000948">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000949">also,</span>
   <span id="f000950">that they were all three away from the ship last night.</span>
   <span id="f000951">I had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo.</span>
   <span id="f000952">By the time that their sailing-ship reaches Savannah the mail-boat will have carried this letter,</span>
   <span id="f000953">and the cable will have informed the police of Savannah that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000954">There is ever a flaw,</span>
   <span id="f000955">however,</span>
   <span id="f000956">in the best laid of human plans,</span>
   <span id="f000957">and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the orange pips which would show them that another,</span>
   <span id="f000958">as cunning and as resolute as themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000959">was upon their track.</span>
   <span id="f000960">Very long and very severe were the equinoctial gales that year.</span>
   <span id="f000961">We waited long for news of the “Lone Star” of Savannah,</span>
   <span id="f000962">but none ever reached us.</span>
   <span id="f000963">We did at last hear that somewhere far out in the Atlantic a shattered stern-post of a boat was seen swinging in the trough of a wave,</span>
   <span id="f000964">with the letters “L.</span>
   <span id="f000965">S.” carved upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and that is all which we shall ever know of the fate of the “Lone Star.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

