<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Elizabeth Klett</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Mark on the Wall</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Virginia Woolf</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Perhaps it was the middle of January in the present year that I first looked up and saw the mark on the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000008">In order to fix a date it is necessary to remember what one saw.</span>
   <span id="f000009">So now I think of the fire;</span>
   <span id="f000010">the steady film of yellow light upon the page of my book;</span>
   <span id="f000011">the three chrysanthemums in the round glass bowl on the mantelpiece.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000013">it must have been the winter time,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and we had just finished our tea,</span>
   <span id="f000015">for I remember that I was smoking a cigarette when I looked up and saw the mark on the wall for the first time.</span>
   <span id="f000016">I looked up through the smoke of my cigarette and my eye lodged for a moment upon the burning coals,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and that old fancy of the crimson flag flapping from the castle tower came into my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and I thought of the cavalcade of red knights riding up the side of the black rock.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Rather to my relief the sight of the mark interrupted the fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000020">for it is an old fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000021">an automatic fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000022">made as a child perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000023">The mark was a small round mark,</span>
   <span id="f000024">black upon the white wall,</span>
   <span id="f000025">about six or seven inches above the mantelpiece.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">How readily our thoughts swarm upon a new object,</span>
   <span id="f000027">lifting it a little way,</span>
   <span id="f000028">as ants carry a blade of straw so feverishly,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and then leave it…</span>
   <span id="f000030">If that mark was made by a nail,</span>
   <span id="f000031">it can’t have been for a picture,</span>
   <span id="f000032">it must have been for a miniature – the miniature of a lady with white powdered curls,</span>
   <span id="f000033">powder-dusted cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and lips like red carnations.</span>
   <span id="f000035">A fraud of course,</span>
   <span id="f000036">for the people who had this house before us would have chosen pictures in that way – an old picture for an old room.</span>
   <span id="f000037">That is the sort of people they were – very interesting people,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and I think of them so often,</span>
   <span id="f000039">in such queer places,</span>
   <span id="f000040">because one will never see them again,</span>
   <span id="f000041">never know what happened next.</span>
   <span id="f000042">They wanted to leave this house because they wanted to change their style of furniture,</span>
   <span id="f000043">so he said,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and he was in process of saying that in his opinion art should have ideas behind it when we were torn asunder,</span>
   <span id="f000045">as one is torn from the old lady about to pour out tea and the young man about to hit the tennis ball in the back garden of the suburban villa as one rushes past in the train.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">But as for that mark,</span>
   <span id="f000047">I’m not sure about it;</span>
   <span id="f000048">I don’t believe it was made by a nail after all;</span>
   <span id="f000049">it’s too big,</span>
   <span id="f000050">too round,</span>
   <span id="f000051">for that.</span>
   <span id="f000052">I might get up,</span>
   <span id="f000053">but if I got up and looked at it,</span>
   <span id="f000054">ten to one I shouldn’t be able to say for certain;</span>
   <span id="f000055">because once a thing’s done,</span>
   <span id="f000056">no one ever knows how it happened.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000058">dear me,</span>
   <span id="f000059">the mystery of life;</span>
   <span id="f000060">The inaccuracy of thought!</span>
   <span id="f000061">The ignorance of humanity!</span>
   <span id="f000062">To show how very little control of our possessions we have – what an accidental affair this living is after all our civilization – let me just count over a few of the things lost in one lifetime,</span>
   <span id="f000063">beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000064">for that seems always the most mysterious of losses – what cat would gnaw,</span>
   <span id="f000065">what rat would nibble – three pale blue canisters of book-binding tools?</span>
   <span id="f000066">Then there were the bird cages,</span>
   <span id="f000067">the iron hoops,</span>
   <span id="f000068">the steel skates,</span>
   <span id="f000069">the Queen Anne coal-scuttle,</span>
   <span id="f000070">the bagatelle board,</span>
   <span id="f000071">the hand organ – all gone,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and jewels,</span>
   <span id="f000073">too.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Opals and emeralds,</span>
   <span id="f000075">they lie about the roots of turnips.</span>
   <span id="f000076">What a scraping paring affair it is to be sure!</span>
   <span id="f000077">The wonder is that I’ve any clothes on my back,</span>
   <span id="f000078">that I sit surrounded by solid furniture at this moment.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000080">if one wants to compare life to anything,</span>
   <span id="f000081">one must liken it to being blown through the Tube at fifty miles an hour – landing at the other end without a single hairpin in one’s hair!</span>
   <span id="f000082">Shot out at the feet of God entirely naked!</span>
   <span id="f000083">Tumbling head over heels in the asphodel meadows like brown paper parcels pitched down a shoot in the post office!</span>
   <span id="f000084">With one’s hair flying back like the tail of a race-horse.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000086">that seems to express the rapidity of life,</span>
   <span id="f000087">the perpetual waste and repair;</span>
   <span id="f000088">all so casual,</span>
   <span id="f000089">all so haphazard…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">But after life.</span>
   <span id="f000091">The slow pulling down of thick green stalks so that the cup of the flower,</span>
   <span id="f000092">as it turns over,</span>
   <span id="f000093">deluges one with purple and red light.</span>
   <span id="f000094">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000095">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000096">should one not be born there as one is born here,</span>
   <span id="f000097">helpless,</span>
   <span id="f000098">speechless,</span>
   <span id="f000099">unable to focus one’s eyesight,</span>
   <span id="f000100">groping at the roots of the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000101">at the toes of the Giants?</span>
   <span id="f000102">As for saying which are trees,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and which are men and women,</span>
   <span id="f000104">or whether there are such things,</span>
   <span id="f000105">that one won’t be in a condition to do for fifty years or so.</span>
   <span id="f000106">There will be nothing but spaces of light and dark,</span>
   <span id="f000107">intersected by thick stalks,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and rather higher up perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000109">rose-shaped blots of an indistinct colour – dim pinks and blues – which will,</span>
   <span id="f000110">as time goes on,</span>
   <span id="f000111">become more definite,</span>
   <span id="f000112">become – I don’t know what…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">And yet that mark on the wall is not a hole at all.</span>
   <span id="f000114">It may even be caused by some round black substance,</span>
   <span id="f000115">such as a small rose leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000116">left over from the summer,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and I,</span>
   <span id="f000118">not being a very vigilant housekeeper – look at the dust on the mantelpiece,</span>
   <span id="f000119">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000120">the dust which,</span>
   <span id="f000121">so they say,</span>
   <span id="f000122">buried Troy three times over,</span>
   <span id="f000123">only fragments of pots utterly refusing annihilation,</span>
   <span id="f000124">as one can believe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">The tree outside the window taps very gently on the pane…</span>
   <span id="f000126">I want to think quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000127">calmly,</span>
   <span id="f000128">spaciously,</span>
   <span id="f000129">never to be interrupted,</span>
   <span id="f000130">never to have to rise from my chair,</span>
   <span id="f000131">to slip easily from one thing to another,</span>
   <span id="f000132">without any sense of hostility,</span>
   <span id="f000133">or obstacle.</span>
   <span id="f000134">I want to sink deeper and deeper,</span>
   <span id="f000135">away from the surface,</span>
   <span id="f000136">with its hard separate facts.</span>
   <span id="f000137">To steady myself,</span>
   <span id="f000138">let me catch hold of the first idea that passes…</span>
   <span id="f000139">Shakespeare…</span>
   <span id="f000140">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000141">he will do as well as another.</span>
   <span id="f000142">A man who sat himself solidly in an arm-chair,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and looked into the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000144">so – A shower of ideas fell perpetually from some very high Heaven down through his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000145">He leant his forehead on his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and people,</span>
   <span id="f000147">looking in through the open door,</span>
   <span id="f000148">– for this scene is supposed to take place on a summer’s evening – But how dull this is,</span>
   <span id="f000149">this historical fiction!</span>
   <span id="f000150">It doesn’t interest me at all.</span>
   <span id="f000151">I wish I could hit upon a pleasant track of thought,</span>
   <span id="f000152">a track indirectly reflecting credit upon myself,</span>
   <span id="f000153">for those are the pleasantest thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and very frequent even in the minds of modest mouse-coloured people,</span>
   <span id="f000155">who believe genuinely that they dislike to hear their own praises.</span>
   <span id="f000156">They are not thoughts directly praising oneself;</span>
   <span id="f000157">that is the beauty of them;</span>
   <span id="f000158">they are thoughts like this:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“And then I came into the room.</span>
   <span id="f000160">They were discussing botany.</span>
   <span id="f000161">I said how I’d seen a flower growing on a dust heap on the site of an old house in Kingsway.</span>
   <span id="f000162">The seed,</span>
   <span id="f000163">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000164">must have been sown in the reign of Charles the First.</span>
   <span id="f000165">What flowers grew in the reign of Charles the First?” I asked –</span>
   <span id="f000166">(but I don’t remember the answer).</span>
   <span id="f000167">Tall flowers with purple tassels to them perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000168">And so it goes on.</span>
   <span id="f000169">All the time I’m dressing up the figure of myself in my own mind,</span>
   <span id="f000170">lovingly,</span>
   <span id="f000171">stealthily,</span>
   <span id="f000172">not openly adoring it,</span>
   <span id="f000173">for if I did that,</span>
   <span id="f000174">I should catch myself out,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and stretch my hand at once for a book in self-protection.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000177">it is curious how instinctively one protects the image of oneself from idolatry or any other handling that could make it ridiculous,</span>
   <span id="f000178">or too unlike the original to be believed in any longer.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Or is it not so very curious after all?</span>
   <span id="f000180">It is a matter of great importance.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Suppose the looking glass smashes,</span>
   <span id="f000182">the image disappears,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and the romantic figure with the green of forest depths all about it is there no longer,</span>
   <span id="f000184">but only that shell of a person which is seen by other people – what an airless,</span>
   <span id="f000185">shallow,</span>
   <span id="f000186">bald,</span>
   <span id="f000187">prominent world it becomes!</span>
   <span id="f000188">A world not to be lived in.</span>
   <span id="f000189">As we face each other in omnibuses and underground railways we are looking into the mirror;</span>
   <span id="f000190">that accounts for the vagueness,</span>
   <span id="f000191">the gleam of glassiness,</span>
   <span id="f000192">in our eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000193">And the novelists in future will realize more and more the importance of these reflections,</span>
   <span id="f000194">for of course there is not one reflection but an almost infinite number;</span>
   <span id="f000195">those are the depths they will explore,</span>
   <span id="f000196">those the phantoms they will pursue,</span>
   <span id="f000197">leaving the description of reality more and more out of their stories,</span>
   <span id="f000198">taking a knowledge of it for granted,</span>
   <span id="f000199">as the Greeks did and Shakespeare perhaps – but these generalizations are very worthless.</span>
   <span id="f000200">The military sound of the word is enough.</span>
   <span id="f000201">It recalls leading articles,</span>
   <span id="f000202">cabinet ministers – a whole class of things indeed which as a child one thought the thing itself,</span>
   <span id="f000203">the standard thing,</span>
   <span id="f000204">the real thing,</span>
   <span id="f000205">from which one could not depart save at the risk of nameless damnation.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Generalizations bring back somehow Sunday in London,</span>
   <span id="f000207">Sunday afternoon walks,</span>
   <span id="f000208">Sunday luncheons,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and also ways of speaking of the dead,</span>
   <span id="f000210">clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and habits – like the habit of sitting all together in one room until a certain hour,</span>
   <span id="f000212">although nobody liked it.</span>
   <span id="f000213">There was a rule for everything.</span>
   <span id="f000214">The rule for tablecloths at that particular period was that they should be made of tapestry with little yellow compartments marked upon them,</span>
   <span id="f000215">such as you may see in photographs of the carpets in the corridors of the royal palaces.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Tablecloths of a different kind were not real tablecloths.</span>
   <span id="f000217">How shocking,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and yet how wonderful it was to discover that these real things,</span>
   <span id="f000219">Sunday luncheons,</span>
   <span id="f000220">Sunday walks,</span>
   <span id="f000221">country houses,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and tablecloths were not entirely real,</span>
   <span id="f000223">were indeed half phantoms,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and the damnation which visited the disbeliever in them was only a sense of illegitimate freedom.</span>
   <span id="f000225">What now takes the place of those things I wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000226">those real standard things?</span>
   <span id="f000227">Men perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000228">should you be a woman;</span>
   <span id="f000229">the masculine point of view which governs our lives,</span>
   <span id="f000230">which sets the standard,</span>
   <span id="f000231">which establishes Whitaker’s Table of Precedency,</span>
   <span id="f000232">which has become,</span>
   <span id="f000233">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000234">since the war half a phantom to many men and women,</span>
   <span id="f000235">which soon,</span>
   <span id="f000236">one may hope,</span>
   <span id="f000237">will be laughed into the dustbin where the phantoms go,</span>
   <span id="f000238">the mahogany sideboards and the Landseer prints,</span>
   <span id="f000239">Gods and Devils,</span>
   <span id="f000240">Hell and so forth,</span>
   <span id="f000241">leaving us all with an intoxicating sense of illegitimate freedom – if freedom exists…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">In certain lights that mark on the wall seems actually to project from the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000243">Nor is it entirely circular.</span>
   <span id="f000244">I cannot be sure,</span>
   <span id="f000245">but it seems to cast a perceptible shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000246">suggesting that if I ran my finger down that strip of the wall it would,</span>
   <span id="f000247">at a certain point,</span>
   <span id="f000248">mount and descend a small tumulus,</span>
   <span id="f000249">a smooth tumulus like those barrows on the South Downs which are,</span>
   <span id="f000250">they say,</span>
   <span id="f000251">either tombs or camps.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Of the two I should prefer them to be tombs,</span>
   <span id="f000253">desiring melancholy like most English people,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and finding it natural at the end of a walk to think of the bones stretched beneath the turf…</span>
   <span id="f000255">There must be some book about it.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Some antiquary must have dug up those bones and given them a name…</span>
   <span id="f000257">What sort of a man is an antiquary,</span>
   <span id="f000258">I wonder?</span>
   <span id="f000259">Retired Colonels for the most part,</span>
   <span id="f000260">I daresay,</span>
   <span id="f000261">leading parties of aged labourers to the top here,</span>
   <span id="f000262">examining clods of earth and stone,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and getting into correspondence with the neighbouring clergy,</span>
   <span id="f000264">which,</span>
   <span id="f000265">being opened at breakfast time,</span>
   <span id="f000266">gives them a feeling of importance,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and the comparison of arrow-heads necessitates cross-country journeys to the county towns,</span>
   <span id="f000268">an agreeable necessity both to them and to their elderly wives,</span>
   <span id="f000269">who wish to make plum jam or to clean out the study,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and have every reason for keeping that great question of the camp or the tomb in perpetual suspension,</span>
   <span id="f000271">while the Colonel himself feels agreeably philosophic in accumulating evidence on both sides of the question.</span>
   <span id="f000272">It is true that he does finally incline to believe in the camp;</span>
   <span id="f000273">and,</span>
   <span id="f000274">being opposed,</span>
   <span id="f000275">indites a pamphlet which he is about to read at the quarterly meeting of the local society when a stroke lays him low,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and his last conscious thoughts are not of wife or child,</span>
   <span id="f000277">but of the camp and that arrowhead there,</span>
   <span id="f000278">which is now in the case at the local museum,</span>
   <span id="f000279">together with the foot of a Chinese murderess,</span>
   <span id="f000280">a handful of Elizabethan nails,</span>
   <span id="f000281">a great many Tudor clay pipes,</span>
   <span id="f000282">a piece of Roman pottery,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and the wine-glass that Nelson drank out of – proving I really don’t know what.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">No,</span>
   <span id="f000285">no,</span>
   <span id="f000286">nothing is proved,</span>
   <span id="f000287">nothing is known.</span>
   <span id="f000288">And if I were to get up at this very moment and ascertain that the mark on the wall is really – what shall we say?</span>
   <span id="f000289">– the head of a gigantic old nail,</span>
   <span id="f000290">driven in two hundred years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000291">which has now,</span>
   <span id="f000292">owing to the patient attrition of many generations of housemaids,</span>
   <span id="f000293">revealed its head above the coat of paint,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and is taking its first view of modern life in the sight of a white-walled fire-lit room,</span>
   <span id="f000295">what should I gain?</span>
   <span id="f000296">– Knowledge?</span>
   <span id="f000297">Matter for further speculation?</span>
   <span id="f000298">I can think sitting still as well as standing up.</span>
   <span id="f000299">And what is knowledge?</span>
   <span id="f000300">What are our learned men save the descendants of witches and hermits who crouched in caves and in woods brewing herbs,</span>
   <span id="f000301">interrogating shrew-mice and writing down the language of the stars?</span>
   <span id="f000302">And the less we honour them as our superstitions dwindle and our respect for beauty and health of mind increases…</span>
   <span id="f000303">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000304">one could imagine a very pleasant world.</span>
   <span id="f000305">A quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000306">spacious world,</span>
   <span id="f000307">with the flowers so red and blue in the open fields.</span>
   <span id="f000308">A world without professors or specialists or house-keepers with the profiles of policemen,</span>
   <span id="f000309">a world which one could slice with one’s thought as a fish slices the water with his fin,</span>
   <span id="f000310">grazing the stems of the water-lilies,</span>
   <span id="f000311">hanging suspended over nests of white sea eggs…</span>
   <span id="f000312">How peaceful it is down here,</span>
   <span id="f000313">rooted in the centre of the world and gazing up through the grey waters,</span>
   <span id="f000314">with their sudden gleams of light,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and their reflections – if it were not for Whitaker’s Almanack – if it were not for the Table of Precedency!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">I must jump up and see for myself what that mark on the wall really is – a nail,</span>
   <span id="f000317">a rose-leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000318">a crack in the wood?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">Here is nature once more at her old game of self-preservation.</span>
   <span id="f000320">This train of thought,</span>
   <span id="f000321">she perceives,</span>
   <span id="f000322">is threatening mere waste of energy,</span>
   <span id="f000323">even some collision with reality,</span>
   <span id="f000324">for who will ever be able to lift a finger against Whitaker’s Table of Precedency?</span>
   <span id="f000325">The Archbishop of Canterbury is followed by the Lord High Chancellor;</span>
   <span id="f000326">the Lord High Chancellor is followed by the Archbishop of York.</span>
   <span id="f000327">Everybody follows somebody,</span>
   <span id="f000328">such is the philosophy of Whitaker;</span>
   <span id="f000329">and the great thing is to know who follows whom.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Whitaker knows,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and let that,</span>
   <span id="f000332">so Nature counsels,</span>
   <span id="f000333">comfort you,</span>
   <span id="f000334">instead of enraging you;</span>
   <span id="f000335">and if you can’t be comforted,</span>
   <span id="f000336">if you must shatter this hour of peace,</span>
   <span id="f000337">think of the mark on the wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">I understand Nature’s game – her prompting to take action as a way of ending any thought that threatens to excite or to pain.</span>
   <span id="f000339">Hence,</span>
   <span id="f000340">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000341">comes our slight contempt for men of action – men,</span>
   <span id="f000342">we assume,</span>
   <span id="f000343">who don’t think.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000345">there’s no harm in putting a full stop to one’s disagreeable thoughts by looking at a mark on the wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000347">now that I have fixed my eyes upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000348">I feel that I have grasped a plank in the sea;</span>
   <span id="f000349">I feel a satisfying sense of reality which at once turns the two Archbishops and the Lord High Chancellor to the shadows of shades.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Here is something definite,</span>
   <span id="f000351">something real.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Thus,</span>
   <span id="f000353">waking from a midnight dream of horror,</span>
   <span id="f000354">one hastily turns on the light and lies quiescent,</span>
   <span id="f000355">worshipping the chest of drawers,</span>
   <span id="f000356">worshipping solidity,</span>
   <span id="f000357">worshipping reality,</span>
   <span id="f000358">worshipping the impersonal world which is a proof of some existence other than ours.</span>
   <span id="f000359">That is what one wants to be sure of…</span>
   <span id="f000360">Wood is a pleasant thing to think about.</span>
   <span id="f000361">It comes from a tree;</span>
   <span id="f000362">and trees grow,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and we don’t know how they grow.</span>
   <span id="f000364">For years and years they grow,</span>
   <span id="f000365">without paying any attention to us,</span>
   <span id="f000366">in meadows,</span>
   <span id="f000367">in forests,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and by the side of rivers – all things one likes to think about.</span>
   <span id="f000369">The cows swish their tails beneath them on hot afternoons;</span>
   <span id="f000370">they paint rivers so green that when a moorhen dives one expects to see its feathers all green when it comes up again.</span>
   <span id="f000371">I like to think of the fish balanced against the stream like flags blown out;</span>
   <span id="f000372">and of water-beetles slowly raising domes of mud upon the bed of the river.</span>
   <span id="f000373">I like to think of the tree itself:</span>
   <span id="f000374">first the close dry sensation of being wood;</span>
   <span id="f000375">then the grinding of the storm;</span>
   <span id="f000376">then the slow,</span>
   <span id="f000377">delicious ooze of sap.</span>
   <span id="f000378">I like to think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000379">too,</span>
   <span id="f000380">on winter’s nights standing in the empty field with all leaves close-furled,</span>
   <span id="f000381">nothing tender exposed to the iron bullets of the moon,</span>
   <span id="f000382">a naked mast upon an earth that goes tumbling,</span>
   <span id="f000383">tumbling,</span>
   <span id="f000384">all night long.</span>
   <span id="f000385">The song of birds must sound very loud and strange in June;</span>
   <span id="f000386">and how cold the feet of insects must feel upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000387">as they make laborious progresses up the creases of the bark,</span>
   <span id="f000388">or sun themselves upon the thin green awning of the leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and look straight in front of them with diamond-cut red eyes…</span>
   <span id="f000390">One by one the fibres snap beneath the immense cold pressure of the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000391">then the last storm comes and,</span>
   <span id="f000392">falling,</span>
   <span id="f000393">the highest branches drive deep into the ground again.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Even so,</span>
   <span id="f000395">life isn’t done with;</span>
   <span id="f000396">there are a million patient,</span>
   <span id="f000397">watchful lives still for a tree,</span>
   <span id="f000398">all over the world,</span>
   <span id="f000399">in bedrooms,</span>
   <span id="f000400">in ships,</span>
   <span id="f000401">on the pavement,</span>
   <span id="f000402">lining rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000403">where men and women sit after tea,</span>
   <span id="f000404">smoking cigarettes.</span>
   <span id="f000405">It is full of peaceful thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000406">happy thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000407">this tree.</span>
   <span id="f000408">I should like to take each one separately – but something is getting in the way…</span>
   <span id="f000409">Where was I?</span>
   <span id="f000410">What has it all been about?</span>
   <span id="f000411">A tree?</span>
   <span id="f000412">A river?</span>
   <span id="f000413">The Downs?</span>
   <span id="f000414">Whitaker’s Almanack?</span>
   <span id="f000415">The fields of asphodel?</span>
   <span id="f000416">I can’t remember a thing.</span>
   <span id="f000417">Everything’s moving,</span>
   <span id="f000418">falling,</span>
   <span id="f000419">slipping,</span>
   <span id="f000420">vanishing…</span>
   <span id="f000421">There is a vast upheaval of matter.</span>
   <span id="f000422">Someone is standing over me and saying –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“I’m going out to buy a newspaper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“Yes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“Though it’s no good buying newspapers…</span>
   <span id="f000426">Nothing ever happens.</span>
   <span id="f000427">Curse this war;</span>
   <span id="f000428">God damn this war!…</span>
   <span id="f000429">All the same,</span>
   <span id="f000430">I don’t see why we should have a snail on our wall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000432">the mark on the wall!</span>
   <span id="f000433">It was a snail.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

