<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">How the Whale Got His Throat</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">In the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000003">once upon a time,</span>
   <span id="f000004">O my Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000005">there was a Whale,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and he ate fishes.</span>
   <span id="f000007">He ate the starfish and the garfish,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and the crab and the dab,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and the plaice and the dace,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and the skate and his mate,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and the mackereel and the pickereel,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and the really truly twirly-whirly eel.</span>
   <span id="f000013">All the fishes he could find in all the sea he ate with his mouth – so!</span>
   <span id="f000014">Till at last there was only one small fish left in all the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and he was a small ’Stute Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and he swam a little behind the Whale’s right ear,</span>
   <span id="f000017">so as to be out of harm’s way.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Then the Whale stood up on his tail and said,</span>
   <span id="f000019">’I’m hungry.’ And the small ’Stute Fish said in a small ’stute voice,</span>
   <span id="f000020">’Noble and generous Cetacean,</span>
   <span id="f000021">have you ever tasted Man?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">’No,’ said the Whale.</span>
   <span id="f000023">’What is it like?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">’Nice,’ said the small ’Stute Fish.</span>
   <span id="f000025">’Nice but nubbly.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">’Then fetch me some,’ said the Whale,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and he made the sea froth up with his tail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">’One at a time is enough,’ said the ’Stute Fish.</span>
   <span id="f000029">’If you swim to latitude Fifty North,</span>
   <span id="f000030">longitude Forty West</span>
   <span id="f000031">(that is magic),</span>
   <span id="f000032">you will find,</span>
   <span id="f000033">sitting <em>on</em> a raft,</span>
   <span id="f000034"><em>in</em> the middle of the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000035">with nothing on but a pair of blue canvas breeches,</span>
   <span id="f000036">a pair of suspenders</span>
   <span id="f000037">(you must <em>not</em> forget the suspenders,</span>
   <span id="f000038">Best Beloved),</span>
   <span id="f000039">and a jack-knife,</span>
   <span id="f000040">one ship-wrecked Mariner,</span>
   <span id="f000041">who,</span>
   <span id="f000042">it is only fair to tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000043">is a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">So the Whale swam and swam to latitude Fifty North,</span>
   <span id="f000045">longitude Forty West,</span>
   <span id="f000046">as fast as he could swim,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and <em>on</em> a raft,</span>
   <span id="f000048"><em>in</em> the middle of the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000049"><em>with</em> nothing to wear except a pair of blue canvas breeches,</span>
   <span id="f000050">a pair of suspenders</span>
   <span id="f000051">(you must particularly remember the suspenders,</span>
   <span id="f000052">Best Beloved),</span>
   <span id="f000053"><em>and</em> a jack-knife,</span>
   <span id="f000054">he found one single,</span>
   <span id="f000055">solitary shipwrecked Mariner,</span>
   <span id="f000056">trailing his toes in the water.</span>
   <span id="f000057">(He had his mummy’s leave to paddle,</span>
   <span id="f000058">or else he would never have done it,</span>
   <span id="f000059">because he was a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">Then the Whale opened his mouth back and back and back till it nearly touched his tail,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and he swallowed the shipwrecked Mariner,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and the raft he was sitting on,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and his blue canvas breeches,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and the suspenders</span>
   <span id="f000065">(which you <em>must</em> not forget),</span>
   <span id="f000066"><em>and</em> the jack-knife – He swallowed them all down into his warm,</span>
   <span id="f000067">dark,</span>
   <span id="f000068">inside cup-boards,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and then he smacked his lips – so,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and turned round three times on his tail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">But as soon as the Mariner,</span>
   <span id="f000072">who was a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity,</span>
   <span id="f000073">found himself truly inside the Whale’s warm,</span>
   <span id="f000074">dark,</span>
   <span id="f000075">inside cup-boards,</span>
   <span id="f000076">he stumped and he jumped and he thumped and he bumped,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and he pranced and he danced,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and he banged and he clanged,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and he hit and he bit,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and he leaped and he creeped,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and he prowled and he howled,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and he hopped and he dropped,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and he cried and he sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and he crawled and he bawled,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and he stepped and he lepped,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and he danced hornpipes where he shouldn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and the Whale felt most unhappy indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000088">(<em>Have</em> you forgotten the suspenders?)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">So he said to the ’Stute Fish,</span>
   <span id="f000090">’This man is very nubbly,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and besides he is making me hiccough.</span>
   <span id="f000092">What shall I do?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">’Tell him to come out,’ said the ’Stute Fish.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">So the Whale called down his own throat to the shipwrecked Mariner,</span>
   <span id="f000095">’Come out and behave yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000096">I’ve got the hiccoughs.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">’Nay,</span>
   <span id="f000098">nay!’ said the Mariner.</span>
   <span id="f000099">’Not so,</span>
   <span id="f000100">but far otherwise.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Take me to my natal-shore and the white-cliffs-of-Albion,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and I’ll think about it.’ And he began to dance more than ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">’You had better take him home,’ said the ’Stute Fish to the Whale.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">’I ought to have warned you that he is a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">So the Whale swam and swam and swam,</span>
   <span id="f000106">with both flippers and his tail,</span>
   <span id="f000107">as hard as he could for the hiccoughs;</span>
   <span id="f000108">and at last he saw the Mariner’s natal-shore and the white-cliffs-of-Albion,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and he rushed half-way up the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and opened his mouth wide and wide and wide,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000112">’Change here for Winchester,</span>
   <span id="f000113">Ashuelot,</span>
   <span id="f000114">Nashua,</span>
   <span id="f000115">Keene,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and stations on the <em>Fitch</em>burg Road;’ and just as he said ’Fitch’ the Mariner walked out of his mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000117">But while the Whale had been swimming,</span>
   <span id="f000118">the Mariner,</span>
   <span id="f000119">who was indeed a person of infinite-resource-and-sagacity,</span>
   <span id="f000120">had taken his jack-knife and cut up the raft into a little square grating all running criss-cross,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and he had tied it firm with his suspenders</span>
   <span id="f000122">(<em>now</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000123">you know why you were not to forget the suspenders!),</span>
   <span id="f000124">and he dragged that grating good and tight into the Whale’s throat,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and there it stuck!</span>
   <span id="f000126">Then he recited the following <em>Sloka</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000127">which,</span>
   <span id="f000128">as you have not heard it,</span>
   <span id="f000129">I will now proceed to relate –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000130">By means of a grating<br /></span>
   <span id="f000131">I have stopped your ating.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000132">For the Mariner he was also an Hi-ber-ni-an.</span>
   <span id="f000133">And he stepped out on the shingle,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and went home to his mother,</span>
   <span id="f000135">who had given him leave to trail his toes in the water;</span>
   <span id="f000136">and he married and lived happily ever afterward.</span>
   <span id="f000137">So did the Whale.</span>
   <span id="f000138">But from that day on,</span>
   <span id="f000139">the grating in his throat,</span>
   <span id="f000140">which he could neither cough up nor swallow down,</span>
   <span id="f000141">prevented him eating anything except very,</span>
   <span id="f000142">very small fish;</span>
   <span id="f000143">and that is the reason why whales nowadays never eat men or boys or little girls.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">The small ’Stute Fish went and hid himself in the mud under the Door-sills of the Equator.</span>
   <span id="f000145">He was afraid that the Whale might be angry with him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">The Sailor took the jack-knife home.</span>
   <span id="f000147">He was wearing the blue canvas breeches when he walked out on the shingle.</span>
   <span id="f000148">The suspenders were left behind,</span>
   <span id="f000149">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000150">to tie the grating with;</span>
   <span id="f000151">and that is the end of <em>that</em> tale.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000152">When the cabin port-holes are dark and green<br /></span>
   <span id="f000153">Because of the seas outside;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000154">When the ship goes <em>wop</em></span>
   <span id="f000155">(with a wiggle between)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000156">And the steward falls into the soup-tureen,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000157">And the trunks begin to slide;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000158">When Nursey lies on the floor in a heap,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000159">And Mummy tells you to let her sleep,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000160">And you aren’t waked or washed or dressed,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000161">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000162">then you will know</span>
   <span id="f000163">(if you haven’t guessed)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000164">You’re ’Fifty North and Forty West!’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

