<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">How the Camel Got His Hump</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Now this is the next tale,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and it tells how the Camel got his big hump.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000004">In the beginning of years,</span>
   <span id="f000005">when the world was so new and all,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and the Animals were just beginning to work for Man,</span>
   <span id="f000007">there was a Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and he lived in the middle of a Howling Desert because he did not want to work;</span>
   <span id="f000009">and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000010">he was a Howler himself.</span>
   <span id="f000011">So he ate sticks and thorns and tamarisks and milkweed and prickles,</span>
   <span id="f000012">most ’scruciating idle;</span>
   <span id="f000013">and when anybody spoke to him he said ’Humph!’ Just ’Humph!’ and no more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Presently the Horse came to him on Monday morning,</span>
   <span id="f000015">with a saddle on his back and a bit in his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000017">’Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000018">O Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000019">come out and trot like the rest of us.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">’Humph!’ said the Camel;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and the Horse went away and told the Man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">Presently the Dog came to him,</span>
   <span id="f000023">with a stick in his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000025">’Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000026">O Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000027">come and fetch and carry like the rest of us.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">’Humph!’ said the Camel;</span>
   <span id="f000029">and the Dog went away and told the Man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">Presently the Ox came to him,</span>
   <span id="f000031">with the yoke on his neck and said,</span>
   <span id="f000032">’Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000033">O Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000034">come and plough like the rest of us.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">’Humph!’ said the Camel;</span>
   <span id="f000036">and the Ox went away and told the Man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">At the end of the day the Man called the Horse and the Dog and the Ox together,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000039">’Three,</span>
   <span id="f000040">O Three,</span>
   <span id="f000041">I’m very sorry for you</span>
   <span id="f000042">(with the world so new-and-all);</span>
   <span id="f000043">but that Humph-thing in the Desert can’t work,</span>
   <span id="f000044">or he would have been here by now,</span>
   <span id="f000045">so I am going to leave him alone,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and you must work double-time to make up for it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">That made the Three very angry</span>
   <span id="f000048">(with the world so new-and-all),</span>
   <span id="f000049">and they held a palaver,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and an <em>indaba</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and a <em>punchayet</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and a pow-wow on the edge of the Desert;</span>
   <span id="f000053">and the Camel came chewing on milkweed <em>most</em> ’scruciating idle,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and laughed at them.</span>
   <span id="f000055">Then he said ’Humph!’ and went away again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">Presently there came along the Djinn in charge of All Deserts,</span>
   <span id="f000057">rolling in a cloud of dust</span>
   <span id="f000058">(Djinns always travel that way because it is Magic),</span>
   <span id="f000059">and he stopped to palaver and pow-pow with the Three.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">’Djinn of All Deserts,’ said the Horse,</span>
   <span id="f000061">’is it right for any one to be idle,</span>
   <span id="f000062">with the world so new-and-all?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">’Certainly not,’ said the Djinn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">’Well,’ said the Horse,</span>
   <span id="f000065">’there’s a thing in the middle of your Howling Desert</span>
   <span id="f000066">(and he’s a Howler himself)</span>
   <span id="f000067">with a long neck and long legs,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and he hasn’t done a stroke of work since Monday morning.</span>
   <span id="f000069">He won’t trot.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">’Whew!’ said the Djinn,</span>
   <span id="f000071">whistling,</span>
   <span id="f000072">’that’s my Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000073">for all the gold in Arabia!</span>
   <span id="f000074">What does he say about it?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">’He says “Humph!”’ said the Dog;</span>
   <span id="f000076">’and he won’t fetch and carry.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">’Does he say anything else?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">’Only “Humph!”;</span>
   <span id="f000079">and he won’t plough,’ said the Ox.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">’Very good,’ said the Djinn.</span>
   <span id="f000081">’I’ll humph him if you will kindly wait a minute.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">The Djinn rolled himself up in his dust-cloak,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and took a bearing across the desert,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and found the Camel most ’scruciatingly idle,</span>
   <span id="f000085">looking at his own reflection in a pool of water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">’My long and bubbling friend,’ said the Djinn,</span>
   <span id="f000087">’what’s this I hear of your doing no work,</span>
   <span id="f000088">with the world so new-and-all?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">’Humph!’ said the Camel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">The Djinn sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000091">with his chin in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and began to think a Great Magic,</span>
   <span id="f000093">while the Camel looked at his own reflection in the pool of water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">’You’ve given the Three extra work ever since Monday morning,</span>
   <span id="f000095">all on account of your ’scruciating idleness,’ said the Djinn;</span>
   <span id="f000096">and he went on thinking Magics,</span>
   <span id="f000097">with his chin in his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">’Humph!’ said the Camel.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">’I shouldn’t say that again if I were you,’ said the Djinn;</span>
   <span id="f000100">you might say it once too often.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Bubbles,</span>
   <span id="f000102">I want you to work.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">And the Camel said ’Humph!’ again;</span>
   <span id="f000104">but no sooner had he said it than he saw his back,</span>
   <span id="f000105">that he was so proud of,</span>
   <span id="f000106">puffing up and puffing up into a great big lolloping humph.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">’Do you see that?’ said the Djinn.</span>
   <span id="f000108">’That’s your very own humph that you’ve brought upon your very own self by not working.</span>
   <span id="f000109">To-day is Thursday,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and you’ve done no work since Monday,</span>
   <span id="f000111">when the work began.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Now you are going to work.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">’How can I,’ said the Camel,</span>
   <span id="f000114">’with this humph on my back?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">’That’s made a-purpose,’ said the Djinn,</span>
   <span id="f000116">’all because you missed those three days.</span>
   <span id="f000117">You will be able to work now for three days without eating,</span>
   <span id="f000118">because you can live on your humph;</span>
   <span id="f000119">and don’t you ever say I never did anything for you.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Come out of the Desert and go to the Three,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and behave.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Humph yourself!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">And the Camel humphed himself,</span>
   <span id="f000124">humph and all,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and went away to join the Three.</span>
   <span id="f000126">And from that day to this the Camel always wears a humph</span>
   <span id="f000127">(we call it ’hump’ now,</span>
   <span id="f000128">not to hurt his feelings);</span>
   <span id="f000129">but he has never yet caught up with the three days that he missed at the beginning of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and he has never yet learned how to behave.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000131">The Camel’s hump is an ugly lump<br /></span>
   <span id="f000132">Which well you may see at the Zoo;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000133">But uglier yet is the hump we get<br /></span>
   <span id="f000134">From having too little to do.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">Kiddies and grown-ups too-oo-oo,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000136">If we haven’t enough to do-oo-oo,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000137">We get the hump – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000138">Cameelious hump – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000139">The hump that is black and blue!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">We climb out of bed with a frouzly head<br /></span>
   <span id="f000141">And a snarly-yarly voice.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000142">We shiver and scowl and we grunt and we growl<br /></span>
   <span id="f000143">At our bath and our boots and our toys;</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">And there ought to be a corner for me<br /></span>
   <span id="f000145">(And I know there is one for you)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000146">When we get the hump – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000147">Cameelious hump – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000148">The hump that is black and blue!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">The cure for this ill is not to sit still,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000150">Or frowst with a book by the fire;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000151">But to take a large hoe and a shovel also,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000152">And dig till you gently perspire;</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">And then you will find that the sun and the wind.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000154">And the Djinn of the Garden too,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000155">Have lifted the hump – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000156">The horrible hump – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000157">The hump that is black and blue!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">I get it as well as you-oo-oo – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000159">If I haven’t enough to do-oo-oo – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000160">We all get hump – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000161">Cameelious hump – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000162">Kiddies and grown-ups too!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

