<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">How the Rhinoceros Got His Skin</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Once upon a time,</span>
   <span id="f000003">on an uninhabited island on the shores of the Red Sea,</span>
   <span id="f000004">there lived a Parsee from whose hat the rays of the sun were reflected in more-than-oriental splendour.</span>
   <span id="f000005">And the Parsee lived by the Red Sea with nothing but his hat and his knife and a cooking-stove of the kind that you must particularly never touch.</span>
   <span id="f000006">And one day he took flour and water and currants and plums and sugar and things,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and made himself one cake which was two feet across and three feet thick.</span>
   <span id="f000008">It was indeed a Superior Comestible</span>
   <span id="f000009">(that’s magic),</span>
   <span id="f000010">and he put it on stove because he was allowed to cook on the stove,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and he baked it and he baked it till it was all done brown and smelt most sentimental.</span>
   <span id="f000012">But just as he was going to eat it there came down to the beach from the Altogether Uninhabited Interior one Rhinoceros with a horn on his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000013">two piggy eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and few manners.</span>
   <span id="f000015">In those days the Rhinoceros’s skin fitted him quite tight.</span>
   <span id="f000016">There were no wrinkles in it anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000017">He looked exactly like a Noah’s Ark Rhinoceros,</span>
   <span id="f000018">but of course much bigger.</span>
   <span id="f000019">All the same,</span>
   <span id="f000020">he had no manners then,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and he has no manners now,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and he never will have any manners.</span>
   <span id="f000023">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000024">’How!’ and the Parsee left that cake and climbed to the top of a palm tree with nothing on but his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000025">from which the rays of the sun were always reflected in more-than-oriental splendour.</span>
   <span id="f000026">And the Rhinoceros upset the oil-stove with his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and the cake rolled on the sand,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and he spiked that cake on the horn of his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and he ate it,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and he went away,</span>
   <span id="f000031">waving his tail,</span>
   <span id="f000032">to the desolate and Exclusively Uninhabited Interior which abuts on the islands of Mazanderan,</span>
   <span id="f000033">Socotra,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and Promontories of the Larger Equinox.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Then the Parsee came down from his palm-tree and put the stove on its legs and recited the following Sloka,</span>
   <span id="f000036">which,</span>
   <span id="f000037">as you have not heard,</span>
   <span id="f000038">I will now proceed to relate:</span>
   <span id="f000039">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000040">Them that takes cakes<br /></span>
   <span id="f000041">Which the Parsee-man bakes<br /></span>
   <span id="f000042">Makes dreadful mistakes.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000043">And there was a great deal more in that than you would think.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">Because,</span>
   <span id="f000045">five weeks later,</span>
   <span id="f000046">there was a heat wave in the Red Sea,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and everybody took off all the clothes they had.</span>
   <span id="f000048">The Parsee took off his hat;</span>
   <span id="f000049">but the Rhinoceros took off his skin and carried it over his shoulder as he came down to the beach to bathe.</span>
   <span id="f000050">In those days it buttoned underneath with three buttons and looked like a waterproof.</span>
   <span id="f000051">He said nothing whatever about the Parsee’s cake,</span>
   <span id="f000052">because he had eaten it all;</span>
   <span id="f000053">and he never had any manners,</span>
   <span id="f000054">then,</span>
   <span id="f000055">since,</span>
   <span id="f000056">or henceforward.</span>
   <span id="f000057">He waddled straight into the water and blew bubbles through his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000058">leaving his skin on the beach.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">Presently the Parsee came by and found the skin,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and he smiled one smile that ran all round his face two times.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Then he danced three times round the skin and rubbed his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Then he went to his camp and filled his hat with cake-crumbs,</span>
   <span id="f000063">for the Parsee never ate anything but cake,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and never swept out his camp.</span>
   <span id="f000065">He took that skin,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and he shook that skin,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and he scrubbed that skin,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and he rubbed that skin just as full of old,</span>
   <span id="f000069">dry,</span>
   <span id="f000070">stale,</span>
   <span id="f000071">tickly cake-crumbs and some burned currants as ever it could possibly hold.</span>
   <span id="f000072">Then he climbed to the top of his palm-tree and waited for the Rhinoceros to come out of the water and put it on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">And the Rhinoceros did.</span>
   <span id="f000074">He buttoned it up with the three buttons,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and it tickled like cake crumbs in bed.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Then he wanted to scratch,</span>
   <span id="f000077">but that made it worse;</span>
   <span id="f000078">and then he lay down on the sands and rolled and rolled and rolled,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and every time he rolled the cake crumbs tickled him worse and worse and worse.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Then he ran to the palm-tree and rubbed and rubbed and rubbed himself against it.</span>
   <span id="f000081">He rubbed so much and so hard that he rubbed his skin into a great fold over his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and another fold underneath,</span>
   <span id="f000083">where the buttons used to be</span>
   <span id="f000084">(but he rubbed the buttons off),</span>
   <span id="f000085">and he rubbed some more folds over his legs.</span>
   <span id="f000086">And it spoiled his temper,</span>
   <span id="f000087">but it didn’t make the least difference to the cake-crumbs.</span>
   <span id="f000088">They were inside his skin and they tickled.</span>
   <span id="f000089">So he went home,</span>
   <span id="f000090">very angry indeed and horribly scratchy;</span>
   <span id="f000091">and from that day to this every rhinoceros has great folds in his skin and a very bad temper,</span>
   <span id="f000092">all on account of the cake-crumbs inside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">But the Parsee came down from his palm-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000094">wearing his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000095">from which the rays of the sun were reflected in more-than-oriental splendour,</span>
   <span id="f000096">packed up his cooking-stove,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and went away in the direction of Orotavo,</span>
   <span id="f000098">Amygdala,</span>
   <span id="f000099">the Upland Meadows of Anantarivo,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and the Marshes of Sonaput.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000101">This Uninhabited Island<br /></span>
   <span id="f000102">Is off Cape Gardafui,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000103">By the Beaches of Socotra<br /></span>
   <span id="f000104">And the Pink Arabian Sea:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000105">But it’s hot – too hot from Suez<br /></span>
   <span id="f000106">For the likes of you and me<br /></span>
   <span id="f000107">Ever to go<br /></span>
   <span id="f000108">In a P.</span>
   <span id="f000109">and O.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000110">And call on the Cake-Parsee!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

