<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">How the Leopard Got His Spots</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">In the days when everybody started fair,</span>
   <span id="f000003">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000004">the Leopard lived in a place called the High Veldt.</span>
   <span id="f000005">’Member it wasn’t the Low Veldt,</span>
   <span id="f000006">or the Bush Veldt,</span>
   <span id="f000007">or the Sour Veldt,</span>
   <span id="f000008">but the ’sclusively bare,</span>
   <span id="f000009">hot,</span>
   <span id="f000010">shiny High Veldt,</span>
   <span id="f000011">where there was sand and sandy-coloured rock and ’sclusively tufts of sandy-yellowish grass.</span>
   <span id="f000012">The Giraffe and the Zebra and the Eland and the Koodoo and the Hartebeest lived there;</span>
   <span id="f000013">and they were ’sclusively sandy-yellow-brownish all over;</span>
   <span id="f000014">but the Leopard,</span>
   <span id="f000015">he was the ’sclusivest sandiest-yellowish-brownest of them all – a greyish-yellowish catty-shaped kind of beast,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and he matched the ’sclusively yellowish-greyish-brownish colour of the High Veldt to one hair.</span>
   <span id="f000017">This was very bad for the Giraffe and the Zebra and the rest of them;</span>
   <span id="f000018">for he would lie down by a ’sclusively yellowish-greyish-brownish stone or clump of grass,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and when the Giraffe or the Zebra or the Eland or the Koodoo or the Bush-Buck or the Bonte-Buck came by he would surprise them out of their jumpsome lives.</span>
   <span id="f000020">He would indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000021">And,</span>
   <span id="f000022">also,</span>
   <span id="f000023">there was an Ethiopian with bows and arrows</span>
   <span id="f000024">(a ’sclusively greyish-brownish-yellowish man he was then),</span>
   <span id="f000025">who lived on the High Veldt with the Leopard;</span>
   <span id="f000026">and the two used to hunt together – the Ethiopian with his bows and arrows,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and the Leopard ’sclusively with his teeth and claws – till the Giraffe and the Eland and the Koodoo and the Quagga and all the rest of them didn’t know which way to jump,</span>
   <span id="f000028">Best Beloved.</span>
   <span id="f000029">They didn’t indeed!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">After a long time – things lived for ever so long in those days – they learned to avoid anything that looked like a Leopard or an Ethiopian;</span>
   <span id="f000031">and bit by bit – the Giraffe began it,</span>
   <span id="f000032">because his legs were the longest – they went away from the High Veldt.</span>
   <span id="f000033">They scuttled for days and days and days till they came to a great forest,</span>
   <span id="f000034">’sclusively full of trees and bushes and stripy,</span>
   <span id="f000035">speckly,</span>
   <span id="f000036">patchy-blatchy shadows,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and there they hid:</span>
   <span id="f000038">and after another long time,</span>
   <span id="f000039">what with standing half in the shade and half out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and what with the slippery-slidy shadows of the trees falling on them,</span>
   <span id="f000041">the Giraffe grew blotchy,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and the Zebra grew stripy,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and the Eland and the Koodoo grew darker,</span>
   <span id="f000044">with little wavy grey lines on their backs like bark on a tree trunk;</span>
   <span id="f000045">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000046">though you could hear them and smell them,</span>
   <span id="f000047">you could very seldom see them,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and then only when you knew precisely where to look.</span>
   <span id="f000049">They had a beautiful time in the ’sclusively speckly-spickly shadows of the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000050">while the Leopard and the Ethiopian ran about over the ’sclusively greyish-yellowish-reddish High Veldt outside,</span>
   <span id="f000051">wondering where all their breakfasts and their dinners and their teas had gone.</span>
   <span id="f000052">At last they were so hungry that they ate rats and beetles and rock-rabbits,</span>
   <span id="f000053">the Leopard and the Ethiopian,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and then they had the Big Tummy-ache,</span>
   <span id="f000055">both together;</span>
   <span id="f000056">and then they met Baviaan – the dog-headed,</span>
   <span id="f000057">barking Baboon,</span>
   <span id="f000058">who is Quite the Wisest Animal in All South Africa.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">Said Leopard to Baviaan</span>
   <span id="f000060">(and it was a very hot day),</span>
   <span id="f000061">’Where has all the game gone?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">And Baviaan winked.</span>
   <span id="f000063">He knew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">Said the Ethiopian to Baviaan,</span>
   <span id="f000065">’Can you tell me the present habitat of the aboriginal Fauna?’</span>
   <span id="f000066">(That meant just the same thing,</span>
   <span id="f000067">but the Ethiopian always used long words.</span>
   <span id="f000068">He was a grown-up.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">And Baviaan winked.</span>
   <span id="f000070">He knew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">Then said Baviaan,</span>
   <span id="f000072">’The game has gone into other spots;</span>
   <span id="f000073">and my advice to you,</span>
   <span id="f000074">Leopard,</span>
   <span id="f000075">is to go into other spots as soon as you can.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">And the Ethiopian said,</span>
   <span id="f000077">’That is all very fine,</span>
   <span id="f000078">but I wish to know whither the aboriginal Fauna has migrated.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">Then said Baviaan,</span>
   <span id="f000080">’The aboriginal Fauna has joined the aboriginal Flora because it was high time for a change;</span>
   <span id="f000081">and my advice to you,</span>
   <span id="f000082">Ethiopian,</span>
   <span id="f000083">is to change as soon as you can.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">That puzzled the Leopard and the Ethiopian,</span>
   <span id="f000085">but they set off to look for the aboriginal Flora,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and presently,</span>
   <span id="f000087">after ever so many days,</span>
   <span id="f000088">they saw a great,</span>
   <span id="f000089">high,</span>
   <span id="f000090">tall forest full of tree trunks all ’sclusively speckled and sprottled and spottled,</span>
   <span id="f000091">dotted and splashed and slashed and hatched and cross-hatched with shadows.</span>
   <span id="f000092">(Say that quickly aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and you will see how very shadowy the forest must have been.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">’What is this,’ said the Leopard,</span>
   <span id="f000095">’that is so ’sclusively dark,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and yet so full of little pieces of light?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">’I don’t know,</span>
   <span id="f000098">said the Ethiopian,</span>
   <span id="f000099">’but it ought to be the aboriginal Flora.</span>
   <span id="f000100">I can smell Giraffe,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and I can hear Giraffe,</span>
   <span id="f000102">but I can’t see Giraffe.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">’That’s curious,’ said the Leopard.</span>
   <span id="f000104">’I suppose it is because we have just come in out of the sunshine.</span>
   <span id="f000105">I can smell Zebra,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and I can hear Zebra,</span>
   <span id="f000107">but I can’t see Zebra.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">’Wait a bit,</span>
   <span id="f000109">said the Ethiopian.</span>
   <span id="f000110">’It’s a long time since we’ve hunted ’em.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Perhaps we’ve forgotten what they were like.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">’Fiddle!’ said the Leopard.</span>
   <span id="f000113">’I remember them perfectly on the High Veldt,</span>
   <span id="f000114">especially their marrow-bones.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Giraffe is about seventeen feet high,</span>
   <span id="f000116">of a ’sclusively fulvous golden-yellow from head to heel;</span>
   <span id="f000117">and Zebra is about four and a half feet high,</span>
   <span id="f000118">of a’sclusively grey-fawn colour from head to heel.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">’Umm,</span>
   <span id="f000120">said the Ethiopian,</span>
   <span id="f000121">looking into the speckly-spickly shadows of the aboriginal Flora-forest.</span>
   <span id="f000122">’Then they ought to show up in this dark place like ripe bananas in a smokehouse.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">But they didn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000124">The Leopard and the Ethiopian hunted all day;</span>
   <span id="f000125">and though they could smell them and hear them,</span>
   <span id="f000126">they never saw one of them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">’For goodness’ sake,’ said the Leopard at tea-time,</span>
   <span id="f000128">’let us wait till it gets dark.</span>
   <span id="f000129">This daylight hunting is a perfect scandal.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">So they waited till dark,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and then the Leopard heard something breathing sniffily in the starlight that fell all stripy through the branches,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and he jumped at the noise,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and it smelt like Zebra,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and it felt like Zebra,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and when he knocked it down it kicked like Zebra,</span>
   <span id="f000136">but he couldn’t see it.</span>
   <span id="f000137">So he said,</span>
   <span id="f000138">’Be quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000139">O you person without any form.</span>
   <span id="f000140">I am going to sit on your head till morning,</span>
   <span id="f000141">because there is something about you that I don’t understand.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">Presently he heard a grunt and a crash and a scramble,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and the Ethiopian called out,</span>
   <span id="f000144">’I’ve caught a thing that I can’t see.</span>
   <span id="f000145">It smells like Giraffe,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and it kicks like Giraffe,</span>
   <span id="f000147">but it hasn’t any form.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">’Don’t you trust it,’ said the Leopard.</span>
   <span id="f000149">’Sit on its head till the morning – same as me.</span>
   <span id="f000150">They haven’t any form – any of ’em.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">So they sat down on them hard till bright morning-time,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and then Leopard said,</span>
   <span id="f000153">’What have you at your end of the table,</span>
   <span id="f000154">Brother?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">The Ethiopian scratched his head and said,</span>
   <span id="f000156">’It ought to be ’sclusively a rich fulvous orange-tawny from head to heel,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and it ought to be Giraffe;</span>
   <span id="f000158">but it is covered all over with chestnut blotches.</span>
   <span id="f000159">What have you at your end of the table,</span>
   <span id="f000160">Brother?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">And the Leopard scratched his head and said,</span>
   <span id="f000162">’It ought to be ’sclusively a delicate greyish-fawn,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and it ought to be Zebra;</span>
   <span id="f000164">but it is covered all over with black and purple stripes.</span>
   <span id="f000165">What in the world have you been doing to yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000166">Zebra?</span>
   <span id="f000167">Don’t you know that if you were on the High Veldt I could see you ten miles off?</span>
   <span id="f000168">You haven’t any form.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">’Yes,’ said the Zebra,</span>
   <span id="f000170">’but this isn’t the High Veldt.</span>
   <span id="f000171">Can’t you see?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">’I can now,’ said the Leopard.</span>
   <span id="f000173">’But I couldn’t all yesterday.</span>
   <span id="f000174">How is it done?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">’Let us up,’ said the Zebra,</span>
   <span id="f000176">’and we will show you.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">They let the Zebra and the Giraffe get up;</span>
   <span id="f000178">and Zebra moved away to some little thorn-bushes where the sunlight fell all stripy,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and Giraffe moved off to some tallish trees where the shadows fell all blotchy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">’Now watch,’ said the Zebra and the Giraffe.</span>
   <span id="f000181">’This is the way it’s done.</span>
   <span id="f000182">One – two – three!</span>
   <span id="f000183">And where’s your breakfast?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">Leopard stared,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and Ethiopian stared,</span>
   <span id="f000186">but all they could see were stripy shadows and blotched shadows in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000187">but never a sign of Zebra and Giraffe.</span>
   <span id="f000188">They had just walked off and hidden themselves in the shadowy forest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">’Hi!</span>
   <span id="f000190">Hi!’ said the Ethiopian.</span>
   <span id="f000191">’That’s a trick worth learning.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Take a lesson by it,</span>
   <span id="f000193">Leopard.</span>
   <span id="f000194">You show up in this dark place like a bar of soap in a coal-scuttle.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">’Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000196">Ho!’ said the Leopard.</span>
   <span id="f000197">’Would it surprise you very much to know that you show up in this dark place like a mustard-plaster on a sack of coals?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000199">calling names won’t catch dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000200">said the Ethiopian.</span>
   <span id="f000201">’The long and the little of it is that we don’t match our backgrounds.</span>
   <span id="f000202">I’m going to take Baviaan’s advice.</span>
   <span id="f000203">He told me I ought to change;</span>
   <span id="f000204">and as I’ve nothing to change except my skin I’m going to change that.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">’What to?’ said the Leopard,</span>
   <span id="f000206">tremendously excited.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">’To a nice working blackish-brownish colour,</span>
   <span id="f000208">with a little purple in it,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and touches of slaty-blue.</span>
   <span id="f000210">It will be the very thing for hiding in hollows and behind trees.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">So he changed his skin then and there,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and the Leopard was more excited than ever;</span>
   <span id="f000213">he had never seen a man change his skin before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">’But what about me?’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000215">when the Ethiopian had worked his last little finger into his fine new black skin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">’You take Baviaan’s advice too.</span>
   <span id="f000217">He told you to go into spots.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">’So I did,’ said the Leopard.</span>
   <span id="f000219">I went into other spots as fast as I could.</span>
   <span id="f000220">I went into this spot with you,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and a lot of good it has done me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">’Oh,’ said the Ethiopian,</span>
   <span id="f000223">’Baviaan didn’t mean spots in South Africa.</span>
   <span id="f000224">He meant spots on your skin.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">’What’s the use of that?’ said the Leopard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">’Think of Giraffe,’ said the Ethiopian.</span>
   <span id="f000227">’Or if you prefer stripes,</span>
   <span id="f000228">think of Zebra.</span>
   <span id="f000229">They find their spots and stripes give them per-feet satisfaction.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">’Umm,’ said the Leopard.</span>
   <span id="f000231">’I wouldn’t look like Zebra – not for ever so.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000233">make up your mind,’ said the Ethiopian,</span>
   <span id="f000234">’because I’d hate to go hunting without you,</span>
   <span id="f000235">but I must if you insist on looking like a sun-flower against a tarred fence.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">’I’ll take spots,</span>
   <span id="f000237">then,’ said the Leopard;</span>
   <span id="f000238">’but don’t make ’em too vulgar-big.</span>
   <span id="f000239">I wouldn’t look like Giraffe – not for ever so.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">’I’ll make ’em with the tips of my fingers,’ said the Ethiopian.</span>
   <span id="f000241">’There’s plenty of black left on my skin still.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Stand over!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">Then the Ethiopian put his five fingers close together</span>
   <span id="f000244">(there was plenty of black left on his new skin still)</span>
   <span id="f000245">and pressed them all over the Leopard,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and wherever the five fingers touched they left five little black marks,</span>
   <span id="f000247">all close together.</span>
   <span id="f000248">You can see them on any Leopard’s skin you like,</span>
   <span id="f000249">Best Beloved.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Sometimes the fingers slipped and the marks got a little blurred;</span>
   <span id="f000251">but if you look closely at any Leopard now you will see that there are always five spots – off five fat black finger-tips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">’Now you are a beauty!’ said the Ethiopian.</span>
   <span id="f000253">’You can lie out on the bare ground and look like a heap of pebbles.</span>
   <span id="f000254">You can lie out on the naked rocks and look like a piece of pudding-stone.</span>
   <span id="f000255">You can lie out on a leafy branch and look like sunshine sifting through the leaves;</span>
   <span id="f000256">and you can lie right across the centre of a path and look like nothing in particular.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Think of that and purr!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">’But if I’m all this,’ said the Leopard,</span>
   <span id="f000259">’why didn’t you go spotty too?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000261">plain black’s best for a nigger,’ said the Ethiopian.</span>
   <span id="f000262">’Now come along and we’ll see if we can’t get even with Mr.&#160;One-Two-Three Where’s your Breakfast!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">So they went away and lived happily ever afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000264">Best Beloved.</span>
   <span id="f000265">That is all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000267">now and then you will hear grown-ups say,</span>
   <span id="f000268">’Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the Leopard his spots?’ I don’t think even grown-ups would keep on saying such a silly thing if the Leopard and the Ethiopian hadn’t done it once – do you?</span>
   <span id="f000269">But they will never do it again,</span>
   <span id="f000270">Best Beloved.</span>
   <span id="f000271">They are quite contented as they are.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000272">I am the Most Wise Baviaan,</span>
   <span id="f000273">saying in most wise tones,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000274">’Let us melt into the landscape – just us two by our lones.’<br /></span>
   <span id="f000275">People have come – in a carriage – calling.</span>
   <span id="f000276">But Mummy is there…</span>
   <span id="f000277">.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000278">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000279">I can go if you take me – Nurse says she don’t care.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000280">Let’s go up to the pig-sties and sit on the farmyard rails!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000281">Let’s say things to the bunnies,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and watch ’em skitter their tails!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000283">Let’s – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000284">anything,</span>
   <span id="f000285">daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000286">so long as it’s you and me,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000287">And going truly exploring,</span>
   <span id="f000288">and not being in till tea!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000289">Here’s your boots</span>
   <span id="f000290">(I’ve brought ’em),</span>
   <span id="f000291">and here’s your cap and stick,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000292">And here’s your pipe and tobacco.</span>
   <span id="f000293">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000294">come along out of it – quick.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

