<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Elephant’s Child</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">In the High and Far-Off Times the Elephant,</span>
   <span id="f000003">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000004">had no trunk.</span>
   <span id="f000005">He had only a blackish,</span>
   <span id="f000006">bulgy nose,</span>
   <span id="f000007">as big as a boot,</span>
   <span id="f000008">that he could wriggle about from side to side;</span>
   <span id="f000009">but he couldn’t pick up things with it.</span>
   <span id="f000010">But there was one Elephant – a new Elephant – an Elephant’s Child – who was full of ’satiable curtiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and that means he asked ever so many questions.</span>
   <span id="f000012">And he lived in Africa,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and he filled all Africa with his ’satiable curtiosities.</span>
   <span id="f000014">He asked his tall aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000015">the Ostrich,</span>
   <span id="f000016">why her tail-feathers grew just so,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and his tall aunt the Ostrich spanked him with her hard,</span>
   <span id="f000018">hard claw.</span>
   <span id="f000019">He asked his tall uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the Giraffe,</span>
   <span id="f000021">what made his skin spotty,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and his tall uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000023">the Giraffe,</span>
   <span id="f000024">spanked him with his hard,</span>
   <span id="f000025">hard hoof.</span>
   <span id="f000026">And still he was full of ’satiable curtiosity!</span>
   <span id="f000027">He asked his broad aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000028">the Hippopotamus,</span>
   <span id="f000029">why her eyes were red,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and his broad aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000031">the Hippopotamus,</span>
   <span id="f000032">spanked him with her broad,</span>
   <span id="f000033">broad hoof;</span>
   <span id="f000034">and he asked his hairy uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000035">the Baboon,</span>
   <span id="f000036">why melons tasted just so,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and his hairy uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000038">the Baboon,</span>
   <span id="f000039">spanked him with his hairy,</span>
   <span id="f000040">hairy paw.</span>
   <span id="f000041">And still he was full of ’satiable curtiosity!</span>
   <span id="f000042">He asked questions about everything that he saw,</span>
   <span id="f000043">or heard,</span>
   <span id="f000044">or felt,</span>
   <span id="f000045">or smelt,</span>
   <span id="f000046">or touched,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and all his uncles and his aunts spanked him.</span>
   <span id="f000048">And still he was full of ’satiable curtiosity!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">One fine morning in the middle of the Precession of the Equinoxes this ’satiable Elephant’s Child asked a new fine question that he had never asked before.</span>
   <span id="f000050">He asked,</span>
   <span id="f000051">’What does the Crocodile have for dinner?’ Then everybody said,</span>
   <span id="f000052">’Hush!’ in a loud and dretful tone,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and they spanked him immediately and directly,</span>
   <span id="f000054">without stopping,</span>
   <span id="f000055">for a long time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">By and by,</span>
   <span id="f000057">when that was finished,</span>
   <span id="f000058">he came upon Kolokolo Bird sitting in the middle of a wait-a-bit thorn-bush,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000060">’My father has spanked me,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and my mother has spanked me;</span>
   <span id="f000062">all my aunts and uncles have spanked me for my ’satiable curtiosity;</span>
   <span id="f000063">and still I want to know what the Crocodile has for dinner!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">Then Kolokolo Bird said,</span>
   <span id="f000065">with a mournful cry,</span>
   <span id="f000066">’Go to the banks of the great grey-green,</span>
   <span id="f000067">greasy Limpopo River,</span>
   <span id="f000068">all set about with fever-trees,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and find out.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">That very next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000071">when there was nothing left of the Equinoxes,</span>
   <span id="f000072">because the Precession had preceded according to precedent,</span>
   <span id="f000073">this ’satiable Elephant’s Child took a hundred pounds of bananas</span>
   <span id="f000074">(the little short red kind),</span>
   <span id="f000075">and a hundred pounds of sugar-cane</span>
   <span id="f000076">(the long purple kind),</span>
   <span id="f000077">and seventeen melons</span>
   <span id="f000078">(the greeny-crackly kind),</span>
   <span id="f000079">and said to all his dear families,</span>
   <span id="f000080">’Goodbye.</span>
   <span id="f000081">I am going to the great grey-green,</span>
   <span id="f000082">greasy Limpopo River,</span>
   <span id="f000083">all set about with fever-trees,</span>
   <span id="f000084">to find out what the Crocodile has for dinner.’ And they all spanked him once more for luck,</span>
   <span id="f000085">though he asked them most politely to stop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">Then he went away,</span>
   <span id="f000087">a little warm,</span>
   <span id="f000088">but not at all astonished,</span>
   <span id="f000089">eating melons,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and throwing the rind about,</span>
   <span id="f000091">because he could not pick it up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">He went from Graham’s Town to Kimberley,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and from Kimberley to Khama’s Country,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and from Khama’s Country he went east by north,</span>
   <span id="f000095">eating melons all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000096">till at last he came to the banks of the great grey-green,</span>
   <span id="f000097">greasy Limpopo River,</span>
   <span id="f000098">all set about with fever-trees,</span>
   <span id="f000099">precisely as Kolokolo Bird had said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">Now you must know and understand,</span>
   <span id="f000101">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000102">that till that very week,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and day,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and hour,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and minute,</span>
   <span id="f000106">this ’satiable Elephant’s Child had never seen a Crocodile,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and did not know what one was like.</span>
   <span id="f000108">It was all his ’satiable curtiosity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">The first thing that he found was a Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake curled round a rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">’’Scuse me,’ said the Elephant’s Child most politely,</span>
   <span id="f000111">’but have you seen such a thing as a Crocodile in these promiscuous parts?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">’Have I seen a Crocodile?’ said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake,</span>
   <span id="f000113">in a voice of dretful scorn.</span>
   <span id="f000114">’What will you ask me next?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">’’Scuse me,’ said the Elephant’s Child,</span>
   <span id="f000116">’but could you kindly tell me what he has for dinner?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake uncoiled himself very quickly from the rock,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and spanked the Elephant’s Child with his scalesome,</span>
   <span id="f000119">flailsome tail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">’That is odd,’ said the Elephant’s Child,</span>
   <span id="f000121">’because my father and my mother,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and my uncle and my aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000123">not to mention my other aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the Hippopotamus,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and my other uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000126">the Baboon,</span>
   <span id="f000127">have all spanked me for my ’satiable curtiosity – and I suppose this is the same thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">So he said good-bye very politely to the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and helped to coil him up on the rock again,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and went on,</span>
   <span id="f000131">a little warm,</span>
   <span id="f000132">but not at all astonished,</span>
   <span id="f000133">eating melons,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and throwing the rind about,</span>
   <span id="f000135">because he could not pick it up,</span>
   <span id="f000136">till he trod on what he thought was a log of wood at the very edge of the great grey-green,</span>
   <span id="f000137">greasy Limpopo River,</span>
   <span id="f000138">all set about with fever-trees.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">But it was really the Crocodile,</span>
   <span id="f000140">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and the Crocodile winked one eye – like this!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">’’Scuse me,’ said the Elephant’s Child most politely,</span>
   <span id="f000143">’but do you happen to have seen a Crocodile in these promiscuous parts?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">Then the Crocodile winked the other eye,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and lifted half his tail out of the mud;</span>
   <span id="f000146">and the Elephant’s Child stepped back most politely,</span>
   <span id="f000147">because he did not wish to be spanked again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">’Come hither,</span>
   <span id="f000149">Little One,’ said the Crocodile.</span>
   <span id="f000150">’Why do you ask such things?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">’’Scuse me,’ said the Elephant’s Child most politely,</span>
   <span id="f000152">’but my father has spanked me,</span>
   <span id="f000153">my mother has spanked me,</span>
   <span id="f000154">not to mention my tall aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000155">the Ostrich,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and my tall uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000157">the Giraffe,</span>
   <span id="f000158">who can kick ever so hard,</span>
   <span id="f000159">as well as my broad aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000160">the Hippopotamus,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and my hairy uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000162">the Baboon,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and including the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake,</span>
   <span id="f000164">with the scalesome,</span>
   <span id="f000165">flailsome tail,</span>
   <span id="f000166">just up the bank,</span>
   <span id="f000167">who spanks harder than any of them;</span>
   <span id="f000168">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000169">if it’s quite all the same to you,</span>
   <span id="f000170">I don’t want to be spanked any more.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">’Come hither,</span>
   <span id="f000172">Little One,’ said the Crocodile,</span>
   <span id="f000173">’for I am the Crocodile,’ and he wept crocodile-tears to show it was quite true.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">Then the Elephant’s Child grew all breathless,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and panted,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and kneeled down on the bank and said,</span>
   <span id="f000177">’You are the very person I have been looking for all these long days.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Will you please tell me what you have for dinner?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">’Come hither,</span>
   <span id="f000180">Little One,’ said the Crocodile,</span>
   <span id="f000181">’and I’ll whisper.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">Then the Elephant’s Child put his head down close to the Crocodile’s musky,</span>
   <span id="f000183">tusky mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and the Crocodile caught him by his little nose,</span>
   <span id="f000185">which up to that very week,</span>
   <span id="f000186">day,</span>
   <span id="f000187">hour,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and minute,</span>
   <span id="f000189">had been no bigger than a boot,</span>
   <span id="f000190">though much more useful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">’I think,</span>
   <span id="f000192">said the Crocodile – and he said it between his teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000193">like this – ’I think to-day I will begin with Elephant’s Child!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">At this,</span>
   <span id="f000195">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000196">the Elephant’s Child was much annoyed,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000198">speaking through his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000199">like this,</span>
   <span id="f000200">’Led go!</span>
   <span id="f000201">You are hurtig be!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake scuffled down from the bank and said,</span>
   <span id="f000203">’My young friend,</span>
   <span id="f000204">if you do not now,</span>
   <span id="f000205">immediately and instantly,</span>
   <span id="f000206">pull as hard as ever you can,</span>
   <span id="f000207">it is my opinion that your acquaintance in the large-pattern leather ulster’</span>
   <span id="f000208">(and by this he meant the Crocodile)</span>
   <span id="f000209">’will jerk you into yonder limpid stream before you can say Jack Robinson.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">This is the way Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snakes always talk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">Then the Elephant’s Child sat back on his little haunches,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and his nose began to stretch.</span>
   <span id="f000216">And the Crocodile floundered into the water,</span>
   <span id="f000217">making it all creamy with great sweeps of his tail,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and he pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and pulled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">And the Elephant’s Child’s nose kept on stretching;</span>
   <span id="f000222">and the Elephant’s Child spread all his little four legs and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and his nose kept on stretching;</span>
   <span id="f000226">and the Crocodile threshed his tail like an oar,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and he pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and at each pull the Elephant’s Child’s nose grew longer and longer – and it hurt him hijjus!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">Then the Elephant’s Child felt his legs slipping,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and he said through his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000233">which was now nearly five feet long,</span>
   <span id="f000234">’This is too butch for be!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake came down from the bank,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and knotted himself in a double-clove-hitch round the Elephant’s Child’s hind legs,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000238">’Rash and inexperienced traveller,</span>
   <span id="f000239">we will now seriously devote ourselves to a little high tension,</span>
   <span id="f000240">because if we do not,</span>
   <span id="f000241">it is my impression that yonder self-propelling man-of-war with the armour-plated upper deck’</span>
   <span id="f000242">(and by this,</span>
   <span id="f000243">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000244">he meant the Crocodile),</span>
   <span id="f000245">’will permanently vitiate your future career.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">That is the way all Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snakes always talk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">So he pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and the Elephant’s Child pulled,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and the Crocodile pulled;</span>
   <span id="f000250">but the Elephant’s Child and the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake pulled hardest;</span>
   <span id="f000251">and at last the Crocodile let go of the Elephant’s Child’s nose with a plop that you could hear all up and down the Limpopo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">Then the Elephant’s Child sat down most hard and sudden;</span>
   <span id="f000253">but first he was careful to say ’Thank you’ to the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake;</span>
   <span id="f000254">and next he was kind to his poor pulled nose,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and wrapped it all up in cool banana leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and hung it in the great grey-green,</span>
   <span id="f000257">greasy Limpopo to cool.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">’What are you doing that for?’ said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">’’Scuse me,’ said the Elephant’s Child,</span>
   <span id="f000260">’but my nose is badly out of shape,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and I am waiting for it to shrink.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">’Then you will have to wait a long time,</span>
   <span id="f000263">said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake.</span>
   <span id="f000264">’Some people do not know what is good for them.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">The Elephant’s Child sat there for three days waiting for his nose to shrink.</span>
   <span id="f000266">But it never grew any shorter,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and,</span>
   <span id="f000268">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000269">it made him squint.</span>
   <span id="f000270">For,</span>
   <span id="f000271">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000272">you will see and understand that the Crocodile had pulled it out into a really truly trunk same as all Elephants have to-day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">At the end of the third day a fly came and stung him on the shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and before he knew what he was doing he lifted up his trunk and hit that fly dead with the end of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">’’Vantage number one!’ said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake.</span>
   <span id="f000276">’You couldn’t have done that with a mere-smear nose.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Try and eat a little now.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">Before he thought what he was doing the Elephant’s Child put out his trunk and plucked a large bundle of grass,</span>
   <span id="f000279">dusted it clean against his fore-legs,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and stuffed it into his own mouth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">’Vantage number two!’ said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake.</span>
   <span id="f000282">’You couldn’t have done that with a mear-smear nose.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Don’t you think the sun is very hot here?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">’It is,’ said the Elephant’s Child,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and before he thought what he was doing he schlooped up a schloop of mud from the banks of the great grey-green,</span>
   <span id="f000286">greasy Limpopo,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and slapped it on his head,</span>
   <span id="f000288">where it made a cool schloopy-sloshy mud-cap all trickly behind his ears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">’Vantage number three!’ said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake.</span>
   <span id="f000290">’You couldn’t have done that with a mere-smear nose.</span>
   <span id="f000291">Now how do you feel about being spanked again?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">’’Scuse me,’ said the Elephant’s Child,</span>
   <span id="f000293">’but I should not like it at all.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">’How would you like to spank somebody?’ said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">’I should like it very much indeed,’ said the Elephant’s Child.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">’Well,’ said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake,</span>
   <span id="f000297">’you will find that new nose of yours very useful to spank people with.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">’Thank you,’ said the Elephant’s Child,</span>
   <span id="f000299">’I’ll remember that;</span>
   <span id="f000300">and now I think I’ll go home to all my dear families and try.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">So the Elephant’s Child went home across Africa frisking and whisking his trunk.</span>
   <span id="f000302">When he wanted fruit to eat he pulled fruit down from a tree,</span>
   <span id="f000303">instead of waiting for it to fall as he used to do.</span>
   <span id="f000304">When he wanted grass he plucked grass up from the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000305">instead of going on his knees as he used to do.</span>
   <span id="f000306">When the flies bit him he broke off the branch of a tree and used it as fly-whisk;</span>
   <span id="f000307">and he made himself a new,</span>
   <span id="f000308">cool,</span>
   <span id="f000309">slushy-squshy mud-cap whenever the sun was hot.</span>
   <span id="f000310">When he felt lonely walking through Africa he sang to himself down his trunk,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and the noise was louder than several brass bands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">He went especially out of his way to find a broad Hippopotamus</span>
   <span id="f000313">(she was no relation of his),</span>
   <span id="f000314">and he spanked her very hard,</span>
   <span id="f000315">to make sure that the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake had spoken the truth about his new trunk.</span>
   <span id="f000316">The rest of the time he picked up the melon rinds that he had dropped on his way to the Limpopo – for he was a Tidy Pachyderm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">One dark evening he came back to all his dear families,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and he coiled up his trunk and said,</span>
   <span id="f000319">’How do you do?’ They were very glad to see him,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and immediately said,</span>
   <span id="f000321">’Come here and be spanked for your ’satiable curtiosity.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">’Pooh,’ said the Elephant’s Child.</span>
   <span id="f000323">’I don’t think you peoples know anything about spanking;</span>
   <span id="f000324">but I do,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and I’ll show you.’ Then he uncurled his trunk and knocked two of his dear brothers head over heels.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">’O Bananas!’ said they,</span>
   <span id="f000327">’where did you learn that trick,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and what have you done to your nose?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">’I got a new one from the Crocodile on the banks of the great grey-green,</span>
   <span id="f000330">greasy Limpopo River,’ said the Elephant’s Child.</span>
   <span id="f000331">’I asked him what he had for dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and he gave me this to keep.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">’It looks very ugly,’ said his hairy uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000334">the Baboon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">’It does,’ said the Elephant’s Child.</span>
   <span id="f000336">’But it’s very useful,’ and he picked up his hairy uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000337">the Baboon,</span>
   <span id="f000338">by one hairy leg,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and hove him into a hornet’s nest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">Then that bad Elephant’s Child spanked all his dear families for a long time,</span>
   <span id="f000341">till they were very warm and greatly astonished.</span>
   <span id="f000342">He pulled out his tall Ostrich aunt’s tail-feathers;</span>
   <span id="f000343">and he caught his tall uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000344">the Giraffe,</span>
   <span id="f000345">by the hind-leg,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and dragged him through a thorn-bush;</span>
   <span id="f000347">and he shouted at his broad aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000348">the Hippopotamus,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and blew bubbles into her ear when she was sleeping in the water after meals;</span>
   <span id="f000350">but he never let any one touch Kolokolo Bird.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">At last things grew so exciting that his dear families went off one by one in a hurry to the banks of the great grey-green,</span>
   <span id="f000352">greasy Limpopo River,</span>
   <span id="f000353">all set about with fever-trees,</span>
   <span id="f000354">to borrow new noses from the Crocodile.</span>
   <span id="f000355">When they came back nobody spanked anybody any more;</span>
   <span id="f000356">and ever since that day,</span>
   <span id="f000357">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000358">all the Elephants you will ever see,</span>
   <span id="f000359">besides all those that you won’t,</span>
   <span id="f000360">have trunks precisely like the trunk of the ’satiable Elephant’s Child.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000361">I keep six honest serving-men:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000362">(They taught me all I knew)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000363">Their names are What and Where and When<br /></span>
   <span id="f000364">And How and Why and Who.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000365">I send them over land and sea,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000366">I send them east and west;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000367">But after they have worked for me,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000368">I give them all a rest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">I let them rest from nine till five.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000370">For I am busy then,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000371">As well as breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000372">lunch,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and tea,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000374">For they are hungry men:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000375">But different folk have different views:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000376">I know a person small – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000377">She keeps ten million serving-men,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000378">Who get no rest at all!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000379">She sends ’em abroad on her own affairs,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000380">From the second she opens her eyes – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000381">One million Hows,</span>
   <span id="f000382">two million Wheres,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000383">And seven million Whys!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

