<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Sing-Song of Old Man Kangaroo</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Not always was the Kangaroo as now we do behold him,</span>
   <span id="f000003">but a Different Animal with four short legs.</span>
   <span id="f000004">He was grey and he was woolly,</span>
   <span id="f000005">and his pride was inordinate:</span>
   <span id="f000006">he danced on an outcrop in the middle of Australia,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and he went to the Little God Nqa.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000008">He went to Nqa at six before breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000009">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000010">’Make me different from all other animals by five this afternoon.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">Up jumped Nqa from his seat on the sandflat and shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000012">’Go away!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">He was grey and he was woolly,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and his pride was inordinate:</span>
   <span id="f000015">he danced on a rock-ledge in the middle of Australia,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and he went to the Middle God Nquing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">He went to Nquing at eight after breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000018">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000019">’Make me different from all other animals;</span>
   <span id="f000020">make me,</span>
   <span id="f000021">also,</span>
   <span id="f000022">wonderfully popular by five this afternoon.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">Up jumped Nquing from his burrow in the spinifex and shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000024">’Go away!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">He was grey and he was woolly,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and his pride was inordinate:</span>
   <span id="f000027">he danced on a sandbank in the middle of Australia,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and he went to the Big God Nqong.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">He went to Nqong at ten before dinner-time,</span>
   <span id="f000030">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000031">’Make me different from all other animals;</span>
   <span id="f000032">make me popular and wonderfully run after by five this afternoon.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">Up jumped Nqong from his bath in the salt-pan and shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000034">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000035">I will!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">Nqong called Dingo – Yellow-Dog Dingo – always hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000037">dusty in the sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and showed him Kangaroo.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Nqong said,</span>
   <span id="f000040">’Dingo!</span>
   <span id="f000041">Wake up,</span>
   <span id="f000042">Dingo!</span>
   <span id="f000043">Do you see that gentleman dancing on an ashpit?</span>
   <span id="f000044">He wants to be popular and very truly run after.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Dingo,</span>
   <span id="f000046">make him SO!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">Up jumped Dingo – Yellow-Dog Dingo – and said,</span>
   <span id="f000048">’What,</span>
   <span id="f000049">that cat-rabbit?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">Off ran Dingo – Yellow-Dog Dingo – always hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000051">grinning like a coal-scuttle,</span>
   <span id="f000052">– ran after Kangaroo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">Off went the proud Kangaroo on his four little legs like a bunny.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">This,</span>
   <span id="f000055">O Beloved of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000056">ends the first part of the tale!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">He ran through the desert;</span>
   <span id="f000058">he ran through the mountains;</span>
   <span id="f000059">he ran through the salt-pans;</span>
   <span id="f000060">he ran through the reed-beds;</span>
   <span id="f000061">he ran through the blue gums;</span>
   <span id="f000062">he ran through the spinifex;</span>
   <span id="f000063">he ran till his front legs ached.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">He had to!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">Still ran Dingo – Yellow-Dog Dingo – always hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000066">grinning like a rat-trap,</span>
   <span id="f000067">never getting nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000068">never getting farther,</span>
   <span id="f000069">– ran after Kangaroo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">He had to!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">Still ran Kangaroo – Old Man Kangaroo.</span>
   <span id="f000072">He ran through the ti-trees;</span>
   <span id="f000073">he ran through the mulga;</span>
   <span id="f000074">he ran through the long grass;</span>
   <span id="f000075">he ran through the short grass;</span>
   <span id="f000076">he ran through the Tropics of Capricorn and Cancer;</span>
   <span id="f000077">he ran till his hind legs ached.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">He had to!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">Still ran Dingo – Yellow-Dog Dingo – hungrier and hungrier,</span>
   <span id="f000080">grinning like a horse-collar,</span>
   <span id="f000081">never getting nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000082">never getting farther;</span>
   <span id="f000083">and they came to the Wollgong River.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000085">there wasn’t any bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and there wasn’t any ferry-boat,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and Kangaroo didn’t know how to get over;</span>
   <span id="f000088">so he stood on his legs and hopped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">He had to!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">He hopped through the Flinders;</span>
   <span id="f000091">he hopped through the Cinders;</span>
   <span id="f000092">he hopped through the deserts in the middle of Australia.</span>
   <span id="f000093">He hopped like a Kangaroo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">First he hopped one yard;</span>
   <span id="f000095">then he hopped three yards;</span>
   <span id="f000096">then he hopped five yards;</span>
   <span id="f000097">his legs growing stronger;</span>
   <span id="f000098">his legs growing longer.</span>
   <span id="f000099">He hadn’t any time for rest or refreshment,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and he wanted them very much.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">Still ran Dingo – Yellow-Dog Dingo – very much bewildered,</span>
   <span id="f000102">very much hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and wondering what in the world or out of it made Old Man Kangaroo hop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">For he hopped like a cricket;</span>
   <span id="f000105">like a pea in a saucepan;</span>
   <span id="f000106">or a new rubber ball on a nursery floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">He had to!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">He tucked up his front legs;</span>
   <span id="f000109">he hopped on his hind legs;</span>
   <span id="f000110">he stuck out his tail for a balance-weight behind him;</span>
   <span id="f000111">and he hopped through the Darling Downs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">He had to!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">Still ran Dingo – Tired-Dog Dingo – hungrier and hungrier,</span>
   <span id="f000114">very much bewildered,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and wondering when in the world or out of it would Old Man Kangaroo stop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">Then came Nqong from his bath in the salt-pans,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000118">’It’s five o’clock.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">Down sat Dingo – Poor Dog Dingo – always hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000120">dusky in the sunshine;</span>
   <span id="f000121">hung out his tongue and howled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">Down sat Kangaroo – Old Man Kangaroo – stuck out his tail like a milking-stool behind him,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000124">’Thank goodness that’s finished!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">Then said Nqong,</span>
   <span id="f000126">who is always a gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000127">’Why aren’t you grateful to Yellow-Dog Dingo?</span>
   <span id="f000128">Why don’t you thank him for all he has done for you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">Then said Kangaroo – Tired Old Kangaroo – He’s chased me out of the homes of my childhood;</span>
   <span id="f000130">he’s chased me out of my regular meal-times;</span>
   <span id="f000131">he’s altered my shape so I’ll never get it back;</span>
   <span id="f000132">and he’s played Old Scratch with my legs.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">Then said Nqong,</span>
   <span id="f000134">’Perhaps I’m mistaken,</span>
   <span id="f000135">but didn’t you ask me to make you different from all other animals,</span>
   <span id="f000136">as well as to make you very truly sought after?</span>
   <span id="f000137">And now it is five o’clock.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">’Yes,’ said Kangaroo.</span>
   <span id="f000139">’I wish that I hadn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000140">I thought you would do it by charms and incantations,</span>
   <span id="f000141">but this is a practical joke.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">’Joke!’ said Nqong from his bath in the blue gums.</span>
   <span id="f000143">’Say that again and I’ll whistle up Dingo and run your hind legs off.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">’No,’ said the Kangaroo.</span>
   <span id="f000145">’I must apologise.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Legs are legs,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and you needn’t alter ’em so far as I am concerned.</span>
   <span id="f000148">I only meant to explain to Your Lordliness that I’ve had nothing to eat since morning,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and I’m very empty indeed.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">’Yes,’ said Dingo – Yellow-Dog Dingo,</span>
   <span id="f000151">– ’I am just in the same situation.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I’ve made him different from all other animals;</span>
   <span id="f000153">but what may I have for my tea?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">Then said Nqong from his bath in the salt-pan,</span>
   <span id="f000155">’Come and ask me about it tomorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000156">because I’m going to wash.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">So they were left in the middle of Australia,</span>
   <span id="f000158">Old Man Kangaroo and Yellow-Dog Dingo,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and each said,</span>
   <span id="f000160">’That’s your fault.’</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000161">This is the mouth-filling song<br /></span>
   <span id="f000162">Of the race that was run by a Boomer,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000163">Run in a single burst – only event of its kind – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000164">Started by big God Nqong from Warrigaborrigarooma,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000165">Old Man Kangaroo first:</span>
   <span id="f000166">Yellow-Dog Dingo behind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">Kangaroo bounded away,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000168">His back-legs working like pistons – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000169">Bounded from morning till dark,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000170">Twenty-five feet to a bound.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000171">Yellow-Dog Dingo lay<br /></span>
   <span id="f000172">Like a yellow cloud in the distance – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000173">Much too busy to bark.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000174">My!</span>
   <span id="f000175">but they covered the ground!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">Nobody knows where they went,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000177">Or followed the track that they flew in,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000178">For that Continent<br /></span>
   <span id="f000179">Hadn’t been given a name.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000180">They ran thirty degrees,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000181">From Torres Straits to the Leeuwin<br /></span>
   <span id="f000182">(Look at the Atlas,</span>
   <span id="f000183">please),<br /></span>
   <span id="f000184">And they ran back as they came.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">S’posing you could trot<br /></span>
   <span id="f000186">From Adelaide to the Pacific,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000187">For an afternoon’s run<br /></span>
   <span id="f000188">Half what these gentlemen did<br /></span>
   <span id="f000189">You would feel rather hot,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000190">But your legs would develop terrific – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000191">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000192">my importunate son,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000193">You’d be a Marvellous Kid!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

