<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Beginning of the Armadillos</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">This,</span>
   <span id="f000003">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000004">is another story of the High and Far-Off Times.</span>
   <span id="f000005">In the very middle of those times was a Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and he lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon,</span>
   <span id="f000007">eating shelly snails and things.</span>
   <span id="f000008">And he had a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000009">a Slow-Solid Tortoise,</span>
   <span id="f000010">who lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon,</span>
   <span id="f000011">eating green lettuces and things.</span>
   <span id="f000012">And so that was all right,</span>
   <span id="f000013">Best Beloved.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Do you see?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">But also,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and at the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000017">in those High and Far-Off Times,</span>
   <span id="f000018">there was a Painted Jaguar,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and he lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon too;</span>
   <span id="f000020">and he ate everything that he could catch.</span>
   <span id="f000021">When he could not catch deer or monkeys he would eat frogs and beetles;</span>
   <span id="f000022">and when he could not catch frogs and beetles he went to his Mother Jaguar,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and she told him how to eat hedgehogs and tortoises.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">She said to him ever so many times,</span>
   <span id="f000025">graciously waving her tail,</span>
   <span id="f000026">’My son,</span>
   <span id="f000027">when you find a Hedgehog you must drop him into the water and then he will uncoil,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and when you catch a Tortoise you must scoop him out of his shell with your paw.’ And so that was all right,</span>
   <span id="f000029">Best Beloved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">One beautiful night on the banks of the turbid Amazon,</span>
   <span id="f000031">Painted Jaguar found Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog and Slow-Solid Tortoise sitting under the trunk of a fallen tree.</span>
   <span id="f000032">They could not run away,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and so Stickly-Prickly curled himself up into a ball,</span>
   <span id="f000034">because he was a Hedgehog,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and Slow-Solid Tortoise drew in his head and feet into his shell as far as they would go,</span>
   <span id="f000036">because he was a Tortoise;</span>
   <span id="f000037">and so that was all right,</span>
   <span id="f000038">Best Beloved.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Do you see?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">’Now attend to me,’ said Painted Jaguar,</span>
   <span id="f000041">’because this is very important.</span>
   <span id="f000042">My mother said that when I meet a Hedgehog I am to drop him into the water and then he will uncoil,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and when I meet a Tortoise I am to scoop him out of his shell with my paw.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Now which of you is Hedgehog and which is Tortoise?</span>
   <span id="f000045">because,</span>
   <span id="f000046">to save my spots,</span>
   <span id="f000047">I can’t tell.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">’Are you sure of what your Mummy told you?’ said Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog.</span>
   <span id="f000049">’Are you quite sure?</span>
   <span id="f000050">Perhaps she said that when you uncoil a Tortoise you must shell him out the water with a scoop,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and when you paw a Hedgehog you must drop him on the shell.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">’Are you sure of what your Mummy told you?’ said Slow-and-Solid Tortoise.</span>
   <span id="f000053">’Are you quite sure?</span>
   <span id="f000054">Perhaps she said that when you water a Hedgehog you must drop him into your paw,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and when you meet a Tortoise you must shell him till he uncoils.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">’I don’t think it was at all like that,’ said Painted Jaguar,</span>
   <span id="f000057">but he felt a little puzzled;</span>
   <span id="f000058">’but,</span>
   <span id="f000059">please,</span>
   <span id="f000060">say it again more distinctly.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">’When you scoop water with your paw you uncoil it with a Hedgehog,’ said Stickly-Prickly.</span>
   <span id="f000062">’Remember that,</span>
   <span id="f000063">because it’s important.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">’But,’ said the Tortoise,</span>
   <span id="f000065">’when you paw your meat you drop it into a Tortoise with a scoop.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Why can’t you understand?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">’You are making my spots ache,’ said Painted Jaguar;</span>
   <span id="f000068">’and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000069">I didn’t want your advice at all.</span>
   <span id="f000070">I only wanted to know which of you is Hedgehog and which is Tortoise.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">’I shan’t tell you,’ said Stickly-Prickly,</span>
   <span id="f000072">’but you can scoop me out of my shell if you like.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">’Aha!’ said Painted Jaguar.</span>
   <span id="f000074">’Now I know you’re Tortoise.</span>
   <span id="f000075">You thought I wouldn’t!</span>
   <span id="f000076">Now I will.’ Painted Jaguar darted out his paddy-paw just as Stickly-Prickly curled himself up,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and of course Jaguar’s paddy-paw was just filled with prickles.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Worse than that,</span>
   <span id="f000079">he knocked Stickly-Prickly away and away into the woods and the bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000080">where it was too dark to find him.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Then he put his paddy-paw into his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and of course the prickles hurt him worse than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000083">As soon as he could speak he said,</span>
   <span id="f000084">’Now I know he isn’t Tortoise at all.</span>
   <span id="f000085">But’ – and then he scratched his head with his un-prickly paw – ’how do I know that this other is Tortoise?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">’But I am Tortoise,’ said Slow-and-Solid.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Your mother was quite right.</span>
   <span id="f000088">She said that you were to scoop me out of my shell with your paw.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Begin.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">’You didn’t say she said that a minute ago,</span>
   <span id="f000091">said Painted Jaguar,</span>
   <span id="f000092">sucking the prickles out of his paddy-paw.</span>
   <span id="f000093">’You said she said something quite different.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000095">suppose you say that I said that she said something quite different,</span>
   <span id="f000096">I don’t see that it makes any difference;</span>
   <span id="f000097">because if she said what you said I said she said,</span>
   <span id="f000098">it’s just the same as if I said what she said she said.</span>
   <span id="f000099">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000100">if you think she said that you were to uncoil me with a scoop,</span>
   <span id="f000101">instead of pawing me into drops with a shell,</span>
   <span id="f000102">I can’t help that,</span>
   <span id="f000103">can I?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">’But you said you wanted to be scooped out of your shell with my paw,’ said Painted Jaguar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">’If you’ll think again you’ll find that I didn’t say anything of the kind.</span>
   <span id="f000106">I said that your mother said that you were to scoop me out of my shell,’ said Slow-and-Solid.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">’What will happen if I do?’ said the Jaguar most sniffily and most cautious.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">’I don’t know,</span>
   <span id="f000109">because I’ve never been scooped out of my shell before;</span>
   <span id="f000110">but I tell you truly,</span>
   <span id="f000111">if you want to see me swim away you’ve only got to drop me into the water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">’I don’t believe it,’ said Painted Jaguar.</span>
   <span id="f000113">’You’ve mixed up all the things my mother told me to do with the things that you asked me whether I was sure that she didn’t say,</span>
   <span id="f000114">till I don’t know whether I’m on my head or my painted tail;</span>
   <span id="f000115">and now you come and tell me something I can understand,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and it makes me more mixy than before.</span>
   <span id="f000117">My mother told me that I was to drop one of you two into the water,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and as you seem so anxious to be dropped I think you don’t want to be dropped.</span>
   <span id="f000119">So jump into the turbid Amazon and be quick about it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">’I warn you that your Mummy won’t be pleased.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Don’t tell her I didn’t tell you,’ said Slow-Solid.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">’If you say another word about what my mother said – ’ the Jaguar answered,</span>
   <span id="f000123">but he had not finished the sentence before Slow-and-Solid quietly dived into the turbid Amazon,</span>
   <span id="f000124">swam under water for a long way,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and came out on the bank where Stickly-Prickly was waiting for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">’That was a very narrow escape,’ said Stickly-Prickly.</span>
   <span id="f000127">’I don’t rib Painted Jaguar.</span>
   <span id="f000128">What did you tell him that you were?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">’I told him truthfully that I was a truthful Tortoise,</span>
   <span id="f000130">but he wouldn’t believe it,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and he made me jump into the river to see if I was,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and I was,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and he is surprised.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Now he’s gone to tell his Mummy.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Listen to him!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">They could hear Painted Jaguar roaring up and down among the trees and the bushes by the side of the turbid Amazon,</span>
   <span id="f000137">till his Mummy came.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">’Son,</span>
   <span id="f000139">son!’ said his mother ever so many times,</span>
   <span id="f000140">graciously waving her tail,</span>
   <span id="f000141">’what have you been doing that you shouldn’t have done?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">’I tried to scoop something that said it wanted to be scooped out of its shell with my paw,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and my paw is full of per-ickles,’ said Painted Jaguar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">’Son,</span>
   <span id="f000145">son!’ said his mother ever so many times,</span>
   <span id="f000146">graciously waving her tail,</span>
   <span id="f000147">’by the prickles in your paddy-paw I see that that must have been a Hedgehog.</span>
   <span id="f000148">You should have dropped him into the water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">’I did that to the other thing;</span>
   <span id="f000150">and he said he was a Tortoise,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and I didn’t believe him,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and it was quite true,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and he has dived under the turbid Amazon,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and he won’t come up again,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and I haven’t anything at all to eat,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and I think we had better find lodgings somewhere else.</span>
   <span id="f000157">They are too clever on the turbid Amazon for poor me!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">’Son,</span>
   <span id="f000159">son!’ said his mother ever so many times,</span>
   <span id="f000160">graciously waving her tail,</span>
   <span id="f000161">’now attend to me and remember what I say.</span>
   <span id="f000162">A Hedgehog curls himself up into a ball and his prickles stick out every which way at once.</span>
   <span id="f000163">By this you may know the Hedgehog.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">’I don’t like this old lady one little bit,’ said Stickly-Prickly,</span>
   <span id="f000165">under the shadow of a large leaf.</span>
   <span id="f000166">’I wonder what else she knows?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">’A Tortoise can’t curl himself up,’ Mother Jaguar went on,</span>
   <span id="f000168">ever so many times,</span>
   <span id="f000169">graciously waving her tail.</span>
   <span id="f000170">’He only draws his head and legs into his shell.</span>
   <span id="f000171">By this you may know the tortoise.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">’I don’t like this old lady at all – at all,’ said Slow-and-Solid Tortoise.</span>
   <span id="f000173">’Even Painted Jaguar can’t forget those directions.</span>
   <span id="f000174">It’s a great pity that you can’t swim,</span>
   <span id="f000175">Stickly-Prickly.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">’Don’t talk to me,’ said Stickly-Prickly.</span>
   <span id="f000177">’Just think how much better it would be if you could curl up.</span>
   <span id="f000178">This is a mess!</span>
   <span id="f000179">Listen to Painted Jaguar.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">Painted Jaguar was sitting on the banks of the turbid Amazon sucking prickles out of his Paws and saying to himself –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000181">’Can’t curl,</span>
   <span id="f000182">but can swim – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000183">Slow-Solid,</span>
   <span id="f000184">that’s him!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000185">Curls up,</span>
   <span id="f000186">but can’t swim – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000187">Stickly-Prickly,</span>
   <span id="f000188">that’s him!’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000189">’He’ll never forget that this month of Sundays,’ said Stickly-Prickly.</span>
   <span id="f000190">’Hold up my chin,</span>
   <span id="f000191">Slow-and-Solid.</span>
   <span id="f000192">I’m going to try to learn to swim.</span>
   <span id="f000193">It may be useful.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">’Excellent!’ said Slow-and-Solid;</span>
   <span id="f000195">and he held up Stickly-Prickly’s chin,</span>
   <span id="f000196">while Stickly-Prickly kicked in the waters of the turbid Amazon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">’You’ll make a fine swimmer yet,’ said Slow-and-Solid.</span>
   <span id="f000198">’Now,</span>
   <span id="f000199">if you can unlace my back-plates a little,</span>
   <span id="f000200">I’ll see what I can do towards curling up.</span>
   <span id="f000201">It may be useful.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">Stickly-Prickly helped to unlace Tortoise’s back-plates,</span>
   <span id="f000203">so that by twisting and straining Slow-and-Solid actually managed to curl up a tiddy wee bit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">’Excellent!’ said Stickly-Prickly;</span>
   <span id="f000205">’but I shouldn’t do any more just now.</span>
   <span id="f000206">It’s making you black in the face.</span>
   <span id="f000207">Kindly lead me into the water once again and I’ll practice that side-stroke which you say is so easy.’ And so Stickly-Prickly practiced,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and Slow-Solid swam alongside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">’Excellent!’ said Slow-and-Solid.</span>
   <span id="f000210">’A little more practice will make you a regular whale.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000212">if I may trouble you to unlace my back and front plates two holes more,</span>
   <span id="f000213">I’ll try that fascinating bend that you say is so easy.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Won’t Painted Jaguar be surprised!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">’Excellent!’ said Stickly-Prickly,</span>
   <span id="f000216">all wet from the turbid Amazon.</span>
   <span id="f000217">’I declare,</span>
   <span id="f000218">I shouldn’t know you from one of my own family.</span>
   <span id="f000219">Two holes,</span>
   <span id="f000220">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000221">you said?</span>
   <span id="f000222">A little more expression,</span>
   <span id="f000223">please,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and don’t grunt quite so much,</span>
   <span id="f000225">or Painted Jaguar may hear us.</span>
   <span id="f000226">When you’ve finished,</span>
   <span id="f000227">I want to try that long dive which you say is so easy.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Won’t Painted Jaguar be surprised!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">And so Stickly-Prickly dived,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and Slow-and-Solid dived alongside.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">’Excellent!’ said Slow-and-Solid.</span>
   <span id="f000232">’A leetle more attention to holding your breath and you will be able to keep house at the bottom of the turbid Amazon.</span>
   <span id="f000233">Now I’ll try that exercise of putting my hind legs round my ears which you say is so peculiarly comfortable.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Won’t Painted Jaguar be surprised!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">’Excellent!’ said Stickly-Prickly.</span>
   <span id="f000236">’But it’s straining your back-plates a little.</span>
   <span id="f000237">They are all overlapping now,</span>
   <span id="f000238">instead of lying side by side.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000240">that’s the result of exercise,’ said Slow-and-Solid.</span>
   <span id="f000241">’I’ve noticed that your prickles seem to be melting into one another,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and that you’re growing to look rather more like a pinecone,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and less like a chestnut-burr,</span>
   <span id="f000244">than you used to.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">’Am I?’ said Stickly-Prickly.</span>
   <span id="f000246">’That comes from my soaking in the water.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000248">won’t Painted Jaguar be surprised!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">They went on with their exercises,</span>
   <span id="f000250">each helping the other,</span>
   <span id="f000251">till morning came;</span>
   <span id="f000252">and when the sun was high they rested and dried themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000253">Then they saw that they were both of them quite different from what they had been.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">’Stickly-Prickly,’ said Tortoise after breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000255">’I am not what I was yesterday;</span>
   <span id="f000256">but I think that I may yet amuse Painted Jaguar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">’That was the very thing I was thinking just now,’ said Stickly-Prickly.</span>
   <span id="f000258">’I think scales are a tremendous improvement on prickles – to say nothing of being able to swim.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000260">won’t Painted Jaguar be surprised!</span>
   <span id="f000261">Let’s go and find him.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">By and by they found Painted Jaguar,</span>
   <span id="f000263">still nursing his paddy-paw that had been hurt the night before.</span>
   <span id="f000264">He was so astonished that he fell three times backward over his own painted tail without stopping.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">’Good morning!’ said Stickly-Prickly.</span>
   <span id="f000266">’And how is your dear gracious Mummy this morning?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">’She is quite well,</span>
   <span id="f000268">thank you,’ said Painted Jaguar;</span>
   <span id="f000269">’but you must forgive me if I do not at this precise moment recall your name.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">’That’s unkind of you,’ said Stickly-Prickly,</span>
   <span id="f000271">’seeing that this time yesterday you tried to scoop me out of my shell with your paw.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">’But you hadn’t any shell.</span>
   <span id="f000273">It was all prickles,’ said Painted Jaguar.</span>
   <span id="f000274">’I know it was.</span>
   <span id="f000275">Just look at my paw!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">’You told me to drop into the turbid Amazon and be drowned,’ said Slow-Solid.</span>
   <span id="f000277">’Why are you so rude and forgetful to-day?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">’Don’t you remember what your mother told you?’ said Stickly-Prickly,</span>
   <span id="f000279">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000280">’Can’t curl,</span>
   <span id="f000281">but can swim – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000282">Stickly-Prickly,</span>
   <span id="f000283">that’s him!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000284">Curls up,</span>
   <span id="f000285">but can’t swim – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000286">Slow-Solid,</span>
   <span id="f000287">that’s him!’</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000288">Then they both curled themselves up and rolled round and round Painted Jaguar till his eyes turned truly cart-wheels in his head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">Then he went to fetch his mother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">’Mother,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000291">’there are two new animals in the woods to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and the one that you said couldn’t swim,</span>
   <span id="f000293">swims,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and the one that you said couldn’t curl up,</span>
   <span id="f000295">curls;</span>
   <span id="f000296">and they’ve gone shares in their prickles,</span>
   <span id="f000297">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000298">because both of them are scaly all over,</span>
   <span id="f000299">instead of one being smooth and the other very prickly;</span>
   <span id="f000300">and,</span>
   <span id="f000301">besides that,</span>
   <span id="f000302">they are rolling round and round in circles,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and I don’t feel comfy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">’Son,</span>
   <span id="f000305">son!’ said Mother Jaguar ever so many times,</span>
   <span id="f000306">graciously waving her tail,</span>
   <span id="f000307">’a Hedgehog is a Hedgehog,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and can’t be anything but a Hedgehog;</span>
   <span id="f000309">and a Tortoise is a Tortoise,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and can never be anything else.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">’But it isn’t a Hedgehog,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and it isn’t a Tortoise.</span>
   <span id="f000313">It’s a little bit of both,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and I don’t know its proper name.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">’Nonsense!’ said Mother Jaguar.</span>
   <span id="f000316">’Everything has its proper name.</span>
   <span id="f000317">I should call it “Armadillo” till I found out the real one.</span>
   <span id="f000318">And I should leave it alone.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">So Painted Jaguar did as he was told,</span>
   <span id="f000320">especially about leaving them alone;</span>
   <span id="f000321">but the curious thing is that from that day to this,</span>
   <span id="f000322">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000323">no one on the banks of the turbid Amazon has ever called Stickly-Prickly and Slow-Solid anything except Armadillo.</span>
   <span id="f000324">There are Hedgehogs and Tortoises in other places,</span>
   <span id="f000325">of course</span>
   <span id="f000326">(there are some in my garden);</span>
   <span id="f000327">but the real old and clever kind,</span>
   <span id="f000328">with their scales lying lippety-lappety one over the other,</span>
   <span id="f000329">like pine-cone scales,</span>
   <span id="f000330">that lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon in the High and Far-Off Days,</span>
   <span id="f000331">are always called Armadillos,</span>
   <span id="f000332">because they were so clever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">So that;</span>
   <span id="f000334">all right,</span>
   <span id="f000335">Best Beloved.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Do you see?</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000337">I’ve never sailed the Amazon,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000338">I’ve never reached Brazil;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000339">But the Don and Magdelana,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000340">They can go there when they will!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000342">weekly from Southampton,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000343">Great steamers,</span>
   <span id="f000344">white and gold,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000345">Go rolling down to Rio<br /></span>
   <span id="f000346">(Roll down – roll down to Rio!)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000347">And I’d like to roll to Rio<br /></span>
   <span id="f000348">Some day before I’m old!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">I’ve never seen a Jaguar,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000350">Nor yet an Armadill<br /></span>
   <span id="f000351">O dilloing in his armour,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000352">And I s’pose I never will,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">Unless I go to Rio<br /></span>
   <span id="f000354">These wonders to behold – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000355">Roll down – roll down to Rio – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000356">Roll really down to Rio!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000357">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000358">I’d love to roll to Rio<br /></span>
   <span id="f000359">Some day before I’m old!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track08">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

