<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">How the First Letter was Written</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Once upon a most early time was a Neolithic man.</span>
   <span id="f000003">He was not a Jute or an Angle,</span>
   <span id="f000004">or even a Dravidian,</span>
   <span id="f000005">which he might well have been,</span>
   <span id="f000006">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000007">but never mind why.</span>
   <span id="f000008">He was a Primitive,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and he lived cavily in a Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and he wore very few clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and he couldn’t read and he couldn’t write and he didn’t want to,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and except when he was hungry he was quite happy.</span>
   <span id="f000013">His name was Tegumai Bopsulai,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and that means,</span>
   <span id="f000015">’Man-who-does-not-put-his-foot-forward-in-a-hurry’;</span>
   <span id="f000016">but we,</span>
   <span id="f000017">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000018">will call him Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000019">for short.</span>
   <span id="f000020">And his wife’s name was Teshumai Tewindrow,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and that means,</span>
   <span id="f000022">’Lady-who-asks-a-very-many-questions’;</span>
   <span id="f000023">but we,</span>
   <span id="f000024">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000025">will call her Teshumai,</span>
   <span id="f000026">for short.</span>
   <span id="f000027">And his little girl-daughter’s name was Taffimai Metallumai,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and that means,</span>
   <span id="f000029">’Small-person-without-any-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked’;</span>
   <span id="f000030">but I’m going to call her Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000031">And she was Tegumai Bopsulai’s Best Beloved and her own Mummy’s Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and she was not spanked half as much as was good for her;</span>
   <span id="f000033">and they were all three very happy.</span>
   <span id="f000034">As soon as Taffy could run about she went everywhere with her Daddy Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and sometimes they would not come home to the Cave till they were hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and then Teshumai Tewindrow would say,</span>
   <span id="f000037">’Where in the world have you two been to,</span>
   <span id="f000038">to get so shocking dirty?</span>
   <span id="f000039">Really,</span>
   <span id="f000040">my Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000041">you’re no better than my Taffy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">Now attend and listen!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">One day Tegumai Bopsulai went down through the beaver-swamp to the Wagai river to spear carp-fish for dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and Taffy went too.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Tegumai’s spear was made of wood with shark’s teeth at the end,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and before he had caught any fish at all he accidentally broke it clean across by jabbing it down too hard on the bottom of the river.</span>
   <span id="f000047">They were miles and miles from home</span>
   <span id="f000048">(of course they had their lunch with them in a little bag),</span>
   <span id="f000049">and Tegumai had forgotten to bring any extra spears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">’Here’s a pretty kettle of fish!’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000051">’It will take me half the day to mend this.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">’There’s your big black spear at home,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000053">’Let me run back to the Cave and ask Mummy to give it me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">’It’s too far for your little fat legs,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000055">’Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000056">you might fall into the beaver-swamp and be drowned.</span>
   <span id="f000057">We must make the best of a bad job.’ He sat down and took out a little leather mendy-bag,</span>
   <span id="f000058">full of reindeer-sinews and strips of leather,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and lumps of bee’s-wax and resin,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and began to mend the spear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">Taffy sat down too,</span>
   <span id="f000062">with her toes in the water and her chin in her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and thought very hard.</span>
   <span id="f000064">Then she said – ’I say,</span>
   <span id="f000065">Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000066">it’s an awful nuisance that you and I don’t know how to write,</span>
   <span id="f000067">isn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000068">If we did we could send a message for the new spear.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000069">’Taffy,’ said Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000070">’how often have I told you not to use slang?</span>
   <span id="f000071">“Awful” isn’t a pretty word,</span>
   <span id="f000072">but it could be a convenience,</span>
   <span id="f000073">now you mention it,</span>
   <span id="f000074">if we could write home.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">Just then a Stranger-man came along the river,</span>
   <span id="f000076">but he belonged to a far tribe,</span>
   <span id="f000077">the Tewaras,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and he did not understand one word of Tegumai’s language.</span>
   <span id="f000079">He stood on the bank and smiled at Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000080">because he had a little girl-daughter Of his own at home.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Tegumai drew a hank of deer-sinews from his mendy-bag and began to mend his spear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">’Come here,</span>
   <span id="f000083">said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000084">’Do you know where my Mummy lives?’ And the Stranger-man said ’Um!’ being,</span>
   <span id="f000085">as you know,</span>
   <span id="f000086">a Tewara.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">’Silly!’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and she stamped her foot,</span>
   <span id="f000089">because she saw a shoal of very big carp going up the river just when her Daddy couldn’t use his spear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">’Don’t bother grown-ups,’ said Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000091">so busy with his spear-mending that he did not turn round.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">’I aren’t,</span>
   <span id="f000093">said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000094">’I only want him to do what I want him to do,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and he won’t understand.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">’Then don’t bother me,</span>
   <span id="f000097">said Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and he went on pulling and straining at the deer-sinews with his mouth full of loose ends.</span>
   <span id="f000099">The Stranger-man – a genuine Tewara he was – sat down on the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and Taffy showed him what her Daddy was doing.</span>
   <span id="f000101">The Stranger-man thought,</span>
   <span id="f000102">this is a very wonderful child.</span>
   <span id="f000103">She stamps her foot at me and she makes faces.</span>
   <span id="f000104">She must be the daughter of that noble Chief who is so great that he won’t take any notice of me.’ So he smiled more politely than ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">’Now,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000106">’I want you to go to my Mummy,</span>
   <span id="f000107">because your legs are longer than mine,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and you won’t fall into the beaver-swamp,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and ask for Daddy’s other spear – the one with the black handle that hangs over our fireplace.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">The Stranger-man</span>
   <span id="f000111">(and he was a Tewara)</span>
   <span id="f000112">thought,</span>
   <span id="f000113">’This is a very,</span>
   <span id="f000114">very wonderful child.</span>
   <span id="f000115">She waves her arms and she shouts at me,</span>
   <span id="f000116">but I don’t understand a word of what she says.</span>
   <span id="f000117">But if I don’t do what she wants,</span>
   <span id="f000118">I greatly fear that that haughty Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000119">Man-who-turns-his-back-on-callers,</span>
   <span id="f000120">will be angry.’ He got up and twisted a big flat piece of bark off a birch-tree and gave it to Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000121">He did this,</span>
   <span id="f000122">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000123">to show that his heart was as white as the birch-bark and that he meant no harm;</span>
   <span id="f000124">but Taffy didn’t quite understand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">’Oh!’ said she.</span>
   <span id="f000126">’Now I see!</span>
   <span id="f000127">You want my Mummy’s living-address?</span>
   <span id="f000128">Of course I can’t write,</span>
   <span id="f000129">but I can draw pictures if I’ve anything sharp to scratch with.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Please lend me the shark’s tooth off your necklace.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">The Stranger-man</span>
   <span id="f000132">(and he was a Tewara)</span>
   <span id="f000133">didn’t say anything,</span>
   <span id="f000134">So Taffy put up her little hand and pulled at the beautiful bead and seed and shark-tooth necklace round his neck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">The Stranger-man</span>
   <span id="f000136">(and he was a Tewara)</span>
   <span id="f000137">thought,</span>
   <span id="f000138">’This is a very,</span>
   <span id="f000139">very,</span>
   <span id="f000140">very wonderful child.</span>
   <span id="f000141">The shark’s tooth on my necklace is a magic shark’s tooth,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and I was always told that if anybody touched it without my leave they would immediately swell up or burst,</span>
   <span id="f000143">but this child doesn’t swell up or burst,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and that important Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000145">Man-who-attends-strictly-to-his-business,</span>
   <span id="f000146">who has not yet taken any notice of me at all,</span>
   <span id="f000147">doesn’t seem to be afraid that she will swell up or burst.</span>
   <span id="f000148">I had better be more polite.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">So he gave Taffy the shark’s tooth,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and she lay down flat on her tummy with her legs in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000151">like some people on the drawing-room floor when they want to draw pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and she said,</span>
   <span id="f000153">’Now I’ll draw you some beautiful pictures!</span>
   <span id="f000154">You can look over my shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000155">but you mustn’t joggle.</span>
   <span id="f000156">First I’ll draw Daddy fishing.</span>
   <span id="f000157">It isn’t very like him;</span>
   <span id="f000158">but Mummy will know,</span>
   <span id="f000159">because I’ve drawn his spear all broken.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000161">now I’ll draw the other spear that he wants,</span>
   <span id="f000162">the black-handled spear.</span>
   <span id="f000163">It looks as if it was sticking in Daddy’s back,</span>
   <span id="f000164">but that’s because the shark’s tooth slipped and this piece of bark isn’t big enough.</span>
   <span id="f000165">That’s the spear I want you to fetch;</span>
   <span id="f000166">so I’ll draw a picture of me myself ’splaining to you.</span>
   <span id="f000167">My hair doesn’t stand up like I’ve drawn,</span>
   <span id="f000168">but it’s easier to draw that way.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Now I’ll draw you.</span>
   <span id="f000170">I think you’re very nice really,</span>
   <span id="f000171">but I can’t make you pretty in the picture,</span>
   <span id="f000172">so you mustn’t be ’fended.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Are you ’fended?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">The Stranger-man</span>
   <span id="f000175">(and he was a Tewara)</span>
   <span id="f000176">smiled.</span>
   <span id="f000177">He thought,</span>
   <span id="f000178">’There must be a big battle going to be fought somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and this extraordinary child,</span>
   <span id="f000180">who takes my magic shark’s tooth but who does not swell up or burst,</span>
   <span id="f000181">is telling me to call all the great Chief’s tribe to help him.</span>
   <span id="f000182">He is a great Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000183">or he would have noticed me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">’Look,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000185">drawing very hard and rather scratchily,</span>
   <span id="f000186">’now I’ve drawn you,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and I’ve put the spear that Daddy wants into your hand,</span>
   <span id="f000188">just to remind you that you’re to bring it.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Now I’ll show you how to find my Mummy’s living-address.</span>
   <span id="f000190">You go along till you come to two trees</span>
   <span id="f000191">(those are trees),</span>
   <span id="f000192">and then you go over a hill</span>
   <span id="f000193">(that’s a hill),</span>
   <span id="f000194">and then you come into a beaver-swamp all full of beavers.</span>
   <span id="f000195">I haven’t put in all the beavers,</span>
   <span id="f000196">because I can’t draw beavers,</span>
   <span id="f000197">but I’ve drawn their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and that’s all you’ll see of them when you cross the swamp.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Mind you don’t fall in!</span>
   <span id="f000200">Then our Cave is just beyond the beaver-swamp.</span>
   <span id="f000201">It isn’t as high as the hills really,</span>
   <span id="f000202">but I can’t draw things very small.</span>
   <span id="f000203">That’s my Mummy outside.</span>
   <span id="f000204">She is beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000205">She is the most beautifullest Mummy there ever was,</span>
   <span id="f000206">but she won’t be ’fended when she sees I’ve drawn her so plain.</span>
   <span id="f000207">She’ll be pleased of me because I can draw.</span>
   <span id="f000208">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000209">in case you forget,</span>
   <span id="f000210">I’ve drawn the spear that Daddy wants outside our Cave.</span>
   <span id="f000211">It’s inside really,</span>
   <span id="f000212">but you show the picture to my Mummy and she’ll give it you.</span>
   <span id="f000213">I’ve made her holding up her hands,</span>
   <span id="f000214">because I know she’ll be so pleased to see you.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Isn’t it a beautiful picture?</span>
   <span id="f000216">And do you quite understand,</span>
   <span id="f000217">or shall I ’splain again?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">The Stranger-man</span>
   <span id="f000219">(and he was a Tewara)</span>
   <span id="f000220">looked at the picture and nodded very hard.</span>
   <span id="f000221">He said to himself,’ If I do not fetch this great Chief’s tribe to help him,</span>
   <span id="f000222">he will be slain by his enemies who are coming up on all sides with spears.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Now I see why the great Chief pretended not to notice me!</span>
   <span id="f000224">He feared that his enemies were hiding in the bushes and would see him.</span>
   <span id="f000225">Therefore he turned to me his back,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and let the wise and wonderful child draw the terrible picture showing me his difficulties.</span>
   <span id="f000227">I will away and get help for him from his tribe.’ He did not even ask Taffy the road,</span>
   <span id="f000228">but raced off into the bushes like the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000229">with the birch-bark in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and Taffy sat down most pleased.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">Now this is the picture that Taffy had drawn for him!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">’What have you been doing,</span>
   <span id="f000233">Taffy?’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000234">He had mended his spear and was carefully waving it to and fro.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">’It’s a little berangement of my own,</span>
   <span id="f000236">Daddy dear,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000237">’If you won’t ask me questions,</span>
   <span id="f000238">you’ll know all about it in a little time,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and you’ll be surprised.</span>
   <span id="f000240">You don’t know how surprised you’ll be,</span>
   <span id="f000241">Daddy!</span>
   <span id="f000242">Promise you’ll be surprised.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">’Very well,’ said Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and went on fishing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">The Stranger-man – did you know he was a Tewara?</span>
   <span id="f000246">– hurried away with the picture and ran for some miles,</span>
   <span id="f000247">till quite by accident he found Teshumai Tewindrow at the door of her Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000248">talking to some other Neolithic ladies who had come in to a Primitive lunch.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Taffy was very like Teshumai,</span>
   <span id="f000250">especially about the upper part of the face and the eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000251">so the Stranger-man – always a pure Tewara – smiled politely and handed Teshumai the birch-bark.</span>
   <span id="f000252">He had run hard,</span>
   <span id="f000253">so that he panted,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and his legs were scratched with brambles,</span>
   <span id="f000255">but he still tried to be polite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">As soon as Teshumai saw the picture she screamed like anything and flew at the Stranger-man.</span>
   <span id="f000257">The other Neolithic ladies at once knocked him down and sat on him in a long line of six,</span>
   <span id="f000258">while Teshumai pulled his hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">’It’s as plain as the nose on this Stranger-man’s face,’ she said.</span>
   <span id="f000260">’He has stuck my Tegumai all full of spears,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and frightened poor Taffy so that her hair stands all on end;</span>
   <span id="f000262">and not content with that,</span>
   <span id="f000263">he brings me a horrid picture of how it was done.</span>
   <span id="f000264">Look!’ She showed the picture to all the Neolithic ladies sitting patiently on the Stranger-man.</span>
   <span id="f000265">’Here is my Tegumai with his arm broken;</span>
   <span id="f000266">here is a spear sticking into his back;</span>
   <span id="f000267">here is a man with a spear ready to throw;</span>
   <span id="f000268">here is another man throwing a spear from a Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and here are a whole pack of people’</span>
   <span id="f000270">(they were Taffy’s beavers really,</span>
   <span id="f000271">but they did look rather like people)</span>
   <span id="f000272">’coming up behind Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Isn’t it shocking!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">’Most shocking!’ said the Neolithic ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and they filled the Stranger-man’s hair with mud</span>
   <span id="f000276">(at which he was surprised),</span>
   <span id="f000277">and they beat upon the Reverberating Tribal Drums,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and called together all the chiefs of the Tribe of Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000279">with their Hetmans and Dolmans,</span>
   <span id="f000280">all Neguses,</span>
   <span id="f000281">Woons,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and Akhoonds of the organisation,</span>
   <span id="f000283">in addition to the Warlocks,</span>
   <span id="f000284">Angekoks,</span>
   <span id="f000285">Juju-men,</span>
   <span id="f000286">Bonzes,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000288">who decided that before they chopped the Stranger-man’s head off he should instantly lead them down to the river and show them where he had hidden poor Taffy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">By this time the Stranger-man</span>
   <span id="f000290">(in spite of being a Tewara)</span>
   <span id="f000291">was really annoyed.</span>
   <span id="f000292">They had filled his hair quite solid with mud;</span>
   <span id="f000293">they had rolled him up and down on knobby pebbles;</span>
   <span id="f000294">they had sat upon him in a long line of six;</span>
   <span id="f000295">they had thumped him and bumped him till he could hardly breathe;</span>
   <span id="f000296">and though he did not understand their language,</span>
   <span id="f000297">he was almost sure that the names the Neolithic ladies called him were not ladylike.</span>
   <span id="f000298">However,</span>
   <span id="f000299">he said nothing till all the Tribe of Tegumai were assembled,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and then he led them back to the bank of the Wagai river,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and there they found Taffy making daisy-chains,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and Tegumai carefully spearing small carp with his mended spear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000304">you have been quick!’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000305">’But why did you bring so many people?</span>
   <span id="f000306">Daddy dear,</span>
   <span id="f000307">this is my surprise.</span>
   <span id="f000308">Are you surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000309">Daddy?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">’Very,’ said Tegumai;</span>
   <span id="f000311">’but it has ruined all my fishing for the day.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000313">the whole dear,</span>
   <span id="f000314">kind,</span>
   <span id="f000315">nice,</span>
   <span id="f000316">clean,</span>
   <span id="f000317">quiet Tribe is here,</span>
   <span id="f000318">Taffy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">And so they were.</span>
   <span id="f000320">First of all walked Teshumai Tewindrow and the Neolithic ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000321">tightly holding on to the Stranger-man,</span>
   <span id="f000322">whose hair was full of mud</span>
   <span id="f000323">(although he was a Tewara).</span>
   <span id="f000324">Behind them came the Head Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000325">the Vice-Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000326">the Deputy and Assistant Chiefs</span>
   <span id="f000327">(all armed to the upper teeth),</span>
   <span id="f000328">the Hetmans and Heads of Hundreds,</span>
   <span id="f000329">Platoffs with their Platoons,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and Dolmans with their Detachments;</span>
   <span id="f000331">Woons,</span>
   <span id="f000332">Neguses,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and Akhoonds ranking in the rear</span>
   <span id="f000334">(still armed to the teeth).</span>
   <span id="f000335">Behind them was the Tribe in hierarchical order,</span>
   <span id="f000336">from owners of four caves</span>
   <span id="f000337">(one for each season),</span>
   <span id="f000338">a private reindeer-run,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and two salmon-leaps,</span>
   <span id="f000340">to feudal and prognathous Villeins,</span>
   <span id="f000341">semi-entitled to half a bearskin of winter nights,</span>
   <span id="f000342">seven yards from the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and adscript serfs,</span>
   <span id="f000344">holding the reversion of a scraped marrow-bone under heriot</span>
   <span id="f000345">(Aren’t those beautiful words,</span>
   <span id="f000346">Best Beloved?).</span>
   <span id="f000347">They were all there,</span>
   <span id="f000348">prancing and shouting,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and they frightened every fish for twenty miles,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and Tegumai thanked them in a fluid Neolithic oration.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">Then Teshumai Tewindrow ran down and kissed and hugged Taffy very much indeed;</span>
   <span id="f000352">but the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai took Tegumai by the top-knot feathers and shook him severely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">’Explain!</span>
   <span id="f000354">Explain!</span>
   <span id="f000355">Explain!’ cried all the Tribe of Tegumai.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">’Goodness’ sakes alive!’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000357">’Let go of my top-knot.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Can’t a man break his carp-spear without the whole countryside descending on him?</span>
   <span id="f000359">You’re a very interfering people.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">’I don’t believe you’ve brought my Daddy’s black-handled spear after all,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000361">’And what are you doing to my nice Stranger-man?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">They were thumping him by twos and threes and tens till his eyes turned round and round.</span>
   <span id="f000363">He could only gasp and point at Taffy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">’Where are the bad people who speared you,</span>
   <span id="f000365">my darling?’ said Teshumai Tewindrow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">’There weren’t any,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000367">’My only visitor this morning was the poor fellow that you are trying to choke.</span>
   <span id="f000368">Aren’t you well,</span>
   <span id="f000369">or are you ill,</span>
   <span id="f000370">O Tribe of Tegumai?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">’He came with a horrible picture,’ said the Head Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000372">– ’a picture that showed you were full of spears.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">’Er-um-Pr’aps I’d better ’splain that I gave him that picture,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000374">but she did not feel quite comfy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">’You!’ said the Tribe of Tegumai all together.</span>
   <span id="f000376">’Small-person-with-no-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked!</span>
   <span id="f000377">You?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">’Taffy dear,</span>
   <span id="f000379">I’m afraid we’re in for a little trouble,’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and put his arm round her,</span>
   <span id="f000381">so she didn’t care.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">’Explain!</span>
   <span id="f000383">Explain!</span>
   <span id="f000384">Explain!’ said the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and he hopped on one foot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">’I wanted the Stranger-man to fetch Daddy’s spear,</span>
   <span id="f000387">so I drawded it,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000388">’There wasn’t lots of spears.</span>
   <span id="f000389">There was only one spear.</span>
   <span id="f000390">I drawded it three times to make sure.</span>
   <span id="f000391">I couldn’t help it looking as if it stuck into Daddy’s head – there wasn’t room on the birch-bark;</span>
   <span id="f000392">and those things that Mummy called bad people are my beavers.</span>
   <span id="f000393">I drawded them to show him the way through the swamp;</span>
   <span id="f000394">and I drawded Mummy at the mouth of the Cave looking pleased because he is a nice Stranger-man,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and I think you are just the stupidest people in the world,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000396">’He is a very nice man.</span>
   <span id="f000397">Why have you filled his hair with mud?</span>
   <span id="f000398">Wash him!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">Nobody said anything at all for a longtime,</span>
   <span id="f000400">till the Head Chief laughed;</span>
   <span id="f000401">then the Stranger-man</span>
   <span id="f000402">(who was at least a Tewara)</span>
   <span id="f000403">laughed;</span>
   <span id="f000404">then Tegumai laughed till he fell down flat on the bank;</span>
   <span id="f000405">then all the Tribe laughed more and worse and louder.</span>
   <span id="f000406">The only people who did not laugh were Teshumai Tewindrow and all the Neolithic ladies.</span>
   <span id="f000407">They were very polite to all their husbands,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and said ’Idiot!’ ever so often.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">Then the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai cried and said and sang,</span>
   <span id="f000410">’O Small-person-with-out-any-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked,</span>
   <span id="f000411">you’ve hit upon a great invention!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">’I didn’t intend to;</span>
   <span id="f000413">I only wanted Daddy’s black-handled spear,’ said Taffy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">’Never mind.</span>
   <span id="f000415">It is a great invention,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and some day men will call it writing.</span>
   <span id="f000417">At present it is only pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and,</span>
   <span id="f000419">as we have seen to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000420">pictures are not always properly understood.</span>
   <span id="f000421">But a time will come,</span>
   <span id="f000422">O Babe of Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000423">when we shall make letters – all twenty-six of ’em,</span>
   <span id="f000424">– and when we shall be able to read as well as to write,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and then we shall always say exactly what we mean without any mistakes.</span>
   <span id="f000426">Let the Neolithic ladies wash the mud out of the stranger’s hair.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">’I shall be glad of that,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000428">’because,</span>
   <span id="f000429">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000430">though you’ve brought every single other spear in the Tribe of Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000431">you’ve forgotten my Daddy’s black-handled spear.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">Then the Head Chief cried and said and sang,</span>
   <span id="f000433">’Taffy dear,</span>
   <span id="f000434">the next time you write a picture-letter,</span>
   <span id="f000435">you’d better send a man who can talk our language with it,</span>
   <span id="f000436">to explain what it means.</span>
   <span id="f000437">I don’t mind it myself,</span>
   <span id="f000438">because I am a Head Chief,</span>
   <span id="f000439">but it’s very bad for the rest of the Tribe of Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and,</span>
   <span id="f000441">as you can see,</span>
   <span id="f000442">it surprises the stranger.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">Then they adopted the Stranger-man</span>
   <span id="f000444">(a genuine Tewara of Tewar)</span>
   <span id="f000445">into the Tribe of Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000446">because he was a gentleman and did not make a fuss about the mud that the Neolithic ladies had put into his hair.</span>
   <span id="f000447">But from that day to this</span>
   <span id="f000448">(and I suppose it is all Taffy’s fault),</span>
   <span id="f000449">very few little girls have ever liked learning to read or write.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Most of them prefer to draw pictures and play about with their Daddies – just like Taffy.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000451">There runs a road by Merrow Down – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000452">A grassy track to-day it is<br /></span>
   <span id="f000453">An hour out of Guildford town,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000454">Above the river Wey it is.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000456">when they heard the horse-bells ring,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000457">The ancient Britons dressed and rode<br /></span>
   <span id="f000458">To watch the dark Phoenicians bring<br /></span>
   <span id="f000459">Their goods along the Western Road.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000460">And here,</span>
   <span id="f000461">or hereabouts,</span>
   <span id="f000462">they met<br /></span>
   <span id="f000463">To hold their racial talks and such – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000464">To barter beads for Whitby jet,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000465">And tin for gay shell torques and such.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">But long and long before that time<br /></span>
   <span id="f000467">(When bison used to roam on it)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000468">Did Taffy and her Daddy climb<br /></span>
   <span id="f000469">That down,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and had their home on it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">Then beavers built in Broadstone brook<br /></span>
   <span id="f000472">And made a swamp where Bramley stands:<br /></span>
   <span id="f000473">And hears from Shere would come and look<br /></span>
   <span id="f000474">For Taffimai where Shamley stands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">The Wey,</span>
   <span id="f000476">that Taffy called Wagai,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000477">Was more than six times bigger then;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000478">And all the Tribe of Tegumai<br /></span>
   <span id="f000479">They cut a noble figure then!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p008.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track09">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

