<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">How the Alphabet was Made</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">The week after Taffimai Metallumai</span>
   <span id="f000003">(we will still call her Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000004">Best Beloved)</span>
   <span id="f000005">made that little mistake about her Daddy’s spear and the Stranger-man and the picture-letter and all,</span>
   <span id="f000006">she went carp-fishing again with her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Her Mummy wanted her to stay at home and help hang up hides to dry on the big drying-poles outside their Neolithic Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000008">but Taffy slipped away down to her Daddy quite early,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and they fished.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Presently she began to giggle,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and her Daddy said,</span>
   <span id="f000012">’Don’t be silly,</span>
   <span id="f000013">child.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">’But wasn’t it inciting!’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000015">’Don’t you remember how the Head Chief puffed out his cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and how funny the nice Stranger-man looked with the mud in his hair?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">’Well do I,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000018">’I had to pay two deerskins – soft ones with fringes – to the Stranger-man for the things we did to him.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">’We didn’t do anything,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000020">’It was Mummy and the other Neolithic ladies – and the mud.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">’We won’t talk about that,’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000022">’Let’s have lunch.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">Taffy took a marrow-bone and sat mousy-quiet for ten whole minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000024">while her Daddy scratched on pieces of birch-bark with a shark’s tooth.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Then she said,</span>
   <span id="f000026">’Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000027">I’ve thinked of a secret surprise.</span>
   <span id="f000028">You make a noise – any sort of noise.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">’Ah!’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000030">’Will that do to begin with?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">’Yes,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000032">’You look just like a carp-fish with its mouth open.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Say it again,</span>
   <span id="f000034">please.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">’Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000036">ah!</span>
   <span id="f000037">ah!’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000038">’Don’t be rude,</span>
   <span id="f000039">my daughter.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">’I’m not meaning rude,</span>
   <span id="f000041">really and truly,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000042">’It’s part of my secret-surprise-think.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Do say ah,</span>
   <span id="f000044">Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and keep your mouth open at the end,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and lend me that tooth.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I’m going to draw a carp-fish’s mouth wide-open.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">’What for?’ said her Daddy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">’Don’t you see?’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000050">scratching away on the bark.</span>
   <span id="f000051">’That will be our little secret s’prise.</span>
   <span id="f000052">When I draw a carp-fish with his mouth open in the smoke at the back of our Cave – if Mummy doesn’t mind – it will remind you of that ah-noise.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Then we can play that it was me jumped out of the dark and s’prised you with that noise – same as I did in the beaver-swamp last winter.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">’Really?’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000055">in the voice that grown-ups use when they are truly attending.</span>
   <span id="f000056">’Go on,</span>
   <span id="f000057">Taffy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">’Oh bother!’ she said.</span>
   <span id="f000059">’I can’t draw all of a carp-fish,</span>
   <span id="f000060">but I can draw something that means a carp-fish’s mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Don’t you know how they stand on their heads rooting in the mud?</span>
   <span id="f000062">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000063">here’s a pretence carp-fish</span>
   <span id="f000064">(we can play that the rest of him is drawn).</span>
   <span id="f000065">Here’s just his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and that means ah.’ And she drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">’That’s not bad,’ said Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and scratched on his own piece of bark for himself;</span>
   <span id="f000069">but you’ve forgotten the feeler that hangs across his mouth.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">’But I can’t draw,</span>
   <span id="f000071">Daddy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">’You needn’t draw anything of him except just the opening of his mouth and the feeler across.</span>
   <span id="f000073">Then we’ll know he’s a carp-fish,</span>
   <span id="f000074">’cause the perches and trouts haven’t got feelers.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Look here,</span>
   <span id="f000076">Taffy.’ And he drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">’Now I’ll copy it.’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000078">’Will you understand this when you see it?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">’Perfectly,’ said her Daddy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">And she drew this.</span>
   <span id="f000081">’And I’ll be quite as s’prised when I see it anywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000082">as if you had jumped out from behind a tree and said ’“Ah!”’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">’Now,</span>
   <span id="f000084">make another noise,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000085">very proud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">’Yah!’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000087">very loud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">’H’m,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000089">’That’s a mixy noise.</span>
   <span id="f000090">The end part is ah-carp-fish-mouth;</span>
   <span id="f000091">but what can we do about the front part?</span>
   <span id="f000092">Yer-yer-yer and ah!</span>
   <span id="f000093">Ya!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">’It’s very like the carp-fish-mouth noise.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Let’s draw another bit of the carp-fish and join ’em,’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000096">He was quite incited too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">’No.</span>
   <span id="f000098">If they’re joined,</span>
   <span id="f000099">I’ll forget.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Draw it separate.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Draw his tail.</span>
   <span id="f000102">If he’s standing on his head the tail will come first.</span>
   <span id="f000103">’Sides,</span>
   <span id="f000104">I think I can draw tails easiest,’ said Taffy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">’A good notion,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000106">’Here’s a carp-fish tail for the yer-noise.’ And he drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">’I’ll try now,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000108">’’Member I can’t draw like you,</span>
   <span id="f000109">Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000110">Will it do if I just draw the split part of the tail,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and the sticky-down line for where it joins?’ And she drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">Her Daddy nodded,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and his eyes were shiny bright with ’citement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">’That’s beautiful,’ she said.</span>
   <span id="f000115">’Now make another noise,</span>
   <span id="f000116">Daddy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">’Oh!’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000118">very loud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">’That’s quite easy,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000120">’You make your mouth all around like an egg or a stone.</span>
   <span id="f000121">So an egg or a stone will do for that.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">’You can’t always find eggs or stones.</span>
   <span id="f000123">We’ll have to scratch a round something like one.’ And he drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">’My gracious!’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000125">’what a lot of noise-pictures we’ve made,</span>
   <span id="f000126">– carp-mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000127">carp-tail,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and egg!</span>
   <span id="f000129">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000130">make another noise,</span>
   <span id="f000131">Daddy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">’Ssh!’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and frowned to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000134">but Taffy was too incited to notice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">’That’s quite easy,’ she said,</span>
   <span id="f000136">scratching on the bark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">’Eh,</span>
   <span id="f000138">what?’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000139">’I meant I was thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and didn’t want to be disturbed.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">’It’s a noise just the same.</span>
   <span id="f000142">It’s the noise a snake makes,</span>
   <span id="f000143">Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000144">when it is thinking and doesn’t want to be disturbed.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Let’s make the ssh-noise a snake.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Will this do?’ And she drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">’There,’ she said.</span>
   <span id="f000148">’That’s another s’prise-secret.</span>
   <span id="f000149">When you draw a hissy-snake by the door of your little back-cave where you mend the spears,</span>
   <span id="f000150">I’ll know you’re thinking hard;</span>
   <span id="f000151">and I’ll come in most mousy-quiet.</span>
   <span id="f000152">And if you draw it on a tree by the river when you are fishing,</span>
   <span id="f000153">I’ll know you want me to walk most most mousy-quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000154">so as not to shake the banks.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">’Perfectly true,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000156">And there’s more in this game than you think.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000158">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000159">I’ve a notion that your Daddy’s daughter has hit upon the finest thing that there ever was since the Tribe of Tegumai took to using shark’s teeth instead of flints for their spear-heads.</span>
   <span id="f000160">I believe we’ve found out the big secret of the world.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">’Why?’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and her eyes shone too with incitement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">’I’ll show,’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000164">’What’s water in the Tegumai language?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">’Ya,</span>
   <span id="f000166">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and it means river too – like Wagai-ya – the Wagai river.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">’What is bad water that gives you fever if you drink it – black water – swamp-water?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">’Yo,</span>
   <span id="f000170">of course.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">’Now look,’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000172">’S’pose you saw this scratched by the side of a pool in the beaver-swamp?’ And he drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">’Carp-tail and round egg.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Two noises mixed!</span>
   <span id="f000175">Yo,</span>
   <span id="f000176">bad water,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000177">’’Course I wouldn’t drink that water because I’d know you said it was bad.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">’But I needn’t be near the water at all.</span>
   <span id="f000179">I might be miles away,</span>
   <span id="f000180">hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and still – ’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">’And still it would be just the same as if you stood there and said,</span>
   <span id="f000183">“G’way,</span>
   <span id="f000184">Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000185">or you’ll get fever.” All that in a carp-fish-tail and a round egg!</span>
   <span id="f000186">O Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000187">we must tell Mummy,</span>
   <span id="f000188">quick!’ and Taffy danced all round him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">’Not yet,’ said Tegumai;</span>
   <span id="f000190">’not till we’ve gone a little further.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Let’s see.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Yo is bad water,</span>
   <span id="f000193">but So is food cooked on the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000194">isn’t it?’ And he drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">’Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000196">Snake and egg,’ said Taffy ’So that means dinner’s ready.</span>
   <span id="f000197">If you saw that scratched on a tree you’d know it was time to come to the Cave.</span>
   <span id="f000198">So’d I.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">’My Winkie!’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000200">’That’s true too.</span>
   <span id="f000201">But wait a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000202">I see a difficulty.</span>
   <span id="f000203">SO means “come and have dinner,” but sho means the drying-poles where we hang our hides.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">’Horrid old drying-poles!’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000205">’I hate helping to hang heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000206">hot,</span>
   <span id="f000207">hairy hides on them.</span>
   <span id="f000208">If you drew the snake and egg,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and I thought it meant dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and I came in from the wood and found that it meant I was to help Mummy hang the two hides on the drying-poles,</span>
   <span id="f000211">what would I do?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">’You’d be cross.</span>
   <span id="f000213">So’d Mummy.</span>
   <span id="f000214">We must make a new picture for sho.</span>
   <span id="f000215">We must draw a spotty snake that hisses sh-sh,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and we’ll play that the plain snake only hisses ssss.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">’I couldn’t be sure how to put in the spots,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000218">’And p’raps if you were in a hurry you might leave them out,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and I’d think it was so when it was sho,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and then Mummy would catch me just the same.</span>
   <span id="f000221">No!</span>
   <span id="f000222">I think we’d better draw a picture of the horrid high drying-poles their very selves,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and make quite sure.</span>
   <span id="f000224">I’ll put them in just after the hissy-snake.</span>
   <span id="f000225">Look!’ And she drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">’P’raps that’s safest.</span>
   <span id="f000227">It’s very like our drying-poles,</span>
   <span id="f000228">anyhow,’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000229">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000230">’Now I’ll make a new noise with a snake and drying-pole sound in it.</span>
   <span id="f000231">I’ll say shi.</span>
   <span id="f000232">That’s Tegumai for spear,</span>
   <span id="f000233">Taffy.’ And he laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">’Don’t make fun of me,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000235">as she thought of her picture-letter and the mud in the Stranger-man’s hair.</span>
   <span id="f000236">’You draw it,</span>
   <span id="f000237">Daddy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">’We won’t have beavers or hills this time,</span>
   <span id="f000239">eh?’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000240">’I’ll just draw a straight line for my spear.’ and he drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">’Even Mummy couldn’t mistake that for me being killed.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">’Please don’t,</span>
   <span id="f000243">Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000244">It makes me uncomfy.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Do some more noises.</span>
   <span id="f000246">We’re getting on beautifully.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">’Er-hm!’ said Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000248">looking up.</span>
   <span id="f000249">’We’ll say shu.</span>
   <span id="f000250">That means sky.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">Taffy drew the snake and the drying-pole.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Then she stopped.</span>
   <span id="f000253">’We must make a new picture for that end sound,</span>
   <span id="f000254">mustn’t we?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">’Shu-shu-u-u-u!’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000256">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f000257">it’s just like the round-egg-sound made thin.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">’Then s’pose we draw a thin round egg,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and pretend it’s a frog that hasn’t eaten anything for years.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">’N-no,’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000261">’If we drew that in a hurry we might mistake it for the round egg itself.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Shu-shu-shu!</span>
   <span id="f000263">’I tell you what we’ll do.</span>
   <span id="f000264">We’ll open a little hole at the end of the round egg to show how the O-noise runs out all thin,</span>
   <span id="f000265">ooo-oo-oo.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Like this.’ And he drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000268">that’s lovely!</span>
   <span id="f000269">Much better than a thin frog.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Go on,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000271">using her shark’s tooth.</span>
   <span id="f000272">Her Daddy went on drawing,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and his hand shook with incitement.</span>
   <span id="f000274">He went on till he had drawn this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">’Don’t look up,</span>
   <span id="f000276">Taffy,’ he said.</span>
   <span id="f000277">’Try if you can make out what that means in the Tegumai language.</span>
   <span id="f000278">If you can,</span>
   <span id="f000279">we’ve found the Secret.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">’Snake – pole – broken – egg – carp – tail and carp-mouth,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000281">’Shu-ya.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Sky-water</span>
   <span id="f000283">(rain).’ Just then a drop fell on her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000284">for the day had clouded over.</span>
   <span id="f000285">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f000286">Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000287">it’s raining.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Was that what you meant to tell me?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">’Of course,’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000290">’And I told it you without saying a word,</span>
   <span id="f000291">didn’t I?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000293">I think I would have known it in a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000294">but that raindrop made me quite sure.</span>
   <span id="f000295">I’ll always remember now.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Shu-ya means rain,</span>
   <span id="f000297">or “it is going to rain.” Why,</span>
   <span id="f000298">Daddy!’ She got up and danced round him.</span>
   <span id="f000299">’S’pose you went out before I was awake,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and drawed shu-ya in the smoke on the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000301">I’d know it was going to rain and I’d take my beaver-skin hood.</span>
   <span id="f000302">Wouldn’t Mummy be surprised?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">Tegumai got up and danced.</span>
   <span id="f000304">(Daddies didn’t mind doing those things in those days.)</span>
   <span id="f000305">’More than that!</span>
   <span id="f000306">More than that!’ he said.</span>
   <span id="f000307">’S’pose I wanted to tell you it wasn’t going to rain much and you must come down to the river,</span>
   <span id="f000308">what would we draw?</span>
   <span id="f000309">Say the words in Tegumai-talk first.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">’Shu-ya-las,</span>
   <span id="f000311">ya maru.</span>
   <span id="f000312">(Sky-water ending.</span>
   <span id="f000313">River come to.)</span>
   <span id="f000314">what a lot of new sounds!</span>
   <span id="f000315">I don’t see how we can draw them.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">’But I do – but I do!’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000317">’Just attend a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000318">Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and we won’t do any more to-day.</span>
   <span id="f000320">We’ve got shu-ya all right,</span>
   <span id="f000321">haven’t we?</span>
   <span id="f000322">But this las is a teaser.</span>
   <span id="f000323">La-la-la’ and he waved his shark-tooth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">’There’s the hissy-snake at the end and the carp-mouth before the snake – as-as-as.</span>
   <span id="f000325">We only want la-la,’ said Taffy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">’I know it,</span>
   <span id="f000327">but we have to make la-la.</span>
   <span id="f000328">And we’re the first people in all the world who’ve ever tried to do it,</span>
   <span id="f000329">Taffimai!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">’Well,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000331">yawning,</span>
   <span id="f000332">for she was rather tired.</span>
   <span id="f000333">’Las means breaking or finishing as well as ending,</span>
   <span id="f000334">doesn’t it?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">’So it does,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000336">’To-las means that there’s no water in the tank for Mummy to cook with – just when I’m going hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000337">too.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">’And shi-las means that your spear is broken.</span>
   <span id="f000339">If I’d only thought of that instead of drawing silly beaver pictures for the Stranger!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">’La!</span>
   <span id="f000341">La!</span>
   <span id="f000342">La!’ said Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000343">waiving his stick and frowning.</span>
   <span id="f000344">’Oh bother!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">’I could have drawn shi quite easily,’ Taffy went on.</span>
   <span id="f000346">’Then I’d have drawn your spear all broken – this way!’ And she drew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">’The very thing,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000348">’That’s la all over.</span>
   <span id="f000349">It isn’t like any of the other marks either.’ And he drew this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">’Now for ya.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000352">we’ve done that before.</span>
   <span id="f000353">Now for maru.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Mum-mum-mum.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Mum shuts one’s mouth up,</span>
   <span id="f000356">doesn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000357">We’ll draw a shut mouth like this.’ And he drew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">’Then the carp-mouth open.</span>
   <span id="f000359">That makes Ma-ma-ma!</span>
   <span id="f000360">But what about this rrrrr-thing,</span>
   <span id="f000361">Taffy?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">’It sounds all rough and edgy,</span>
   <span id="f000363">like your shark-tooth saw when you’re cutting out a plank for the canoe,’ said Taffy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">’You mean all sharp at the edges,</span>
   <span id="f000365">like this?’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000366">And he drew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">’’Xactly,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000368">’But we don’t want all those teeth:</span>
   <span id="f000369">only put two.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">’I’ll only put in one,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000371">’If this game of ours is going to be what I think it will,</span>
   <span id="f000372">the easier we make our sound-pictures the better for everybody.’ And he drew.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">’Now,</span>
   <span id="f000374">we’ve got it,’ said Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000375">standing on one leg.</span>
   <span id="f000376">’I’ll draw ’em all in a string like fish.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">’Hadn’t we better put a little bit of stick or something between each word,</span>
   <span id="f000378">so’s they won’t rub up against each other and jostle,</span>
   <span id="f000379">same as if they were carps?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000381">I’ll leave a space for that,’ said her Daddy.</span>
   <span id="f000382">And very incitedly he drew them all without stopping,</span>
   <span id="f000383">on a big new bit of birch-bark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">’Shu-ya-las ya-maru,’ said Taffy,</span>
   <span id="f000385">reading it out sound by sound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">’That’s enough for to-day,’ said Tegumai.</span>
   <span id="f000387">’Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000388">you’re getting tired,</span>
   <span id="f000389">Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Never mind,</span>
   <span id="f000391">dear.</span>
   <span id="f000392">We’ll finish it all to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and then we’ll be remembered for years and years after the biggest trees you can see are all chopped up for firewood.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">So they went home,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and all that evening Tegumai sat on one side of the fire and Taffy on the other,</span>
   <span id="f000396">drawing ya’s and yo’s and shu’s and shi’s in the smoke on the wall and giggling together till her Mummy said,</span>
   <span id="f000397">’Really,</span>
   <span id="f000398">Tegumai,</span>
   <span id="f000399">you’re worse than my Taffy.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">’Please don’t mind,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000401">’It’s only our secret-s’prise,</span>
   <span id="f000402">Mummy dear,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and we’ll tell you all about it the very minute it’s done;</span>
   <span id="f000404">but please don’t ask me what it is now,</span>
   <span id="f000405">or else I’ll have to tell.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">So her Mummy most carefully didn’t;</span>
   <span id="f000407">and bright and early next morning Tegumai went down to the river to think about new sound pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and when Taffy got up she saw Ya-las</span>
   <span id="f000409">(water is ending or running out)</span>
   <span id="f000410">chalked on the side of the big stone water-tank,</span>
   <span id="f000411">outside the Cave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">’Um,’ said Taffy.</span>
   <span id="f000413">’These picture-sounds are rather a bother!</span>
   <span id="f000414">Daddy’s just as good as come here himself and told me to get more water for Mummy to cook with.’ She went to the spring at the back of the house and filled the tank from a bark bucket,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and then she ran down to the river and pulled her Daddy’s left ear – the one that belonged to her to pull when she was good.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">’Now come along and we’ll draw all the left-over sound-pictures,’ said her Daddy,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and they had a most inciting day of it,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and a beautiful lunch in the middle,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and two games of romps.</span>
   <span id="f000420">When they came to T,</span>
   <span id="f000421">Taffy said that as her name,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and her Daddy’s,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and her Mummy’s all began with that sound,</span>
   <span id="f000424">they should draw a sort of family group of themselves holding hands.</span>
   <span id="f000425">That was all very well to draw once or twice;</span>
   <span id="f000426">but when it came to drawing it six or seven times,</span>
   <span id="f000427">Taffy and Tegumai drew it scratchier and scratchier,</span>
   <span id="f000428">till at last the T-sound was only a thin long Tegumai with his arms out to hold Taffy and Teshumai.</span>
   <span id="f000429">You can see from these three pictures partly how it happened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">Many of the other pictures were much too beautiful to begin with,</span>
   <span id="f000431">especially before lunch,</span>
   <span id="f000432">but as they were drawn over and over again on birch-bark,</span>
   <span id="f000433">they became plainer and easier,</span>
   <span id="f000434">till at last even Tegumai said he could find no fault with them.</span>
   <span id="f000435">They turned the hissy-snake the other way round for the Z-sound,</span>
   <span id="f000436">to show it was hissing backwards in a soft and gentle way;</span>
   <span id="f000437">and they just made a twiddle for E,</span>
   <span id="f000438">because it came into the pictures so often;</span>
   <span id="f000439">and they drew pictures of the sacred Beaver of the Tegumais for the B-sound;</span>
   <span id="f000440">and because it was a nasty,</span>
   <span id="f000441">nosy noise,</span>
   <span id="f000442">they just drew noses for the N-sound,</span>
   <span id="f000443">till they were tired;</span>
   <span id="f000444">and they drew a picture of the big lake-pike’s mouth for the greedy Ga-sound;</span>
   <span id="f000445">and they drew the pike’s mouth again with a spear behind it for the scratchy,</span>
   <span id="f000446">hurty Ka-sound;</span>
   <span id="f000447">and they drew pictures of a little bit of the winding Wagai river for the nice windy-windy Wa-sound;</span>
   <span id="f000448">and so on and so forth and so following till they had done and drawn all the sound-pictures that they wanted,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and there was the Alphabet,</span>
   <span id="f000450">all complete.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">And after thousands and thousands and thousands of years,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and after Hieroglyphics and Demotics,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and Nilotics,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and Cryptics,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and Cufics,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and Runics,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and Dorics,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and Ionics,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and all sorts of other ricks and tricks</span>
   <span id="f000460">(because the Woons,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and the Neguses,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and the Akhoonds,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and the Repositories of Tradition would never leave a good thing alone when they saw it),</span>
   <span id="f000464">the fine old easy,</span>
   <span id="f000465">understandable Alphabet – A,</span>
   <span id="f000466">B,</span>
   <span id="f000467">C,</span>
   <span id="f000468">D,</span>
   <span id="f000469">E,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and the rest of ’em – got back into its proper shape again for all Best Beloveds to learn when they are old enough.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">But I remember Tegumai Bopsulai,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and Taffimai Metallumai and Teshumai Tewindrow,</span>
   <span id="f000473">her dear Mummy,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and all the days gone by.</span>
   <span id="f000475">And it was so – just so – a little time ago – on the banks of the big Wagai!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">ONE of the first things that Tegumai Bopsulai did after Taffy and he had made the Alphabet was to make a magic Alphabet-necklace of all the letters,</span>
   <span id="f000477">so that it could be put in the Temple of Tegumai and kept for ever and ever.</span>
   <span id="f000478">All the Tribe of Tegumai brought their most precious beads and beautiful things,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and Taffy and Tegumai spent five whole years getting the necklace in order.</span>
   <span id="f000480">This is a picture of the magic Alphabet-necklace.</span>
   <span id="f000481">The string was made of the finest and strongest reindeer-sinew,</span>
   <span id="f000482">bound round with thin copper wire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">Beginning at the top,</span>
   <span id="f000484">the first bead is an old silver one that belonged to the Head Priest of the Tribe of Tegumai;</span>
   <span id="f000485">then came three black mussel-pearls;</span>
   <span id="f000486">next is a clay bead</span>
   <span id="f000487">(blue and gray);</span>
   <span id="f000488">next a nubbly gold bead sent as a present by a tribe who got it from Africa</span>
   <span id="f000489">(but it must have been Indian really);</span>
   <span id="f000490">the next is a long flat-sided glass bead from Africa</span>
   <span id="f000491">(the Tribe of Tegumai took it in a fight);</span>
   <span id="f000492">then come two clay beads</span>
   <span id="f000493">(white and green),</span>
   <span id="f000494">with dots on one,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and dots and bands on the other;</span>
   <span id="f000496">next are three rather chipped amber beads;</span>
   <span id="f000497">then three clay beads</span>
   <span id="f000498">(red and white),</span>
   <span id="f000499">two with dots,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and the big one in the middle with a toothed pattern.</span>
   <span id="f000501">Then the letters begin,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and between each letter is a little whitish clay bead with the letter repeated small.</span>
   <span id="f000503">Here are the letters –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000504">A is scratched an a tooth – an elk-tusk I think.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">B is the Sacred Beaver of Tegumai on a bit of old glory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">C is a pearly oyster-shell – inside front.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">D must be a sort of mussel shell – outside front.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000508">E is a twist of silver wire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">F is broken,</span>
   <span id="f000510">but what remains of it is a bit of stag’s horn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">G is painted black on a piece of wood.</span>
   <span id="f000512">(The bead after G is a small shell,</span>
   <span id="f000513">and not a clay bead.</span>
   <span id="f000514">I don’t know why they did that.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">H is a kind of a big brown cowie-shell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">I is the inside part of a long shell ground down by hand.</span>
   <span id="f000517">(It took Tegumai three months to grind it down.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">J is a fish hook in mother-of-pearl.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">L is the broken spear in silver.</span>
   <span id="f000520">(K aught to follow J of course,</span>
   <span id="f000521">but the necklace was broken once and they mended it wrong.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">K is a thin slice of bone scratched and rubbed in black.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">M is on a pale gray shell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">N is a piece of what is called porphyry with a nose scratched on it.</span>
   <span id="f000525">(Tegumai spent five months polishing this stone.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">O is a piece of oyster-shell with a hole in the middle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">P and Q are missing.</span>
   <span id="f000528">They were lost,</span>
   <span id="f000529">a long time ago,</span>
   <span id="f000530">in a great war,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and the tribe mended the necklace with the dried rattles of a rattlesnake,</span>
   <span id="f000532">but no one ever found P and Q.</span>
   <span id="f000533">That is how the saying began,</span>
   <span id="f000534">’You must mind your P’s.</span>
   <span id="f000535">and Q’s.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">R is,</span>
   <span id="f000537">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000538">just a shark’s tooth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">S is a little silver snake.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">T is the end of a small bone,</span>
   <span id="f000541">polished brown and shiny.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">U is another piece of oyster-shell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">W is a twisty piece of mother-of-pearl that they found inside a big mother-of-pearl shell,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and sawed off with a wire dipped in sand and water.</span>
   <span id="f000545">It took Taffy a month and a half to polish it and drill the holes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">X is silver wire joined in the middle with a raw garnet.</span>
   <span id="f000547">(Taffy found the garnet.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">Y is the carp’s tail in ivory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">Z is a bell-shaped piece of agate marked with Z-shaped stripes.</span>
   <span id="f000550">They made the Z-snake out of one of the stripes by picking out the soft stone and rubbing in red sand and bee’s-wax.</span>
   <span id="f000551">Just in the mouth of the bell you see the clay bead repeating the Z-letter.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000552">These are all the letters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">The next bead is a small round greeny lump of copper ore;</span>
   <span id="f000554">the next is a lump of rough turquoise;</span>
   <span id="f000555">the next is a rough gold nuggct</span>
   <span id="f000556">(what they call water-gold);</span>
   <span id="f000557">the next is a melon-shaped clay bead</span>
   <span id="f000558">(white with green spots).</span>
   <span id="f000559">Then come four flat ivory pieces,</span>
   <span id="f000560">with dots on them rather like dominoes;</span>
   <span id="f000561">then come three stone beads,</span>
   <span id="f000562">very badly worn;</span>
   <span id="f000563">then two soft iron beads with rust-holes at the edges</span>
   <span id="f000564">(they must have been magic,</span>
   <span id="f000565">because they look very common);</span>
   <span id="f000566">and last is a very very old African bead,</span>
   <span id="f000567">like glass – blue,</span>
   <span id="f000568">red,</span>
   <span id="f000569">white,</span>
   <span id="f000570">black,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and yellow.</span>
   <span id="f000572">Then comes the loop to slip over the big silver button at the other end,</span>
   <span id="f000573">and that is all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">I have copied the necklace very carefully.</span>
   <span id="f000575">It weighs one pound seven and a half ounces.</span>
   <span id="f000576">The black squiggle behind is only put in to make the beads and things look better.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000577">Of all the Tribe of Tegumai<br /></span>
   <span id="f000578">Who cut that figure,</span>
   <span id="f000579">none remain,</span>
   <span id="f000580">– <br /></span>
   <span id="f000581">On Merrow Down the cuckoos cry<br /></span>
   <span id="f000582">The silence and the sun remain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">But as the faithful years return<br /></span>
   <span id="f000584">And hearts unwounded sing again,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000585">Comes Taffy dancing through the fern<br /></span>
   <span id="f000586">To lead the Surrey spring again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">Her brows are bound with bracken-fronds,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000588">And golden elf-locks fly above;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000589">Her eyes are bright as diamonds<br /></span>
   <span id="f000590">And bluer than the skies above.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">In mocassins and deer-skin cloak,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000592">Unfearing,</span>
   <span id="f000593">free and fair she flits,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000594">And lights her little damp-wood smoke<br /></span>
   <span id="f000595">To show her Daddy where she flits.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000596">For far – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000597">very far behind,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000598">So far she cannot call to him,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000599">Comes Tegumai alone to find<br /></span>
   <span id="f000600">The daughter that was all to him.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p009.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track10">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

