<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Crab that Played with the Sea</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Before the High and Far-Off Times,</span>
   <span id="f000003">O my Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000004">came the Time of the Very Beginnings;</span>
   <span id="f000005">and that was in the days when the Eldest Magician was getting Things ready.</span>
   <span id="f000006">First he got the Earth ready;</span>
   <span id="f000007">then he got the Sea ready;</span>
   <span id="f000008">and then he told all the Animals that they could come out and play.</span>
   <span id="f000009">And the Animals said,</span>
   <span id="f000010">’O Eldest Magician,</span>
   <span id="f000011">what shall we play at?’ and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000012">’I will show you.</span>
   <span id="f000013">He took the Elephant – All-the-Elephant-there-was – and said,</span>
   <span id="f000014">’Play at being an Elephant,’ and All-the-Elephant-there-was played.</span>
   <span id="f000015">He took the Beaver – All-the-Beaver-there-was and said,</span>
   <span id="f000016">’Play at being a Beaver,’ and All-the Beaver-there-was played.</span>
   <span id="f000017">He took the Cow – All-the Cow-there-was – and said,</span>
   <span id="f000018">’Play at being a Cow,’ and All-the-Cow-there-was played.</span>
   <span id="f000019">He took the Turtle – All-the-Turtle there-was and said,</span>
   <span id="f000020">’Play at being a Turtle,’ and All-the-Turtle-there-was played.</span>
   <span id="f000021">One by one he took all the beasts and birds and fishes and told them what to play at.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">But towards evening,</span>
   <span id="f000023">when people and things grow restless and tired,</span>
   <span id="f000024">there came up the Man</span>
   <span id="f000025">(With his own little girl-daughter?)</span>
   <span id="f000026">– Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000027">with his own best beloved little girl-daughter sitting upon his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000029">’What is this play,</span>
   <span id="f000030">Eldest Magician?’ And the Eldest Magician said,</span>
   <span id="f000031">’Ho,</span>
   <span id="f000032">Son of Adam,</span>
   <span id="f000033">this is the play of the Very Beginning;</span>
   <span id="f000034">but you are too wise for this play.’ And the Man saluted and said,</span>
   <span id="f000035">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000036">I am too wise for this play;</span>
   <span id="f000037">but see that you make all the Animals obedient to me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000039">while the two were talking together,</span>
   <span id="f000040">Pau Amma the Crab,</span>
   <span id="f000041">who was next in the game,</span>
   <span id="f000042">scuttled off sideways and stepped into the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000043">saying to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000044">’I will play my play alone in the deep waters,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and I will never be obedient to this son of Adam.’ Nobody saw him go away except the little girl-daughter where she leaned on the Man’s shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000046">And the play went on till there were no more Animals left without orders;</span>
   <span id="f000047">and the Eldest Magician wiped the fine dust off his hands and walked about the world to see how the Animals were playing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">He went North,</span>
   <span id="f000049">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and he found All-the-Elephant-there-was digging with his tusks and stamping with his feet in the nice new clean earth that had been made ready for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">’Kun?’ said All-the-Elephant-there-was,</span>
   <span id="f000052">meaning,</span>
   <span id="f000053">’Is this right?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">’Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician,</span>
   <span id="f000055">meaning,</span>
   <span id="f000056">’That is quite right’;</span>
   <span id="f000057">and he breathed upon the great rocks and lumps of earth that All-the-Elephant-there-was had thrown up,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and they became the great Himalayan Mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and you can look them out on the map.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">He went East,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and he found All-the-Cow there-was feeding in the field that had been made ready for her,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and she licked her tongue round a whole forest at a time,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and swallowed it and sat down to chew her cud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">’Kun?’ said All-the-Cow-there-was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">’Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician;</span>
   <span id="f000066">and he breathed upon the bare patch where she had eaten,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and upon the place where she had sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and one became the great Indian Desert,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and the other became the Desert of Sahara,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and you can look them out on the map.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">He went West,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and he found All-the-Beaver-there-was making a beaver-dam across the mouths of broad rivers that had been got ready for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">’Kun?’ said All-the-Beaver-there-was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">’Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician;</span>
   <span id="f000075">and he breathed upon the fallen trees and the still water,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and they became the Everglades in Florida,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and you may look them out on the map.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">Then he went South and found All-the-Turtle-there-was scratching with his flippers in the sand that had been got ready for him,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and the sand and the rocks whirled through the air and fell far off into the sea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">’Kun?’ said All-the-Turtle-there-was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">’Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician;</span>
   <span id="f000082">and he breathed upon the sand and the rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000083">where they had fallen in the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and they became the most beautiful islands of Borneo,</span>
   <span id="f000085">Celebes,</span>
   <span id="f000086">Sumatra,</span>
   <span id="f000087">Java,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and the rest of the Malay Archipelago,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and you can look them out on the map!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">By and by the Eldest Magician met the Man on the banks of the Perak river,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000092">’Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000093">Son of Adam,</span>
   <span id="f000094">are all the Animals obedient to you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">’Yes,’ said the Man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">’Is all the Earth obedient to you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">’Yes,’ said the Man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">’Is all the Sea obedient to you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">’No,’ said the Man.</span>
   <span id="f000100">’Once a day and once a night the Sea runs up the Perak river and drives the sweet-water back into the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000101">so that my house is made wet;</span>
   <span id="f000102">once a day and once a night it runs down the river and draws all the water after it,</span>
   <span id="f000103">so that there is nothing left but mud,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and my canoe is upset.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Is that the play you told it to play?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">’No,’ said the Eldest Magician.</span>
   <span id="f000107">’That is a new and a bad play.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">’Look!’ said the Man,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and as he spoke the great Sea came up the mouth of the Perak river,</span>
   <span id="f000110">driving the river backwards till it overflowed all the dark forests for miles and miles,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and flooded the Man’s house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">’This is wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Launch your canoe and we will find out who is playing with the Sea,’ said the Eldest Magician.</span>
   <span id="f000114">They stepped into the canoe;</span>
   <span id="f000115">the little girl-daughter came with them;</span>
   <span id="f000116">and the Man took his kris – a curving,</span>
   <span id="f000117">wavy dagger with a blade like a flame,</span>
   <span id="f000118">– and they pushed out on the Perak river.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Then the sea began to run back and back,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and the canoe was sucked out of the mouth of the Perak river,</span>
   <span id="f000121">past Selangor,</span>
   <span id="f000122">past Malacca,</span>
   <span id="f000123">past Singapore,</span>
   <span id="f000124">out and out to the Island of Bingtang,</span>
   <span id="f000125">as though it had been pulled by a string.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">Then the Eldest Magician stood up and shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000127">’Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000128">beasts,</span>
   <span id="f000129">birds,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and fishes,</span>
   <span id="f000131">that I took between my hands at the Very Beginning and taught the play that you should play,</span>
   <span id="f000132">which one of you is playing with the Sea?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">Then all the beasts,</span>
   <span id="f000134">birds,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and fishes said together,</span>
   <span id="f000136">’Eldest Magician,</span>
   <span id="f000137">we play the plays that you taught us to play – we and our children’s children.</span>
   <span id="f000138">But not one of us plays with the Sea.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">Then the Moon rose big and full over the water,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and the Eldest Magician said to the hunchbacked old man who sits in the Moon spinning a fishing-line with which he hopes one day to catch the world,</span>
   <span id="f000141">’Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000142">Fisher of the Moon,</span>
   <span id="f000143">are you playing with the Sea?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">’No,’ said the Fisherman,</span>
   <span id="f000145">’I am spinning a line with which I shall some day catch the world;</span>
   <span id="f000146">but I do not play with the Sea.’ And he went on spinning his line.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">Now there is also a Rat up in the Moon who always bites the old Fisherman’s line as fast as it is made,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and the Eldest Magician said to him,</span>
   <span id="f000149">’Ho!</span>
   <span id="f000150">Rat of the Moon,</span>
   <span id="f000151">are you playing with the Sea?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">And the Rat said,</span>
   <span id="f000153">’I am too busy biting through the line that this old Fisherman is spinning.</span>
   <span id="f000154">I do not play with the Sea.’ And he went on biting the line.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">Then the little girl-daughter put up her little soft brown arms with the beautiful white shell bracelets and said,</span>
   <span id="f000156">’O Eldest Magician!</span>
   <span id="f000157">when my father here talked to you at the Very Beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and I leaned upon his shoulder while the beasts were being taught their plays,</span>
   <span id="f000159">one beast went away naughtily into the Sea before you had taught him his play.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">And the Eldest Magician said,</span>
   <span id="f000161">’How wise are little children who see and are silent!</span>
   <span id="f000162">What was the beast like?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">And the little girl-daughter said,</span>
   <span id="f000164">’He was round and he was flat;</span>
   <span id="f000165">and his eyes grew upon stalks;</span>
   <span id="f000166">and he walked sideways like this;</span>
   <span id="f000167">and he was covered with strong armour upon his back.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">And the Eldest Magician said,</span>
   <span id="f000169">’How wise are little children who speak truth!</span>
   <span id="f000170">Now I know where Pau Amma went.</span>
   <span id="f000171">Give me the paddle!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">So he took the paddle;</span>
   <span id="f000173">but there was no need to paddle,</span>
   <span id="f000174">for the water flowed steadily past all the islands till they came to the place called Pusat Tasek – the Heart of the Sea – where the great hollow is that leads down to the heart of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and in that hollow grows the Wonderful Tree,</span>
   <span id="f000176">Pauh Janggi,</span>
   <span id="f000177">that bears the magic twin nuts.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Then the Eldest Magician slid his arm up to the shoulder through the deep warm water,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and under the roots of the Wonderful Tree he touched the broad back of Pau Amma the Crab.</span>
   <span id="f000180">And Pau Amma settled down at the touch,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and all the Sea rose up as water rises in a basin when you put your hand into it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">’Ah!’ said the Eldest Magician.</span>
   <span id="f000183">’Now I know who has been playing with the Sea;’ and he called out,</span>
   <span id="f000184">’What are you doing,</span>
   <span id="f000185">Pau Amma?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">And Pau Amma,</span>
   <span id="f000187">deep down below,</span>
   <span id="f000188">answered,</span>
   <span id="f000189">’Once a day and once a night I go out to look for my food.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Once a day and once a night I return.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Leave me alone.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">Then the Eldest Magician said,</span>
   <span id="f000193">’Listen,</span>
   <span id="f000194">Pau Amma.</span>
   <span id="f000195">When you go out from your cave the waters of the Sea pour down into Pusat Tasek,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and all the beaches of all the islands are left bare,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and the little fish die,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and Raja Moyang Kaban,</span>
   <span id="f000199">the King of the Elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000200">his legs are made muddy.</span>
   <span id="f000201">When you come back and sit in Pusat Tasek,</span>
   <span id="f000202">the waters of the Sea rise,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and half the little islands are drowned,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and the Man’s house is flooded,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and Raja Abdullah,</span>
   <span id="f000206">the King of the Crocodiles,</span>
   <span id="f000207">his mouth is filled with the salt water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">Then Pau Amma,</span>
   <span id="f000209">deep down below,</span>
   <span id="f000210">laughed and said,</span>
   <span id="f000211">’I did not know I was so important.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Henceforward I will go out seven times a day,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and the waters shall never be still.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">And the Eldest Magician said,</span>
   <span id="f000215">’I cannot make you play the play you were meant to play,</span>
   <span id="f000216">Pau Amma,</span>
   <span id="f000217">because you escaped me at the Very Beginning;</span>
   <span id="f000218">but if you are not afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000219">come up and we will talk about it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">’I am not afraid,’ said Pau Amma,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and he rose to the top of the sea in the moonlight.</span>
   <span id="f000222">There was nobody in the world so big as Pau Amma – for he was the King Crab of all Crabs.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Not a common Crab,</span>
   <span id="f000224">but a King Crab.</span>
   <span id="f000225">One side of his great shell touched the beach at Sarawak;</span>
   <span id="f000226">the other touched the beach at Pahang;</span>
   <span id="f000227">and he was taller than the smoke of three volcanoes!</span>
   <span id="f000228">As he rose up through the branches of the Wonderful Tree he tore off one of the great twin fruits – the magic double kernelled nuts that make people young,</span>
   <span id="f000229">– and the little girl-daughter saw it bobbing alongside the canoe,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and pulled it in and began to pick out the soft eyes of it with her little golden scissors.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">’Now,’ said the Magician,</span>
   <span id="f000232">’make a Magic,</span>
   <span id="f000233">Pau Amma,</span>
   <span id="f000234">to show that you are really important.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">Pau Amma rolled his eyes and waved his legs,</span>
   <span id="f000236">but he could only stir up the Sea,</span>
   <span id="f000237">because,</span>
   <span id="f000238">though he was a King Crab,</span>
   <span id="f000239">he was nothing more than a Crab,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and the Eldest Magician laughed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">’You are not so important after all,</span>
   <span id="f000242">Pau Amma,’ he said.</span>
   <span id="f000243">’Now,</span>
   <span id="f000244">let me try,’ and he made a Magic with his left hand – with just the little finger of his left hand – and – lo and behold,</span>
   <span id="f000245">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000246">Pau Amma’s hard,</span>
   <span id="f000247">blue-green-black shell fell off him as a husk falls off a cocoa-nut,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and Pau Amma was left all soft – soft as the little crabs that you sometimes find on the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000249">Best Beloved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">’Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000251">you are very important,’ said the Eldest Magician.</span>
   <span id="f000252">’Shall I ask the Man here to cut you with kris?</span>
   <span id="f000253">Shall I send for Raja Moyang Kaban,</span>
   <span id="f000254">the King of the Elephants,</span>
   <span id="f000255">to pierce you with his tusks,</span>
   <span id="f000256">or shall I call Raja Abdullah,</span>
   <span id="f000257">the King of the Crocodiles,</span>
   <span id="f000258">to bite you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">And Pau Amma said,</span>
   <span id="f000260">’I am ashamed!</span>
   <span id="f000261">Give me back my hard shell and let me go back to Pusat Tasek,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and I will only stir out once a day and once a night to get my food.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">And the Eldest Magician said,</span>
   <span id="f000264">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000265">Pau Amma,</span>
   <span id="f000266">I will not give you back your shell,</span>
   <span id="f000267">for you will grow bigger and prouder and stronger,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and perhaps you will forget your promise,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and you will play with the Sea once more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">Then Pau Amma said,</span>
   <span id="f000271">’What shall I do?</span>
   <span id="f000272">I am so big that I can only hide in Pusat Tasek,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and if I go anywhere else,</span>
   <span id="f000274">all soft as I am now,</span>
   <span id="f000275">the sharks and the dogfish will eat me.</span>
   <span id="f000276">And if I go to Pusat Tasek,</span>
   <span id="f000277">all soft as I am now,</span>
   <span id="f000278">though I may be safe,</span>
   <span id="f000279">I can never stir out to get my food,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and so I shall die.’ Then he waved his legs and lamented.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">’Listen,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Pau Amma,’ said the Eldest Magician.</span>
   <span id="f000283">’I cannot make you play the play you were meant to play,</span>
   <span id="f000284">because you escaped me at the Very Beginning;</span>
   <span id="f000285">but if you choose,</span>
   <span id="f000286">I can make every stone and every hole and every bunch of weed in all the seas a safe Pusat Tasek for you and your children for always.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">Then Pau Amma said,</span>
   <span id="f000288">’That is good,</span>
   <span id="f000289">but I do not choose yet.</span>
   <span id="f000290">Look!</span>
   <span id="f000291">there is that Man who talked to you at the Very Beginning.</span>
   <span id="f000292">If he had not taken up your attention I should not have grown tired of waiting and run away,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and all this would never have happened.</span>
   <span id="f000294">What will he do for me?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">And the Man said,</span>
   <span id="f000296">’If you choose,</span>
   <span id="f000297">I will make a Magic,</span>
   <span id="f000298">so that both the deep water and the dry ground will be a home for you and your children – so that you shall be able to hide both on the land and in the sea.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">And Pau Amma said,</span>
   <span id="f000300">’I do not choose yet.</span>
   <span id="f000301">Look!</span>
   <span id="f000302">there is that girl who saw me running away at the Very Beginning.</span>
   <span id="f000303">If she had spoken then,</span>
   <span id="f000304">the Eldest Magician would have called me back,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and all this would never have happened.</span>
   <span id="f000306">What will she do for me?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">And the little girl-daughter said,</span>
   <span id="f000308">’This is a good nut that I am eating.</span>
   <span id="f000309">If you choose,</span>
   <span id="f000310">I will make a Magic and I will give you this pair of scissors,</span>
   <span id="f000311">very sharp and strong,</span>
   <span id="f000312">so that you and your children can eat cocoa-nuts like this all day long when you come up from the Sea to the land;</span>
   <span id="f000313">or you can dig a Pusat Tasek for yourself with the scissors that belong to you when there is no stone or hole near by;</span>
   <span id="f000314">and when the earth is too hard,</span>
   <span id="f000315">by the help of these same scissors you can run up a tree.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">And Pau Amma said,</span>
   <span id="f000317">’I do not choose yet,</span>
   <span id="f000318">for,</span>
   <span id="f000319">all soft as I am,</span>
   <span id="f000320">these gifts would not help me.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Give me back my shell,</span>
   <span id="f000322">O Eldest Magician,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and then I will play your play.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">And the Eldest Magician said,</span>
   <span id="f000325">’I will give it back,</span>
   <span id="f000326">Pau Amma,</span>
   <span id="f000327">for eleven months of the year;</span>
   <span id="f000328">but on the twelfth month of every year it shall grow soft again,</span>
   <span id="f000329">to remind you and all your children that I can make magics,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and to keep you humble,</span>
   <span id="f000331">Pau Amma;</span>
   <span id="f000332">for I see that if you can run both under the water and on land,</span>
   <span id="f000333">you will grow too bold;</span>
   <span id="f000334">and if you can climb trees and crack nuts and dig holes with your scissors,</span>
   <span id="f000335">you will grow too greedy,</span>
   <span id="f000336">Pau Amma.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">Then Pau Amma thought a little and said,</span>
   <span id="f000338">’I have made my choice.</span>
   <span id="f000339">I will take all the gifts.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">Then the Eldest Magician made a Magic with the right hand,</span>
   <span id="f000341">with all five fingers of his right hand,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and lo and behold,</span>
   <span id="f000343">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000344">Pau Amma grew smaller and smaller and smaller,</span>
   <span id="f000345">till at last there was only a little green crab swimming in the water alongside the canoe,</span>
   <span id="f000346">crying in a very small voice,</span>
   <span id="f000347">’Give me the scissors!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">And the girl-daughter picked him up on the palm of her little brown hand,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and sat him in the bottom of the canoe and gave him her scissors,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and he waved them in his little arms,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and opened them and shut them and snapped them,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000353">’I can eat nuts.</span>
   <span id="f000354">I can crack shells.</span>
   <span id="f000355">I can dig holes.</span>
   <span id="f000356">I can climb trees.</span>
   <span id="f000357">I can breathe in the dry air,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and I can find a safe Pusat Tasek under every stone.</span>
   <span id="f000359">I did not know I was so important.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Kun?’</span>
   <span id="f000361">(Is this right?)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">’Payah-kun,’ said the Eldest Magician,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and he laughed and gave him his blessing;</span>
   <span id="f000364">and little Pau Amma scuttled over the side of the canoe into the water;</span>
   <span id="f000365">and he was so tiny that he could have hidden under the shadow of a dry leaf on land or of a dead shell at the bottom of the sea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">’Was that well done?’ said the Eldest Magician.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">’Yes,’ said the Man.</span>
   <span id="f000368">’But now we must go back to Perak,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and that is a weary way to paddle.</span>
   <span id="f000370">If we had waited till Pau Amma had gone out of Pusat Tasek and come home,</span>
   <span id="f000371">the water would have carried us there by itself.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">’You are lazy,’ said the Eldest Magician.</span>
   <span id="f000373">’So your children shall be lazy.</span>
   <span id="f000374">They shall be the laziest people in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000375">They shall be called the Malazy – the lazy people;’ and he held up his finger to the Moon and said,</span>
   <span id="f000376">’O Fisherman,</span>
   <span id="f000377">here is the Man too lazy to row home.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Pull his canoe home with your line,</span>
   <span id="f000379">Fisherman.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">’No,’ said the Man.</span>
   <span id="f000381">’If I am to be lazy all my days,</span>
   <span id="f000382">let the Sea work for me twice a day for ever.</span>
   <span id="f000383">That will save paddling.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">And the Eldest Magician laughed and said,</span>
   <span id="f000385">’Payah kun’</span>
   <span id="f000386">(That is right).</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">And the Rat of the Moon stopped biting the line;</span>
   <span id="f000388">and the Fisherman let his line down till it touched the Sea,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and he pulled the whole deep Sea along,</span>
   <span id="f000390">past the Island of Bintang,</span>
   <span id="f000391">past Singapore,</span>
   <span id="f000392">past Malacca,</span>
   <span id="f000393">past Selangor,</span>
   <span id="f000394">till the canoe whirled into the mouth of the Perak River again.</span>
   <span id="f000395">Kun?’ said the Fisherman of the Moon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">’Payah kun,’ said the Eldest Magician.</span>
   <span id="f000397">’See now that you pull the Sea twice a day and twice a night for ever,</span>
   <span id="f000398">so that the Malazy fishermen may be saved paddling.</span>
   <span id="f000399">But be careful not to do it too hard,</span>
   <span id="f000400">or I shall make a magic on you as I did to Pau Amma.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">Then they all went up the Perak River and went to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000402">Best Beloved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">Now listen and attend!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">From that day to this the Moon has always pulled the sea up and down and made what we call the tides.</span>
   <span id="f000405">Sometimes the Fisher of the Sea pulls a little too hard,</span>
   <span id="f000406">and then we get spring tides;</span>
   <span id="f000407">and sometimes he pulls a little too softly,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and then we get what are called neap-tides;</span>
   <span id="f000409">but nearly always he is careful,</span>
   <span id="f000410">because of the Eldest Magician.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">And Pau Amma?</span>
   <span id="f000412">You can see when you go to the beach,</span>
   <span id="f000413">how all Pau Amma’s babies make little Pusat Taseks for themselves under every stone and bunch of weed on the sands;</span>
   <span id="f000414">you can see them waving their little scissors;</span>
   <span id="f000415">and in some parts of the world they truly live on the dry land and run up the palm trees and eat cocoa-nuts,</span>
   <span id="f000416">exactly as the girl-daughter promised.</span>
   <span id="f000417">But once a year all Pau Ammas must shake off their hard armour and be soft-to remind them of what the Eldest Magician could do.</span>
   <span id="f000418">And so it isn’t fair to kill or hunt Pau Amma’s babies just because old Pau Amma was stupidly rude a very long time ago.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">Oh yes!</span>
   <span id="f000420">And Pau Amma’s babies hate being taken out of their little Pusat Taseks and brought home in pickle-bottles.</span>
   <span id="f000421">That is why they nip you with their scissors,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and it serves you right!</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000423">China-going P’s and O’s<br /></span>
   <span id="f000424">Pass Pau Amma’s playground close,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000425">And his Pusat Tasek lies<br /></span>
   <span id="f000426">Near the track of most B.I.’s.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000427">U.Y.K.</span>
   <span id="f000428">and N.D.L.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000429">Know Pau Amma’s home as well<br /></span>
   <span id="f000430">As the fisher of the Sea knows<br /></span>
   <span id="f000431">’Bens,’ M.M.’s,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and Rubattinos.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000433">But</span>
   <span id="f000434">(and this is rather queer)<br /></span>
   <span id="f000435">A.T.L.’s can not come here;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000436">O.</span>
   <span id="f000437">and O.</span>
   <span id="f000438">and D.O.A.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000439">Must go round another way.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000440">Orient,</span>
   <span id="f000441">Anchor,</span>
   <span id="f000442">Bibby,</span>
   <span id="f000443">Hall,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000444">Never go that way at all.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000445">U.C.S.</span>
   <span id="f000446">would have a fit<br /></span>
   <span id="f000447">If it found itself on it.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000448">And if ’Beavers’ took their cargoes<br /></span>
   <span id="f000449">To Penang instead of Lagos,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000450">Or a fat Shaw-Savill bore<br /></span>
   <span id="f000451">Passengers to Singapore,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000452">Or a White Star were to try a<br /></span>
   <span id="f000453">Little trip to Sourabaya,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000454">Or a B.S.A.</span>
   <span id="f000455">went on<br /></span>
   <span id="f000456">Past Natal to Cheribon,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000457">Then great Mr.&#160;Lloyds would come<br /></span>
   <span id="f000458">With a wire and drag them home!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">You’ll know what my riddle means<br /></span>
   <span id="f000460">When you’ve eaten mangosteens.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000461">Or if you can’t wait till then,</span>
   <span id="f000462">ask them to let you have the outside page of the Times;</span>
   <span id="f000463">turn over to page 2 where it is marked ’Shipping’ on the top left hand;</span>
   <span id="f000464">then take the Atlas</span>
   <span id="f000465">(and that is the finest picture-book in the world)</span>
   <span id="f000466">and see how the names of the places that the steamers go to fit into the names of the places on the map.</span>
   <span id="f000467">Any steamer-kiddy ought to be able to do that;</span>
   <span id="f000468">but if you can’t read,</span>
   <span id="f000469">ask some one to show it you.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p010.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track11">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

