<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Cat who Walked by Himself</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">Hear and attend and listen;</span>
   <span id="f000003">for this befell and behappened and became and was,</span>
   <span id="f000004">O my Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000005">when the Tame animals were wild.</span>
   <span id="f000006">The Dog was wild,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and the Horse was wild,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and the Cow was wild,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and the Sheep was wild,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and the Pig was wild – as wild as wild could be – and they walked in the Wet Wild Woods by their wild lones.</span>
   <span id="f000011">But the wildest of all the wild animals was the Cat.</span>
   <span id="f000012">He walked by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and all places were alike to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Of course the Man was wild too.</span>
   <span id="f000015">He was dreadfully wild.</span>
   <span id="f000016">He didn’t even begin to be tame till he met the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and she told him that she did not like living in his wild ways.</span>
   <span id="f000018">She picked out a nice dry Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000019">instead of a heap of wet leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000020">to lie down in;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and she strewed clean sand on the floor;</span>
   <span id="f000022">and she lit a nice fire of wood at the back of the Cave;</span>
   <span id="f000023">and she hung a dried wild-horse skin,</span>
   <span id="f000024">tail-down,</span>
   <span id="f000025">across the opening of the Cave;</span>
   <span id="f000026">and she said,</span>
   <span id="f000027">’Wipe you feet,</span>
   <span id="f000028">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000029">when you come in,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and now we’ll keep house.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">That night,</span>
   <span id="f000032">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000033">they ate wild sheep roasted on the hot stones,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and flavoured with wild garlic and wild pepper;</span>
   <span id="f000035">and wild duck stuffed with wild rice and wild fenugreek and wild coriander;</span>
   <span id="f000036">and marrow-bones of wild oxen;</span>
   <span id="f000037">and wild cherries,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and wild grenadillas.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Then the Man went to sleep in front of the fire ever so happy;</span>
   <span id="f000040">but the Woman sat up,</span>
   <span id="f000041">combing her hair.</span>
   <span id="f000042">She took the bone of the shoulder of mutton – the big fat blade-bone – and she looked at the wonderful marks on it,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and she threw more wood on the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and she made a Magic.</span>
   <span id="f000045">She made the First Singing Magic in the world.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">Out in the Wet Wild Woods all the wild animals gathered together where they could see the light of the fire a long way off,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and they wondered what it meant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">Then Wild Horse stamped with his wild foot and said,</span>
   <span id="f000049">’O my Friends and O my Enemies,</span>
   <span id="f000050">why have the Man and the Woman made that great light in that great Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and what harm will it do us?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">Wild Dog lifted up his wild nose and smelled the smell of roast mutton,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000054">’I will go up and see and look,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and say;</span>
   <span id="f000056">for I think it is good.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000058">come with me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">’Nenni!’ said the Cat.</span>
   <span id="f000060">’I am the Cat who walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and all places are alike to me.</span>
   <span id="f000062">I will not come.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">’Then we can never be friends again,’ said Wild Dog,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and he trotted off to the Cave.</span>
   <span id="f000065">But when he had gone a little way the Cat said to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000066">’All places are alike to me.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Why should I not go too and see and look and come away at my own liking.’ So he slipped after Wild Dog softly,</span>
   <span id="f000068">very softly,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and hid himself where he could hear everything.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">When Wild Dog reached the mouth of the Cave he lifted up the dried horse-skin with his nose and sniffed the beautiful smell of the roast mutton,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000072">looking at the blade-bone,</span>
   <span id="f000073">heard him,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000076">’Here comes the first.</span>
   <span id="f000077">Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000078">what do you want?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">Wild Dog said,</span>
   <span id="f000080">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy,</span>
   <span id="f000081">what is this that smells so good in the Wild Woods?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">Then the Woman picked up a roasted mutton-bone and threw it to Wild Dog,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000084">’Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000085">taste and try.’ Wild Dog gnawed the bone,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and it was more delicious than anything he had ever tasted,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000088">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy,</span>
   <span id="f000089">give me another.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">The Woman said,</span>
   <span id="f000091">’Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000092">help my Man to hunt through the day and guard this Cave at night,</span>
   <span id="f000093">and I will give you as many roast bones as you need.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">’Ah!’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000095">listening.</span>
   <span id="f000096">’This is a very wise Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but she is not so wise as I am.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Wild Dog crawled into the Cave and laid his head on the Woman’s lap,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000100">’O my Friend and Wife of my Friend,</span>
   <span id="f000101">I will help Your Man to hunt through the day,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and at night I will guard your Cave.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">’Ah!’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000104">listening.</span>
   <span id="f000105">’That is a very foolish Dog.’ And he went back through the Wet Wild Woods waving his wild tail,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and walking by his wild lone.</span>
   <span id="f000107">But he never told anybody.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">When the Man waked up he said,</span>
   <span id="f000109">’What is Wild Dog doing here?’ And the Woman said,</span>
   <span id="f000110">’His name is not Wild Dog any more,</span>
   <span id="f000111">but the First Friend,</span>
   <span id="f000112">because he will be our friend for always and always and always.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Take him with you when you go hunting.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">Next night the Woman cut great green armfuls of fresh grass from the water-meadows,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and dried it before the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000116">so that it smelt like new-mown hay,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and she sat at the mouth of the Cave and plaited a halter out of horse-hide,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and she looked at the shoulder of mutton-bone – at the big broad blade-bone – and she made a Magic.</span>
   <span id="f000119">She made the Second Singing Magic in the world.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">Out in the Wild Woods all the wild animals wondered what had happened to Wild Dog,</span>
   <span id="f000121">and at last Wild Horse stamped with his foot and said,</span>
   <span id="f000122">’I will go and see and say why Wild Dog has not returned.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000124">come with me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">’Nenni!’ said the Cat.</span>
   <span id="f000126">’I am the Cat who walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and all places are alike to me.</span>
   <span id="f000128">I will not come.’ But all the same he followed Wild Horse softly,</span>
   <span id="f000129">very softly,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and hid himself where he could hear everything.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">When the Woman heard Wild Horse tripping and stumbling on his long mane,</span>
   <span id="f000132">she laughed and said,</span>
   <span id="f000133">’Here comes the second.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods what do you want?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">Wild Horse said,</span>
   <span id="f000136">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy,</span>
   <span id="f000137">where is Wild Dog?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">The Woman laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and picked up the blade-bone and looked at it,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000141">’Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000142">you did not come here for Wild Dog,</span>
   <span id="f000143">but for the sake of this good grass.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">And Wild Horse,</span>
   <span id="f000145">tripping and stumbling on his long mane,</span>
   <span id="f000146">said,</span>
   <span id="f000147">’That is true;</span>
   <span id="f000148">give it me to eat.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">The Woman said,</span>
   <span id="f000150">’Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000151">bend your wild head and wear what I give you,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and you shall eat the wonderful grass three times a day.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">’Ah,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000154">listening,</span>
   <span id="f000155">’this is a clever Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000156">but she is not so clever as I am.’ Wild Horse bent his wild head,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and the Woman slipped the plaited hide halter over it,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and Wild Horse breathed on the Woman’s feet and said,</span>
   <span id="f000159">’O my Mistress,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and Wife of my Master,</span>
   <span id="f000161">I will be your servant for the sake of the wonderful grass.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">’Ah,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000163">listening,</span>
   <span id="f000164">’that is a very foolish Horse.’ And he went back through the Wet Wild Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000165">waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone.</span>
   <span id="f000166">But he never told anybody.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">When the Man and the Dog came back from hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000168">the Man said,</span>
   <span id="f000169">’What is Wild Horse doing here?’ And the Woman said,</span>
   <span id="f000170">’His name is not Wild Horse any more,</span>
   <span id="f000171">but the First Servant,</span>
   <span id="f000172">because he will carry us from place to place for always and always and always.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Ride on his back when you go hunting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">Next day,</span>
   <span id="f000175">holding her wild head high that her wild horns should not catch in the wild trees,</span>
   <span id="f000176">Wild Cow came up to the Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and the Cat followed,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and hid himself just the same as before;</span>
   <span id="f000179">and everything happened just the same as before;</span>
   <span id="f000180">and the Cat said the same things as before,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and when Wild Cow had promised to give her milk to the Woman every day in exchange for the wonderful grass,</span>
   <span id="f000182">the Cat went back through the Wet Wild Woods waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone,</span>
   <span id="f000183">just the same as before.</span>
   <span id="f000184">But he never told anybody.</span>
   <span id="f000185">And when the Man and the Horse and the Dog came home from hunting and asked the same questions same as before,</span>
   <span id="f000186">the Woman said,</span>
   <span id="f000187">’Her name is not Wild Cow any more,</span>
   <span id="f000188">but the Giver of Good Food.</span>
   <span id="f000189">She will give us the warm white milk for always and always and always,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and I will take care of her while you and the First Friend and the First Servant go hunting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">Next day the Cat waited to see if any other Wild thing would go up to the Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000192">but no one moved in the Wet Wild Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000193">so the Cat walked there by himself;</span>
   <span id="f000194">and he saw the Woman milking the Cow,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and he saw the light of the fire in the Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and he smelt the smell of the warm white milk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">Cat said,</span>
   <span id="f000198">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy,</span>
   <span id="f000199">where did Wild Cow go?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">The Woman laughed and said,</span>
   <span id="f000201">’Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods,</span>
   <span id="f000202">go back to the Woods again,</span>
   <span id="f000203">for I have braided up my hair,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and I have put away the magic blade-bone,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and we have no more need of either friends or servants in our Cave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">Cat said,</span>
   <span id="f000207">’I am not a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and I am not a servant.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I am the Cat who walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and I wish to come into your cave.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">Woman said,</span>
   <span id="f000212">’Then why did you not come with First Friend on the first night?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">Cat grew very angry and said,</span>
   <span id="f000214">’Has Wild Dog told tales of me?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">Then the Woman laughed and said,</span>
   <span id="f000216">’You are the Cat who walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and all places are alike to you.</span>
   <span id="f000218">Your are neither a friend nor a servant.</span>
   <span id="f000219">You have said it yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Go away and walk by yourself in all places alike.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">Then Cat pretended to be sorry and said,</span>
   <span id="f000222">’Must I never come into the Cave?</span>
   <span id="f000223">Must I never sit by the warm fire?</span>
   <span id="f000224">Must I never drink the warm white milk?</span>
   <span id="f000225">You are very wise and very beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000226">You should not be cruel even to a Cat.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">Woman said,</span>
   <span id="f000228">’I knew I was wise,</span>
   <span id="f000229">but I did not know I was beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000230">So I will make a bargain with you.</span>
   <span id="f000231">If ever I say one word in your praise you may come into the Cave.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">’And if you say two words in my praise?’ said the Cat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">’I never shall,’ said the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000234">’but if I say two words in your praise,</span>
   <span id="f000235">you may sit by the fire in the Cave.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">’And if you say three words?’ said the Cat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">’I never shall,’ said the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000238">’but if I say three words in your praise,</span>
   <span id="f000239">you may drink the warm white milk three times a day for always and always and always.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">Then the Cat arched his back and said,</span>
   <span id="f000241">’Now let the Curtain at the mouth of the Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and the Fire at the back of the Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and the Milk-pots that stand beside the Fire,</span>
   <span id="f000244">remember what my Enemy and the Wife of my Enemy has said.’ And he went away through the Wet Wild Woods waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">That night when the Man and the Horse and the Dog came home from hunting,</span>
   <span id="f000246">the Woman did not tell them of the bargain that she had made with the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000247">because she was afraid that they might not like it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">Cat went far and far away and hid himself in the Wet Wild Woods by his wild lone for a long time till the Woman forgot all about him.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Only the Bat – the little upside-down Bat – that hung inside the Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000250">knew where Cat hid;</span>
   <span id="f000251">and every evening Bat would fly to Cat with news of what was happening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">One evening Bat said,</span>
   <span id="f000253">’There is a Baby in the Cave.</span>
   <span id="f000254">He is new and pink and fat and small,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and the Woman is very fond of him.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">’Ah,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000257">listening,</span>
   <span id="f000258">’but what is the Baby fond of?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">’He is fond of things that are soft and tickle,’ said the Bat.</span>
   <span id="f000260">’He is fond of warm things to hold in his arms when he goes to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000261">He is fond of being played with.</span>
   <span id="f000262">He is fond of all those things.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">’Ah,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000264">listening,</span>
   <span id="f000265">’then my time has come.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">Next night Cat walked through the Wet Wild Woods and hid very near the Cave till morning-time,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and Man and Dog and Horse went hunting.</span>
   <span id="f000268">The Woman was busy cooking that morning,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and the Baby cried and interrupted.</span>
   <span id="f000270">So she carried him outside the Cave and gave him a handful of pebbles to play with.</span>
   <span id="f000271">But still the Baby cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">Then the Cat put out his paddy paw and patted the Baby on the cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and it cooed;</span>
   <span id="f000274">and the Cat rubbed against its fat knees and tickled it under its fat chin with his tail.</span>
   <span id="f000275">And the Baby laughed;</span>
   <span id="f000276">and the Woman heard him and smiled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">Then the Bat – the little upside-down bat – that hung in the mouth of the Cave said,</span>
   <span id="f000278">’O my Hostess and Wife of my Host and Mother of my Host’s Son,</span>
   <span id="f000279">a Wild Thing from the Wild Woods is most beautifully playing with your Baby.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">’A blessing on that Wild Thing whoever he may be,’ said the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000281">straightening her back,</span>
   <span id="f000282">’for I was a busy woman this morning and he has done me a service.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">That very minute and second,</span>
   <span id="f000284">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000285">the dried horse-skin Curtain that was stretched tail-down at the mouth of the Cave fell down – whoosh!</span>
   <span id="f000286">– because it remembered the bargain she had made with the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and when the Woman went to pick it up – lo and behold!</span>
   <span id="f000288">– the Cat was sitting quite comfy inside the Cave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000290">’it is I:</span>
   <span id="f000291">for you have spoken a word in my praise,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and now I can sit within the Cave for always and always and always.</span>
   <span id="f000293">But still I am the Cat who walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and all places are alike to me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">The Woman was very angry,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and shut her lips tight and took up her spinning-wheel and began to spin.</span>
   <span id="f000297">But the Baby cried because the Cat had gone away,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and the Woman could not hush it,</span>
   <span id="f000299">for it struggled and kicked and grew black in the face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000301">’take a strand of the wire that you are spinning and tie it to your spinning-whorl and drag it along the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and I will show you a magic that shall make your Baby laugh as loudly as he is now crying.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">’I will do so,’ said the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000304">’because I am at my wits’ end;</span>
   <span id="f000305">but I will not thank you for it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">She tied the thread to the little clay spindle whorl and drew it across the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and the Cat ran after it and patted it with his paws and rolled head over heels,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and tossed it backward over his shoulder and chased it between his hind-legs and pretended to lose it,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and pounced down upon it again,</span>
   <span id="f000310">till the Baby laughed as loudly as it had been crying,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and scrambled after the Cat and frolicked all over the Cave till it grew tired and settled down to sleep with the Cat in its arms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">’Now,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000313">’I will sing the Baby a song that shall keep him asleep for an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000314">And he began to purr,</span>
   <span id="f000315">loud and low,</span>
   <span id="f000316">low and loud,</span>
   <span id="f000317">till the Baby fell fast asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000318">The Woman smiled as she looked down upon the two of them and said,</span>
   <span id="f000319">’That was wonderfully done.</span>
   <span id="f000320">No question but you are very clever,</span>
   <span id="f000321">O Cat.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">That very minute and second,</span>
   <span id="f000323">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000324">the smoke of the fire at the back of the Cave came down in clouds from the roof – puff!</span>
   <span id="f000325">– because it remembered the bargain she had made with the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and when it had cleared away – lo and behold!</span>
   <span id="f000327">– the Cat was sitting quite comfy close to the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of My Enemy,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000329">’it is I,</span>
   <span id="f000330">for you have spoken a second word in my praise,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and now I can sit by the warm fire at the back of the Cave for always and always and always.</span>
   <span id="f000332">But still I am the Cat who walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and all places are alike to me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">Then the Woman was very very angry,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and let down her hair and put more wood on the fire and brought out the broad blade-bone of the shoulder of mutton and began to make a Magic that should prevent her from saying a third word in praise of the Cat.</span>
   <span id="f000336">It was not a Singing Magic,</span>
   <span id="f000337">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000338">it was a Still Magic;</span>
   <span id="f000339">and by and by the Cave grew so still that a little wee-wee mouse crept out of a corner and ran across the floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000341">’is that little mouse part of your magic?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">’Ouh!</span>
   <span id="f000343">Chee!</span>
   <span id="f000344">No indeed!’ said the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and she dropped the blade-bone and jumped upon the footstool in front of the fire and braided up her hair very quick for fear that the mouse should run up it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">’Ah,’ said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000347">watching,</span>
   <span id="f000348">’then the mouse will do me no harm if I eat it?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">’No,’ said the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000350">braiding up her hair,</span>
   <span id="f000351">’eat it quickly and I will ever be grateful to you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">Cat made one jump and caught the little mouse,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and the Woman said,</span>
   <span id="f000354">’A hundred thanks.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Even the First Friend is not quick enough to catch little mice as you have done.</span>
   <span id="f000356">You must be very wise.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">That very moment and second,</span>
   <span id="f000358">O Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000359">the Milk-pot that stood by the fire cracked in two pieces – ffft – because it remembered the bargain she had made with the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and when the Woman jumped down from the footstool – lo and behold!</span>
   <span id="f000361">– the Cat was lapping up the warm white milk that lay in one of the broken pieces.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">’O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy,</span>
   <span id="f000363">said the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000364">’it is I;</span>
   <span id="f000365">for you have spoken three words in my praise,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and now I can drink the warm white milk three times a day for always and always and always.</span>
   <span id="f000367">But still I am the Cat who walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and all places are alike to me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">Then the Woman laughed and set the Cat a bowl of the warm white milk and said,</span>
   <span id="f000370">’O Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000371">you are as clever as a man,</span>
   <span id="f000372">but remember that your bargain was not made with the Man or the Dog,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and I do not know what they will do when they come home.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">’What is that to me?’ said the Cat.</span>
   <span id="f000375">’If I have my place in the Cave by the fire and my warm white milk three times a day I do not care what the Man or the Dog can do.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">That evening when the Man and the Dog came into the Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000377">the Woman told them all the story of the bargain while the Cat sat by the fire and smiled.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Then the Man said,</span>
   <span id="f000379">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000380">but he has not made a bargain with me or with all proper Men after me.’ Then he took off his two leather boots and he took up his little stone axe</span>
   <span id="f000381">(that makes three)</span>
   <span id="f000382">and he fetched a piece of wood and a hatchet</span>
   <span id="f000383">(that is five altogether),</span>
   <span id="f000384">and he set them out in a row and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000385">’Now we will make our bargain.</span>
   <span id="f000386">If you do not catch mice when you are in the Cave for always and always and always,</span>
   <span id="f000387">I will throw these five things at you whenever I see you,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and so shall all proper Men do after me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">’Ah,’ said the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000390">listening,</span>
   <span id="f000391">’this is a very clever Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000392">but he is not so clever as my Man.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">The Cat counted the five things</span>
   <span id="f000394">(and they looked very knobby)</span>
   <span id="f000395">and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000396">’I will catch mice when I am in the Cave for always and always and always;</span>
   <span id="f000397">but still I am the Cat who walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and all places are alike to me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">’Not when I am near,’ said the Man.</span>
   <span id="f000400">’If you had not said that last I would have put all these things away for always and always and always;</span>
   <span id="f000401">but I am now going to throw my two boots and my little stone axe</span>
   <span id="f000402">(that makes three)</span>
   <span id="f000403">at you whenever I meet you.</span>
   <span id="f000404">And so shall all proper Men do after me!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">Then the Dog said,</span>
   <span id="f000406">’Wait a minute.</span>
   <span id="f000407">He has not made a bargain with me or with all proper Dogs after me.’ And he showed his teeth and said,</span>
   <span id="f000408">’If you are not kind to the Baby while I am in the Cave for always and always and always,</span>
   <span id="f000409">I will hunt you till I catch you,</span>
   <span id="f000410">and when I catch you I will bite you.</span>
   <span id="f000411">And so shall all proper Dogs do after me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">’Ah,’ said the Woman,</span>
   <span id="f000413">listening,</span>
   <span id="f000414">’this is a very clever Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000415">but he is not so clever as the Dog.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">Cat counted the Dog’s teeth</span>
   <span id="f000417">(and they looked very pointed)</span>
   <span id="f000418">and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000419">’I will be kind to the Baby while I am in the Cave,</span>
   <span id="f000420">as long as he does not pull my tail too hard,</span>
   <span id="f000421">for always and always and always.</span>
   <span id="f000422">But still I am the Cat that walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and all places are alike to me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">’Not when I am near,’ said the Dog.</span>
   <span id="f000425">’If you had not said that last I would have shut my mouth for always and always and always;</span>
   <span id="f000426">but now I am going to hunt you up a tree whenever I meet you.</span>
   <span id="f000427">And so shall all proper Dogs do after me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">Then the Man threw his two boots and his little stone axe</span>
   <span id="f000429">(that makes three)</span>
   <span id="f000430">at the Cat,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and the Cat ran out of the Cave and the Dog chased him up a tree;</span>
   <span id="f000432">and from that day to this,</span>
   <span id="f000433">Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000434">three proper Men out of five will always throw things at a Cat whenever they meet him,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and all proper Dogs will chase him up a tree.</span>
   <span id="f000436">But the Cat keeps his side of the bargain too.</span>
   <span id="f000437">He will kill mice and he will be kind to Babies when he is in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000438">just as long as they do not pull his tail too hard.</span>
   <span id="f000439">But when he has done that,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and between times,</span>
   <span id="f000441">and when the moon gets up and night comes,</span>
   <span id="f000442">he is the Cat that walks by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and all places are alike to him.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Then he goes out to the Wet Wild Woods or up the Wet Wild Trees or on the Wet Wild Roofs,</span>
   <span id="f000445">waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone.</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000446">Pussy can sit by the fire and sing,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000447">Pussy can climb a tree,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000448">Or play with a silly old cork and string<br /></span>
   <span id="f000449">To’muse herself,</span>
   <span id="f000450">not me.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000451">But I like Binkie my dog,</span>
   <span id="f000452">because<br /></span>
   <span id="f000453">He Lnows how to behave;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000454">So,</span>
   <span id="f000455">Binkie’s the same as the First Friend was,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000456">And I am the Man in the Cave.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">Pussy will play man-Friday till<br /></span>
   <span id="f000458">It’s time to wet her paw<br /></span>
   <span id="f000459">And make her walk on the window-sill<br /></span>
   <span id="f000460">(For the footprint Crusoe saw);<br /></span>
   <span id="f000461">Then she fluffles her tail and mews,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000462">And scratches and won’t attend.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000463">But Binkie will play whatever I choose,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000464">And he is my true First Friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">Pussy will rub my knees with her head<br /></span>
   <span id="f000466">Pretending she loves me hard;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000467">But the very minute I go to my bed<br /></span>
   <span id="f000468">Pussy runs out in the yard,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000469">And there she stays till the morning-light;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000470">So I know it is only pretend;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000471">But Binkie,</span>
   <span id="f000472">he snores at my feet all night,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000473">And he is my Firstest Friend!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p011.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track12">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p013.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

