<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track13">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">The Butterfly that Stamped</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000002">This,</span>
   <span id="f000003">O my Best Beloved,</span>
   <span id="f000004">is a story – a new and a wonderful story – a story quite different from the other stories – a story about The Most Wise Sovereign Suleiman-bin-Daoud – Solomon the Son of David.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000005">There are three hundred and fifty-five stories about Suleiman-bin-Daoud;</span>
   <span id="f000006">but this is not one of them.</span>
   <span id="f000007">It is not the story of the Lapwing who found the Water;</span>
   <span id="f000008">or the Hoopoe who shaded Suleimanbin-Daoud from the heat.</span>
   <span id="f000009">It is not the story of the Glass Pavement,</span>
   <span id="f000010">or the Ruby with the Crooked Hole,</span>
   <span id="f000011">or the Gold Bars of Balkis.</span>
   <span id="f000012">It is the story of the Butterfly that Stamped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">Now attend all over again and listen!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">Suleiman-bin-Daoud was wise.</span>
   <span id="f000015">He understood what the beasts said,</span>
   <span id="f000016">what the birds said,</span>
   <span id="f000017">what the fishes said,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and what the insects said.</span>
   <span id="f000019">He understood what the rocks said deep under the earth when they bowed in towards each other and groaned;</span>
   <span id="f000020">and he understood what the trees said when they rustled in the middle of the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000021">He understood everything,</span>
   <span id="f000022">from the bishop on the bench to the hyssop on the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and Balkis,</span>
   <span id="f000024">his Head Queen,</span>
   <span id="f000025">the Most Beautiful Queen Balkis,</span>
   <span id="f000026">was nearly as wise as he was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">Suleiman-bin-Daoud was strong.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Upon the third finger of the right hand he wore a ring.</span>
   <span id="f000029">When he turned it once,</span>
   <span id="f000030">Afrits and Djinns came Out of the earth to do whatever he told them.</span>
   <span id="f000031">When he turned it twice,</span>
   <span id="f000032">Fairies came down from the sky to do whatever he told them;</span>
   <span id="f000033">and when he turned it three times,</span>
   <span id="f000034">the very great angel Azrael of the Sword came dressed as a water-carrier,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and told him the news of the three worlds,</span>
   <span id="f000036">Above – Below – and Here.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">And yet Suleiman-bin-Daoud was not proud.</span>
   <span id="f000038">He very seldom showed off,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and when he did he was sorry for it.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Once he tried to feed all the animals in all the world in one day,</span>
   <span id="f000041">but when the food was ready an Animal came out of the deep sea and ate it up in three mouthfuls.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Suleiman-bin-Daoud was very surprised and said,</span>
   <span id="f000043">’O Animal,</span>
   <span id="f000044">who are you?’ And the Animal said,</span>
   <span id="f000045">’O King,</span>
   <span id="f000046">live for ever!</span>
   <span id="f000047">I am the smallest of thirty thousand brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and our home is at the bottom of the sea.</span>
   <span id="f000049">We heard that you were going to feed all the animals in all the world,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and my brothers sent me to ask when dinner would be ready.’ Suleiman-bin-Daoud was more surprised than ever and said,</span>
   <span id="f000051">’O Animal,</span>
   <span id="f000052">you have eaten all the dinner that I made ready for all the animals in the world.’ And the Animal said,</span>
   <span id="f000053">’O King,</span>
   <span id="f000054">live for ever,</span>
   <span id="f000055">but do you really call that a dinner?</span>
   <span id="f000056">Where I come from we each eat twice as much as that between meals.’ Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud fell flat on his face and said,</span>
   <span id="f000057">’O Animal!</span>
   <span id="f000058">I gave that dinner to show what a great and rich king I was,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and not because I really wanted to be kind to the animals.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Now I am ashamed,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and it serves me right.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Suleiman-bin-Daoud was a really truly wise man,</span>
   <span id="f000063">Best Beloved.</span>
   <span id="f000064">After that he never forgot that it was silly to show off;</span>
   <span id="f000065">and now the real story part of my story begins.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">He married ever so many wifes.</span>
   <span id="f000067">He married nine hundred and ninety-nine wives,</span>
   <span id="f000068">besides the Most Beautiful Balkis;</span>
   <span id="f000069">and they all lived in a great golden palace in the middle of a lovely garden with fountains.</span>
   <span id="f000070">He didn’t really want nine-hundred and ninety-nine wives,</span>
   <span id="f000071">but in those days everybody married ever so many wives,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and of course the King had to marry ever so many more just to show that he was the King.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">Some of the wives were nice,</span>
   <span id="f000074">but some were simply horrid,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and the horrid ones quarrelled with the nice ones and made them horrid too,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and then they would all quarrel with Suleiman-bin-Daoud,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and that was horrid for him.</span>
   <span id="f000078">But Balkis the Most Beautiful never quarrelled with Suleiman-bin-Daoud.</span>
   <span id="f000079">She loved him too much.</span>
   <span id="f000080">She sat in her rooms in the Golden Palace,</span>
   <span id="f000081">or walked in the Palace garden,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and was truly sorry for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">Of course if he had chosen to turn his ring on his finger and call up the Djinns and the Afrits they would have magicked all those nine hundred and ninety-nine quarrelsome wives into white mules of the desert or greyhounds or pomegranate seeds;</span>
   <span id="f000084">but Suleiman-bin-Daoud thought that that would be showing off.</span>
   <span id="f000085">So,</span>
   <span id="f000086">when they quarrelled too much,</span>
   <span id="f000087">he only walked by himself in one part of the beautiful Palace gardens and wished he had never been born.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">One day,</span>
   <span id="f000089">when they had quarrelled for three weeks – all nine hundred and ninety-nine wives together – Suleiman-bin-Daoud went out for peace and quiet as usual;</span>
   <span id="f000090">and among the orange trees he met Balkis the Most Beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000091">very sorrowful because Suleiman-bin-Daoud was so worried.</span>
   <span id="f000092">And she said to him,</span>
   <span id="f000093">’O my Lord and Light of my Eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000094">turn the ring upon your finger and show these Queens of Egypt and Mesopotamia and Persia and China that you are the great and terrible King.’ But Suleiman-bin-Daoud shook his head and said,</span>
   <span id="f000095">’O my Lady and Delight of my Life,</span>
   <span id="f000096">remember the Animal that came out of the sea and made me ashamed before all the animals in all the world because I showed off.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000098">if I showed off before these Queens of Persia and Egypt and Abyssinia and China,</span>
   <span id="f000099">merely because they worry me,</span>
   <span id="f000100">I might be made even more ashamed than I have been.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">And Balkis the Most Beautiful said,</span>
   <span id="f000102">’O my Lord and Treasure of my Soul,</span>
   <span id="f000103">what will you do?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">And Suleiman-bin-Daoud said,</span>
   <span id="f000105">’O my Lady and Content of my Heart,</span>
   <span id="f000106">I shall continue to endure my fate at the hands of these nine hundred and ninety-nine Queens who vex me with their continual quarrelling.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">So he went on between the lilies and the loquats and the roses and the cannas and the heavy-scented ginger-plants that grew in the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000108">till he came to the great camphor-tree that was called the Camphor Tree of Suleiman-bin-Daoud.</span>
   <span id="f000109">But Balkis hid among the tall irises and the spotted bamboos and the red lillies behind the camphor-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000110">so as to be near her own true love,</span>
   <span id="f000111">Suleiman-bin-Daoud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">Presently two Butterflies flew under the tree,</span>
   <span id="f000113">quarrelling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">Suleiman-bin-Daoud heard one say to the other,</span>
   <span id="f000115">’I wonder at your presumption in talking like this to me.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Don’t you know that if I stamped with my foot all Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s Palace and this garden here would immediately vanish in a clap of thunder.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud forgot his nine hundred and ninety-nine bothersome wives,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000119">till the camphor-tree shook,</span>
   <span id="f000120">at the Butterfly’s boast.</span>
   <span id="f000121">And he held out his finger and said,</span>
   <span id="f000122">’Little man,</span>
   <span id="f000123">come here.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">The Butterfly was dreadfully frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000125">but he managed to fly up to the hand of Suleiman-bin-Daoud,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and clung there,</span>
   <span id="f000127">fanning himself.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Suleiman-bin-Daoud bent his head and whispered very softly,</span>
   <span id="f000129">’Little man,</span>
   <span id="f000130">you know that all your stamping wouldn’t bend one blade of grass.</span>
   <span id="f000131">What made you tell that awful fib to your wife?</span>
   <span id="f000132">– for doubtless she is your wife.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">The Butterfly looked at Suleiman-bin-Daoud and saw the most wise King’s eye twinkle like stars on a frosty night,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and he picked up his courage with both wings,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and he put his head on one side and said,</span>
   <span id="f000136">’O King,</span>
   <span id="f000137">live for ever.</span>
   <span id="f000138">She is my wife;</span>
   <span id="f000139">and you know what wives are like.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">Suleiman-bin-Daoud smiled in his beard and said,</span>
   <span id="f000141">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000142">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000143">little brother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">’One must keep them in order somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000145">said the Butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and she has been quarrelling with me all the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000147">I said that to quiet her.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">And Suleiman-bin-Daoud said,</span>
   <span id="f000149">’May it quiet her.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Go back to your wife,</span>
   <span id="f000151">little brother,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and let me hear what you say.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">Back flew the Butterfly to his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000154">who was all of a twitter behind a leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and she said,</span>
   <span id="f000156">’He heard you!</span>
   <span id="f000157">Suleiman-bin-Daoud himself heard you!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">’Heard me!’ said the Butterfly.</span>
   <span id="f000159">’Of course he did.</span>
   <span id="f000160">I meant him to hear me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">’And what did he say?</span>
   <span id="f000162">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000163">what did he say?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">’Well,’ said the Butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000165">fanning himself most importantly,</span>
   <span id="f000166">’between you and me,</span>
   <span id="f000167">my dear – of course I don’t blame him,</span>
   <span id="f000168">because his Palace must have cost a great deal and the oranges are just ripening,</span>
   <span id="f000169">– he asked me not to stamp,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and I promised I wouldn’t.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">’Gracious!’ said his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and sat quite quiet;</span>
   <span id="f000173">but Suleiman-bin-Daoud laughed till the tears ran down his face at the impudence of the bad little Butterfly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">Balkis the Most Beautiful stood up behind the tree among the red lilies and smiled to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000175">for she had heard all this talk.</span>
   <span id="f000176">She thought,</span>
   <span id="f000177">’If I am wise I can yet save my Lord from the persecutions of these quarrelsome Queens,’ and she held out her finger and whispered softly to the Butterfly’s Wife,</span>
   <span id="f000178">’Little woman,</span>
   <span id="f000179">come here.’ Up flew the Butterfly’s Wife,</span>
   <span id="f000180">very frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and clung to Balkis’s white hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">Balkis bent her beautiful head down and whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000183">’Little woman,</span>
   <span id="f000184">do you believe what your husband has just said?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">The Butterfly’s Wife looked at Balkis,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and saw the most beautiful Queen’s eyes shining like deep pools with starlight on them,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and she picked up her courage with both wings and said,</span>
   <span id="f000188">’O Queen,</span>
   <span id="f000189">be lovely for ever.</span>
   <span id="f000190">You know what men-folk are like.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">And the Queen Balkis,</span>
   <span id="f000192">the Wise Balkis of Sheba,</span>
   <span id="f000193">put her hand to her lips to hide a smile and said,</span>
   <span id="f000194">’Little sister,</span>
   <span id="f000195">I know.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">’They get angry,’ said the Butterfly’s Wife,</span>
   <span id="f000197">fanning herself quickly,</span>
   <span id="f000198">’over nothing at all,</span>
   <span id="f000199">but we must humour them,</span>
   <span id="f000200">O Queen.</span>
   <span id="f000201">They never mean half they say.</span>
   <span id="f000202">If it pleases my husband to believe that I believe he can make Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s Palace disappear by stamping his foot,</span>
   <span id="f000203">I’m sure I don’t care.</span>
   <span id="f000204">He’ll forget all about it to-morrow.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">’Little sister,’ said Balkis,</span>
   <span id="f000206">’you are quite right;</span>
   <span id="f000207">but next time he begins to boast,</span>
   <span id="f000208">take him at his word.</span>
   <span id="f000209">Ask him to stamp,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and see what will happen.</span>
   <span id="f000211">We know what men-folk are like,</span>
   <span id="f000212">don’t we?</span>
   <span id="f000213">He’ll be very much ashamed.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">Away flew the Butterfly’s Wife to her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and in five minutes they were quarrelling worse than ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">’Remember!’ said the Butterfly.</span>
   <span id="f000217">’Remember what I can do if I stamp my foot.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">’I don’t believe you one little bit,’ said the Butterfly’s Wife.</span>
   <span id="f000219">’I should very much like to see it done.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Suppose you stamp now.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">’I promised Suleiman-bin-Daoud that I wouldn’t,’ said the Butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000222">’and I don’t want to break my promise.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">’It wouldn’t matter if you did,’ said his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000224">’You couldn’t bend a blade of grass with your stamping.</span>
   <span id="f000225">I dare you to do it,’ she said.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Stamp!</span>
   <span id="f000227">Stamp!</span>
   <span id="f000228">Stamp!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">Suleiman-bin-Daoud,</span>
   <span id="f000230">sitting under the camphor-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000231">heard every word of this,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and he laughed as he had never laughed in his life before.</span>
   <span id="f000233">He forgot all about his Queens;</span>
   <span id="f000234">he forgot all about the Animal that came out of the sea;</span>
   <span id="f000235">he forgot about showing off.</span>
   <span id="f000236">He just laughed with joy,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and Balkis,</span>
   <span id="f000238">on the other side of the tree,</span>
   <span id="f000239">smiled because her own true love was so joyful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">Presently the Butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000241">very hot and puffy,</span>
   <span id="f000242">came whirling back under the shadow of the camphor-tree and said to Suleiman,</span>
   <span id="f000243">’She wants me to stamp!</span>
   <span id="f000244">She wants to see what will happen,</span>
   <span id="f000245">O Suleiman-bin-Daoud!</span>
   <span id="f000246">You know I can’t do it,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and now she’ll never believe a word I say.</span>
   <span id="f000248">She’ll laugh at me to the end of my days!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000250">little brother,’ said Suleiman-bin-Daoud,</span>
   <span id="f000251">’she will never laugh at you again,’ and he turned the ring on his finger – just for the little Butterfly’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000252">not for the sake of showing off,</span>
   <span id="f000253">– and,</span>
   <span id="f000254">lo and behold,</span>
   <span id="f000255">four huge Djinns came out of the earth!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">’Slaves,’ said Suleiman-bin-Daoud,</span>
   <span id="f000257">’when this gentleman on my finger’</span>
   <span id="f000258">(that was where the impudent Butterfly was sitting)</span>
   <span id="f000259">’stamps his left front forefoot you will make my Palace and these gardens disappear in a clap of thunder.</span>
   <span id="f000260">When he stamps again you will bring them back carefully.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">’Now,</span>
   <span id="f000262">little brother,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000263">’go back to your wife and stamp all you’ve a mind to.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">Away flew the Butterfly to his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000265">who was crying,</span>
   <span id="f000266">’I dare you to do it!</span>
   <span id="f000267">I dare you to do it!</span>
   <span id="f000268">Stamp!</span>
   <span id="f000269">Stamp now!</span>
   <span id="f000270">Stamp!’ Balkis saw the four vast Djinns stoop down to the four corners of the gardens with the Palace in the middle,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and she clapped her hands softly and said,</span>
   <span id="f000272">’At last Suleiman-bin-Daoud will do for the sake of a Butterfly what he ought to have done long ago for his own sake,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and the quarrelsome Queens will be frightened!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">The the butterfly stamped.</span>
   <span id="f000275">The Djinns jerked the Palace and the gardens a thousand miles into the air:</span>
   <span id="f000276">there was a most awful thunder-clap,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and everything grew inky-black.</span>
   <span id="f000278">The Butterfly’s Wife fluttered about in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000279">crying,</span>
   <span id="f000280">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000281">I’ll be good!</span>
   <span id="f000282">I’m so sorry I spoke.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Only bring the gardens back,</span>
   <span id="f000284">my dear darling husband,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and I’ll never contradict again.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">The Butterfly was nearly as frightened as his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and Suleiman-bin-Daoud laughed so much that it was several minutes before he found breath enough to whisper to the Butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000288">’Stamp again,</span>
   <span id="f000289">little brother.</span>
   <span id="f000290">Give me back my Palace,</span>
   <span id="f000291">most great magician.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000293">give him back his Palace,’ said the Butterfly’s Wife,</span>
   <span id="f000294">still flying about in the dark like a moth.</span>
   <span id="f000295">’Give him back his Palace,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and don’t let’s have any more horrid.magic.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000298">my dear,’ said the Butterfly as bravely as he could,</span>
   <span id="f000299">’you see what your nagging has led to.</span>
   <span id="f000300">Of course it doesn’t make any difference to me – I’m used to this kind of thing – but as a favour to you and to Suleiman-bin-Daoud I don’t mind putting things right.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">So he stamped once more,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and that instant the Djinns let down the Palace and the gardens,</span>
   <span id="f000303">without even a bump.</span>
   <span id="f000304">The sun shone on the dark-green orange leaves;</span>
   <span id="f000305">the fountains played among the pink Egyptian lilies;</span>
   <span id="f000306">the birds went on singing,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and the Butterfly’s Wife lay on her side under the camphor-tree waggling her wings and panting,</span>
   <span id="f000308">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000309">I’ll be good!</span>
   <span id="f000310">I’ll be good!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">Suleiman-bin-Daolld could hardly speak for laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000312">He leaned back all weak and hiccoughy,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and shook his finger at the Butterfly and said,</span>
   <span id="f000314">’O great wizard,</span>
   <span id="f000315">what is the sense of returning to me my Palace if at the same time you slay me with mirth!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">Then came a terrible noise,</span>
   <span id="f000317">for all the nine hundred and ninety-nine Queens ran out of the Palace shrieking and shouting and calling for their babies.</span>
   <span id="f000318">They hurried down the great marble steps below the fountain,</span>
   <span id="f000319">one hundred abreast,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and the Most Wise Balkis went statelily forward to meet them and said,</span>
   <span id="f000321">’What is your trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000322">O Queens?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">They stood on the marble steps one hundred abreast and shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000324">’What is our trouble?</span>
   <span id="f000325">We were living peacefully in our golden palace,</span>
   <span id="f000326">as is our custom,</span>
   <span id="f000327">when upon a sudden the Palace disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and we were left sitting in a thick and noisome darkness;</span>
   <span id="f000329">and it thundered,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and Djinns and Afrits moved about in the darkness!</span>
   <span id="f000331">That is our trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000332">O Head Queen,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and we are most extremely troubled on account of that trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000334">for it was a troublesome trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000335">unlike any trouble we have known.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">Then Balkis the Most Beautiful Queen – Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s Very Best Beloved – Queen that was of Sheba and Sable and the Rivers of the Gold of the South – from the Desert of Zinn to the Towers of Zimbabwe – Balkis,</span>
   <span id="f000337">almost as wise as the Most Wise Suleiman-bin-Daoud himself,</span>
   <span id="f000338">said,</span>
   <span id="f000339">’It is nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000340">O Queens!</span>
   <span id="f000341">A Butterfly has made complaint against his wife because she quarrelled with him,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and it has pleased our Lord Suleiman-bin-Daoud to teach her a lesson in low-speaking and humbleness,</span>
   <span id="f000343">for that is counted a virtue among the wives of the butterflies.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">Then up and spoke an Egyptian Queen – the daughter of a Pharoah – and she said,</span>
   <span id="f000345">’Our Palace cannot be plucked up by the roots like a leek for the sake of a little insect.</span>
   <span id="f000346">No!</span>
   <span id="f000347">Suleiman-bin-Daoud must be dead,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and what we heard and saw was the earth thundering and darkening at the news.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">Then Balkis beckoned that bold Queen without looking at her,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and said to her and to the others,</span>
   <span id="f000351">’Come and see.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">They came down the marble steps,</span>
   <span id="f000353">one hundred abreast,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and beneath his camphor-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000355">still weak with laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000356">they saw the Most Wise King Suleiman-bin-Daoud rocking back and forth with a Butterfly on either hand,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and they heard him say,</span>
   <span id="f000358">’O wife of my brother in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000359">remember after this,</span>
   <span id="f000360">to please your husband in all things,</span>
   <span id="f000361">lest he be provoked to stamp his foot yet again;</span>
   <span id="f000362">for he has said that he is used to this magic,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and he is most eminently a great magician – one who steals away the very Palace of Suleirnan-bin-Daoud himself.</span>
   <span id="f000364">Go in peace,</span>
   <span id="f000365">little folk!’ And he kissed them on the wings,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and they flew away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">Then all the Queens except Balkis – the Most Beautiful and Splendid Balkis,</span>
   <span id="f000368">who stood apart smiling – fell flat on their faces,</span>
   <span id="f000369">for they said,</span>
   <span id="f000370">’If these things are done when a Butterfly is displeased with his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000371">what shall be done to us who have vexed our King with our loud-speaking and open quarrelling through many days?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">Then they put their veils over their heads,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and they put their hands over their mouths,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and they tiptoed back to the Palace most mousy-quiet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">Then Balkis – The Most Beautiful and Excellent Balkis – went forward through the red lilies into the shade of the camphor-tree and laid her hand upon Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s shoulder and said,</span>
   <span id="f000376">’O my Lord and Treasure of my Soul,</span>
   <span id="f000377">rejoice,</span>
   <span id="f000378">for we have taught the Queens of Egypt and Ethiopia and Abyssinia and Persia and India and China with a great and a memorable teaching.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">And Suleiman-bin-Daoud,</span>
   <span id="f000380">still looking after the Butterflies where they played in the sunlight,</span>
   <span id="f000381">said,</span>
   <span id="f000382">’O my Lady and Jewel of my Felicity,</span>
   <span id="f000383">when did this happen?</span>
   <span id="f000384">For I have been jesting with a Butterfly ever since I came into the garden.’ And he told Balkis what he had done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">Balkis – The tender and Most Lovely Balkis – said,</span>
   <span id="f000386">’O my Lord and Regent of my Existence,</span>
   <span id="f000387">I hid behind the camphor-tree and saw it all.</span>
   <span id="f000388">It was I who told the Butterfly’s Wife to ask the Butterfly to stamp,</span>
   <span id="f000389">because I hoped that for the sake of the jest my Lord would make some great magic and that the Queens would see it and be frightened.’ And she told him what the Queens had said and seen and thought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud rose up from his seat under the camphor-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and stretched his arms and rejoiced and said,</span>
   <span id="f000392">’O my Lady and Sweetener of my Days,</span>
   <span id="f000393">know that if I had made a magic against my Queens for the sake of pride or anger,</span>
   <span id="f000394">as I made that feast for all the animals,</span>
   <span id="f000395">I should certainly have been put to shame.</span>
   <span id="f000396">But by means of your wisdom I made the magic for the sake of a jest and for the sake of a little Butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and – behold – it has also delivered me from the vexations of my vexatious wives!</span>
   <span id="f000398">Tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000399">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000400">O my Lady and Heart of my Heart,</span>
   <span id="f000401">how did you come to be so wise?’ And Balkis the Queen,</span>
   <span id="f000402">beautiful and tall,</span>
   <span id="f000403">looked up into Suleiman-bin-Daoud’s eyes and put her head a little on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000404">just like the Butterfly,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000406">’First,</span>
   <span id="f000407">O my Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000408">because I loved you;</span>
   <span id="f000409">and secondly,</span>
   <span id="f000410">O my Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000411">because I know what women-folk are.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">Then they went up to the Palace and lived happily ever afterwards.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">But wasn’t it clever of Balkis?</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000414">There was never a Queen like Balkis,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000415">From here to the wide world’s end;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000416">But Balkis tailed to a butterfly<br /></span>
   <span id="f000417">As you would talk to a friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">There was never a King like Solomon,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000419">Not since the world began;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000420">But Solomon talked to a butterfly<br /></span>
   <span id="f000421">As a man would talk to a man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">She was Queen of Sabaea – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000423">And he was Asia’s Lord – <br /></span>
   <span id="f000424">But they both of ’em talked to butterflies<br /></span>
   <span id="f000425">When they took their walks abroad!</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p012.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track13">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

