<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />John de Forest</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Reginald Blake, Financier and Cad</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Jerome K. Jerome</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">The advantage of literature over life is that its characters are clearly defined,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and act consistently.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Nature,</span>
   <span id="f000010">always inartistic,</span>
   <span id="f000011">takes pleasure in creating the impossible.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Reginald Blake was as typical a specimen of the well-bred cad as one could hope to find between Piccadilly Circus and Hyde Park Corner.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Vicious without passion,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and possessing brain without mind,</span>
   <span id="f000015">existence presented to him no difficulties,</span>
   <span id="f000016">while his pleasures brought him no pains.</span>
   <span id="f000017">His morality was bounded by the doctor on the one side,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and the magistrate on the other.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Careful never to outrage the decrees of either,</span>
   <span id="f000020">he was at forty-five still healthy,</span>
   <span id="f000021">though stout;</span>
   <span id="f000022">and had achieved the not too easy task of amassing a fortune while avoiding all risk of Holloway.</span>
   <span id="f000023">He and his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000024">Edith</span>
   <span id="f000025">(<em>nee</em> Eppington),</span>
   <span id="f000026">were as ill-matched a couple as could be conceived by any dramatist seeking material for a problem play.</span>
   <span id="f000027">As they stood before the altar on their wedding morn,</span>
   <span id="f000028">they might have been taken as symbolising satyr and saint.</span>
   <span id="f000029">More than twenty years his junior,</span>
   <span id="f000030">beautiful with the beauty of a Raphael’s Madonna,</span>
   <span id="f000031">his every touch of her seemed a sacrilege.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Yet once in his life Mr.&#160;Blake played the part of a great gentleman;</span>
   <span id="f000033">Mrs.&#160;Blake,</span>
   <span id="f000034">on the same occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000035">contenting herself with a singularly mean <em>role</em> – mean even for a woman in love.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">The affair,</span>
   <span id="f000037">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000038">had been a marriage of convenience.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Blake,</span>
   <span id="f000040">to do him justice,</span>
   <span id="f000041">had made no pretence to anything beyond admiration and regard.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Few things grow monotonous sooner than irregularity.</span>
   <span id="f000043">He would tickle his jaded palate with respectability,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and try for a change the companionship of a good woman.</span>
   <span id="f000045">The girl’s face drew him,</span>
   <span id="f000046">as the moonlight holds a man who,</span>
   <span id="f000047">bored by the noise,</span>
   <span id="f000048">turns from a heated room to press his forehead to the window-pane.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Accustomed to bid for what he wanted,</span>
   <span id="f000050">he offered his price.</span>
   <span id="f000051">The Eppington family was poor and numerous.</span>
   <span id="f000052">The girl,</span>
   <span id="f000053">bred up to the false notions of duty inculcated by a narrow conventionality,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and,</span>
   <span id="f000055">feminine like,</span>
   <span id="f000056">half in love with martyrdom for its own sake,</span>
   <span id="f000057">let her father bargain for a higher price,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and then sold herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">To a drama of this description,</span>
   <span id="f000060">a lover is necessary,</span>
   <span id="f000061">if the complications are to be of interest to the outside world.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Harry Sennett,</span>
   <span id="f000063">a pleasant-looking enough young fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000064">in spite of his receding chin,</span>
   <span id="f000065">was possessed,</span>
   <span id="f000066">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000067">of more good intention than sense.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Under the influence of Edith’s stronger character he was soon persuaded to acquiesce meekly in the proposed arrangement.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Both succeeded in convincing themselves that they were acting nobly.</span>
   <span id="f000070">The tone of the farewell interview,</span>
   <span id="f000071">arranged for the eve of the wedding,</span>
   <span id="f000072">would have been fit and proper to the occasion had Edith been a modern Joan of Arc about to sacrifice her own happiness on the altar of a great cause;</span>
   <span id="f000073">as the girl was merely selling herself into ease and luxury,</span>
   <span id="f000074">for no higher motive than the desire to enable a certain number of more or less worthy relatives to continue living beyond their legitimate means,</span>
   <span id="f000075">the sentiment was perhaps exaggerated.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Many tears were shed,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and many everlasting good- byes spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000078">though,</span>
   <span id="f000079">seeing that Edith’s new home would be only a few streets off,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and that of necessity their social set would continue to be the same,</span>
   <span id="f000081">more experienced persons might have counselled hope.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Three months after the marriage they found themselves side by side at the same dinner-table;</span>
   <span id="f000083">and after a little melodramatic fencing with what they were pleased to regard as fate,</span>
   <span id="f000084">they accommodated themselves to the customary positions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">Blake was quite aware that Sennett had been Edith’s lover.</span>
   <span id="f000086">So had half a dozen other men,</span>
   <span id="f000087">some younger,</span>
   <span id="f000088">some older than himself.</span>
   <span id="f000089">He felt no more embarrassment at meeting them than,</span>
   <span id="f000090">standing on the pavement outside the Stock Exchange,</span>
   <span id="f000091">he would have experienced greeting his brother jobbers after a settling day that had transferred a fortune from their hands into his.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Sennett,</span>
   <span id="f000093">in particular,</span>
   <span id="f000094">he liked and encouraged.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Our whole social system,</span>
   <span id="f000096">always a mystery to the philosopher,</span>
   <span id="f000097">owes its existence to the fact that few men and women possess sufficient intelligence to be interesting to themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Blake liked company,</span>
   <span id="f000099">but not much company liked Blake.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Young Sennett,</span>
   <span id="f000101">however,</span>
   <span id="f000102">could always be relied upon to break the tediousness of the domestic dialogue.</span>
   <span id="f000103">A common love of sport drew the two men together.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Most of us improve upon closer knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and so they came to find good in one another.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“That is the man you ought to have married,” said Blake one night to his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000107">half laughingly,</span>
   <span id="f000108">half seriously,</span>
   <span id="f000109">as they sat alone,</span>
   <span id="f000110">listening to Sennett’s departing footsteps echoing upon the deserted pavement.</span>
   <span id="f000111">“He’s a good fellow – not a mere money-grubbing machine like me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">And a week later Sennett,</span>
   <span id="f000113">sitting alone with Edith,</span>
   <span id="f000114">suddenly broke out with:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“He’s a better man than I am,</span>
   <span id="f000116">with all my high-falutin’ talk,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and,</span>
   <span id="f000118">upon my soul,</span>
   <span id="f000119">he loves you.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Shall I go abroad?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“If you like,” was the answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“What would you do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“Kill myself,” replied the other,</span>
   <span id="f000124">with a laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000125">“or run away with the first man that asked me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">So Sennett stayed on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">Blake himself had made the path easy to them.</span>
   <span id="f000128">There was little need for either fear or caution.</span>
   <span id="f000129">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000130">their safest course lay in recklessness,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and they took it.</span>
   <span id="f000132">To Sennett the house was always open.</span>
   <span id="f000133">It was Blake himself who,</span>
   <span id="f000134">when unable to accompany his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000135">would suggest Sennett as a substitute.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Club friends shrugged their shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000137">Was the man completely under his wife’s thumb;</span>
   <span id="f000138">or,</span>
   <span id="f000139">tired of her,</span>
   <span id="f000140">was he playing some devil’s game of his own?</span>
   <span id="f000141">To most of his acquaintances the latter explanation seemed the more plausible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">The gossip,</span>
   <span id="f000143">in due course,</span>
   <span id="f000144">reached the parental home.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Mrs.&#160;Eppington shook the vials of her wrath over the head of her son-in-law.</span>
   <span id="f000146">The father,</span>
   <span id="f000147">always a cautious man,</span>
   <span id="f000148">felt inclined to blame his child for her want of prudence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“She’ll ruin everything,” he said.</span>
   <span id="f000150">“Why the devil can’t she be careful?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“I believe the man is deliberately plotting to get rid of her,” said Mrs.&#160;Eppington.</span>
   <span id="f000152">“I shall tell him plainly what I think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“You’re a fool,</span>
   <span id="f000154">Hannah,” replied her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000155">allowing himself the licence of the domestic hearth.</span>
   <span id="f000156">“If you are right,</span>
   <span id="f000157">you will only precipitate matters;</span>
   <span id="f000158">if you are wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000159">you will tell him what there is no need for him to know.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Leave the matter to me.</span>
   <span id="f000161">I can sound him without giving anything away,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and meanwhile you talk to Edith.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">So matters were arranged,</span>
   <span id="f000164">but the interview between mother and daughter hardly improved the position.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Mrs.&#160;Eppington was conventionally moral;</span>
   <span id="f000166">Edith had been thinking for herself,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and thinking in a bad atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000168">Mrs.&#160;Eppington,</span>
   <span id="f000169">grew angry at the girl’s callousness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">“Have you no sense of shame?” she cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“I had once,” was Edith’s reply,</span>
   <span id="f000172">“before I came to live here.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Do you know what this house is for me,</span>
   <span id="f000174">with its gilded mirrors,</span>
   <span id="f000175">its couches,</span>
   <span id="f000176">its soft carpets?</span>
   <span id="f000177">Do you know what I am,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and have been for two years?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">The elder woman rose,</span>
   <span id="f000180">with a frightened pleading look upon her face,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and the other stopped and turned away towards the window.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“We all thought it for the best,” continued Mrs.&#160;Eppington meekly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">The girl spoke wearily without looking round.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000185">every silly thing that was ever done,</span>
   <span id="f000186">was done for the best.</span>
   <span id="f000187"><em>I</em> thought it would be for the best,</span>
   <span id="f000188">myself.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Everything would be so simple if only we were not alive.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Don’t let’s talk any more.</span>
   <span id="f000191">All you can say is quite right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">The silence continued for a while,</span>
   <span id="f000193">the Dresden-china clock on the mantelpiece ticking louder and louder as if to say,</span>
   <span id="f000194">“I,</span>
   <span id="f000195">Time,</span>
   <span id="f000196">am here.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Do not make your plans forgetting me,</span>
   <span id="f000198">little mortals;</span>
   <span id="f000199">I change your thoughts and wills.</span>
   <span id="f000200">You are but my puppets.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Then what do you intend to do?” demanded Mrs.&#160;Eppington at length.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“Intend!</span>
   <span id="f000203">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000204">the right thing of course.</span>
   <span id="f000205">We all intend that.</span>
   <span id="f000206">I shall send Harry away with a few well-chosen words of farewell,</span>
   <span id="f000207">learn to love my husband and settle down to a life of quiet domestic bliss.</span>
   <span id="f000208">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000209">it’s easy enough to intend!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">The girl’s face wrinkled with a laugh that aged her.</span>
   <span id="f000211">In that moment it was a hard,</span>
   <span id="f000212">evil face,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and with a pang the elder woman thought of that other face,</span>
   <span id="f000214">so like,</span>
   <span id="f000215">yet so unlike – the sweet pure face of a girl that had given to a sordid home its one touch of nobility.</span>
   <span id="f000216">As under the lightning’s flash we see the whole arc of the horizon,</span>
   <span id="f000217">so Mrs.&#160;Eppington looked and saw her child’s life.</span>
   <span id="f000218">The gilded,</span>
   <span id="f000219">over-furnished room vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000220">She and a big-eyed,</span>
   <span id="f000221">fair-haired child,</span>
   <span id="f000222">the only one of her children she had ever understood,</span>
   <span id="f000223">were playing wonderful games in the twilight among the shadows of a tiny attic.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Now she was the wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000225">devouring Edith,</span>
   <span id="f000226">who was Red Riding Hood,</span>
   <span id="f000227">with kisses.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Now Cinderella’s prince,</span>
   <span id="f000229">now both her wicked sisters.</span>
   <span id="f000230">But in the favourite game of all,</span>
   <span id="f000231">Mrs.&#160;Eppington was a beautiful princess,</span>
   <span id="f000232">bewitched by a wicked dragon,</span>
   <span id="f000233">so that she seemed to be an old,</span>
   <span id="f000234">worn woman.</span>
   <span id="f000235">But curly-headed Edith fought the dragon,</span>
   <span id="f000236">represented by the three-legged rocking-horse,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and slew him with much shouting and the toasting-fork.</span>
   <span id="f000238">Then Mrs.&#160;Eppington became again a beautiful princess,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and went away with Edith back to her own people.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">In this twilight hour the misbehaviour of the “General,” the importunity of the family butcher,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and the airs assumed by cousin Jane,</span>
   <span id="f000242">who kept two servants,</span>
   <span id="f000243">were forgotten.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">The games ended.</span>
   <span id="f000245">The little curly head would be laid against her breast “for five minutes’ love,” while the restless little brain framed the endless question that children are for ever asking in all its thousand forms,</span>
   <span id="f000246">“What is life,</span>
   <span id="f000247">mother?</span>
   <span id="f000248">I am very little,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and I think,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and think,</span>
   <span id="f000251">until I grow frightened.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000253">mother,</span>
   <span id="f000254">tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000255">what is life?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">Had she dealt with these questions wisely?</span>
   <span id="f000257">Might it not have been better to have treated them more seriously?</span>
   <span id="f000258">Could life after all be ruled by maxims learned from copy-books?</span>
   <span id="f000259">She had answered as she had been answered in her own far-back days of questioning.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Might it not have been better had she thought for herself?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">Suddenly Edith was kneeling on the floor beside her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“I will try to be good,</span>
   <span id="f000263">mother.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">It was the old baby cry,</span>
   <span id="f000265">the cry of us all,</span>
   <span id="f000266">children that we are,</span>
   <span id="f000267">till mother Nature kisses us and bids us go to sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">Their arms were round each other now,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and so they sat,</span>
   <span id="f000270">mother and child once more.</span>
   <span id="f000271">And the twilight of the old attic,</span>
   <span id="f000272">creeping westward from the east,</span>
   <span id="f000273">found them again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">The masculine duet had more result,</span>
   <span id="f000275">but was not conducted with the <em>finesse</em> that Mr.&#160;Eppington,</span>
   <span id="f000276">who prided himself on his diplomacy,</span>
   <span id="f000277">had intended.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000279">so evidently ill at ease was that gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000280">when the moment came for talk,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and so palpably were his pointless remarks mere efforts to delay an unpleasant subject,</span>
   <span id="f000282">that Blake,</span>
   <span id="f000283">always direct bluntly though not ill-naturedly asked him,</span>
   <span id="f000284">“How much?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">Mr.&#160;Eppington was disconcerted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“It’s not that – at least that’s not what I have come about,” he answered confusedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“What have you come about?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">Inwardly Mr.&#160;Eppington cursed himself for a fool,</span>
   <span id="f000289">for the which he was perhaps not altogether without excuse.</span>
   <span id="f000290">He had meant to act the part of a clever counsel,</span>
   <span id="f000291">acquiring information while giving none;</span>
   <span id="f000292">by a blunder,</span>
   <span id="f000293">he found himself in the witness-box.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000295">nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000296">nothing,” was the feeble response,</span>
   <span id="f000297">“merely looked in to see how Edith was.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“Much the same as at dinner last night,</span>
   <span id="f000299">when you were here,” answered Blake.</span>
   <span id="f000300">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000301">out with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">It seemed the best course now,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and Mr.&#160;Eppington took the plunge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“Don’t you think,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000305">unconsciously glancing round the room to be sure they were alone,</span>
   <span id="f000306">“that young Sennett is a little too much about the house?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">Blake stared at him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000309">we know it is all right – as nice a young fellow as ever lived – and Edith – and all that.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000311">it’s absurd,</span>
   <span id="f000312">but – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">“But what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000315">people will talk.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“What do they say?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">The other shrugged his shoulders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">Blake rose.</span>
   <span id="f000319">He had an ugly look when angry,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and his language was apt to be coarse.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“Tell them to mind their own business,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and leave me and my wife alone.” That was the sense of what he said;</span>
   <span id="f000323">he expressed himself at greater length,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and in stronger language.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000326">my dear Blake,” urged Mr.&#160;Eppington,</span>
   <span id="f000327">“for your own sake,</span>
   <span id="f000328">is it wise?</span>
   <span id="f000329">There was a sort of boy and girl attachment between them – nothing of any moment,</span>
   <span id="f000330">but all that gives colour to gossip.</span>
   <span id="f000331">Forgive me,</span>
   <span id="f000332">but I am her father;</span>
   <span id="f000333">I do not like to hear my child talked about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Then don’t open your ears to the chatter of a pack of fools,” replied his son-in-law roughly.</span>
   <span id="f000335">But the next instant a softer expression passed over his face,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and he laid his hand on the older man’s arm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“Perhaps there are many more,</span>
   <span id="f000338">but there’s one good woman in the world,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000339">“and that’s your daughter.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Come and tell me that the Bank of England is getting shaky on its legs,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and I’ll listen to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">But the stronger the faith,</span>
   <span id="f000343">the deeper strike the roots of suspicion.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Blake said no further word on the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and Sennett was as welcome as before.</span>
   <span id="f000346">But Edith,</span>
   <span id="f000347">looking up suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000348">would sometimes find her husband’s eyes fixed on her with a troubled look as of some dumb creature trying to understand;</span>
   <span id="f000349">and often he would slip out of the house of an evening by himself,</span>
   <span id="f000350">returning home hours afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000351">tired and mud-stained.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">He made attempts to show his affection.</span>
   <span id="f000353">This was the most fatal thing he could have done.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Ill-temper,</span>
   <span id="f000355">ill-treatment even,</span>
   <span id="f000356">she might have borne.</span>
   <span id="f000357">His clumsy caresses,</span>
   <span id="f000358">his foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000359">halting words of tenderness became a horror to her.</span>
   <span id="f000360">She wondered whether to laugh or to strike at his upturned face.</span>
   <span id="f000361">His tactless devotion filled her life as with some sickly perfume,</span>
   <span id="f000362">stifling her.</span>
   <span id="f000363">If only she could be by herself for a little while to think!</span>
   <span id="f000364">But he was with her night and day.</span>
   <span id="f000365">There were times when,</span>
   <span id="f000366">as he would cross the room towards her,</span>
   <span id="f000367">he grew monstrous until he towered above her,</span>
   <span id="f000368">a formless thing such as children dream of.</span>
   <span id="f000369">And she would sit with her lips tight pressed,</span>
   <span id="f000370">clutching the chair lest she should start up screaming.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">Her only thought was to escape from him.</span>
   <span id="f000372">One day she hastily packed a few necessaries in a small hand-bag and crept unperceived from the house.</span>
   <span id="f000373">She drove to Charing Cross,</span>
   <span id="f000374">but the Continental Express did not leave for an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and she had time to think.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">Of what use was it?</span>
   <span id="f000377">Her slender stock of money would soon be gone;</span>
   <span id="f000378">how could she live?</span>
   <span id="f000379">He would find her and follow her.</span>
   <span id="f000380">It was all so hopeless!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">Suddenly a fierce desire of life seized hold of her,</span>
   <span id="f000382">the angry answer of her young blood to despair.</span>
   <span id="f000383">Why should she die,</span>
   <span id="f000384">never having known what it was to live?</span>
   <span id="f000385">Why should she prostrate herself before this juggernaut of other people’s respectability?</span>
   <span id="f000386">Joy called to her;</span>
   <span id="f000387">only her own cowardice stayed her from stretching forth her hand and gathering it.</span>
   <span id="f000388">She returned home a different woman,</span>
   <span id="f000389">for hope had come to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">A week later the butler entered the dining room,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and handed Blake a letter addressed to him in his wife’s handwriting.</span>
   <span id="f000392">He took it without a word,</span>
   <span id="f000393">as though he had been expecting it.</span>
   <span id="f000394">It simply told him that she had left him for ever.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000395">The world is small,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and money commands many services.</span>
   <span id="f000397">Sennett had gone out for a stroll;</span>
   <span id="f000398">Edith was left in the tiny <em>salon</em> of their <em>appartement</em> at Fecamp.</span>
   <span id="f000399">It was the third day of their arrival in the town.</span>
   <span id="f000400">The door was opened and closed,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and Blake stood before her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">She rose frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000403">but by a motion he reassured her.</span>
   <span id="f000404">There was a quiet dignity about the man that was strange to her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000405">“Why have you followed me?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">“I want you to return home.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“Home!” she cried.</span>
   <span id="f000408">“You must be mad.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Do you not know – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">He interrupted her vehemently.</span>
   <span id="f000411">“I know nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000412">I wish to know nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000413">Go back to London at once.</span>
   <span id="f000414">I have made everything right;</span>
   <span id="f000415">no one suspects.</span>
   <span id="f000416">I shall not be there;</span>
   <span id="f000417">you will never see me again,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and you will have an opportunity of undoing your mistake – our mistake.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">She listened.</span>
   <span id="f000420">Hers was not a great nature,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and the desire to obtain happiness without paying the price was strong upon her.</span>
   <span id="f000422">As for his good name,</span>
   <span id="f000423">what could that matter?</span>
   <span id="f000424">he urged.</span>
   <span id="f000425">People would only say that he had gone back to the evil from which he had emerged,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and few would be surprised.</span>
   <span id="f000427">His life would go on much as it had done,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and she would only be pitied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">She quite understood his plan;</span>
   <span id="f000430">it seemed mean of her to accept his proposal,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and she argued feebly against it.</span>
   <span id="f000432">But he overcame all her objections.</span>
   <span id="f000433">For his own sake,</span>
   <span id="f000434">he told her,</span>
   <span id="f000435">he would prefer the scandal to be connected with his name rather than with that of his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000436">As he unfolded his scheme,</span>
   <span id="f000437">she began to feel that in acquiescing she was conferring a favour.</span>
   <span id="f000438">It was not the first deception he had arranged for the public,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and he appeared to be half in love with his own cleverness.</span>
   <span id="f000440">She even found herself laughing at his mimicry of what this acquaintance and that would say.</span>
   <span id="f000441">Her spirits rose;</span>
   <span id="f000442">the play that might have been a painful drama seemed turning out an amusing farce.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">The thing settled,</span>
   <span id="f000444">he rose to go,</span>
   <span id="f000445">and held out his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000446">As she looked up into his face,</span>
   <span id="f000447">something about the line of his lips smote upon her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">“You will be well rid of me,” she said.</span>
   <span id="f000449">“I have brought you nothing but trouble.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000451">trouble,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000452">“If that were all!</span>
   <span id="f000453">A man can bear trouble.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“What else?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">His eyes travelled aimlessly about the room.</span>
   <span id="f000456">“They taught me a lot of things when I was a boy,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000457">“my mother and others – they meant well – which as I grew older I discovered to be lies;</span>
   <span id="f000458">and so I came to think that nothing good was true,</span>
   <span id="f000459">and that everything and everybody was evil.</span>
   <span id="f000460">And then – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">His wandering eyes came round to her and he broke off abruptly.</span>
   <span id="f000462">“Good- bye,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and the next moment he was gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">She sat wondering for a while what he had meant.</span>
   <span id="f000465">Then Sennett returned,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and the words went out of her head.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000467">A good deal of sympathy was felt for Mrs.&#160;Blake.</span>
   <span id="f000468">The man had a charming wife;</span>
   <span id="f000469">he might have kept straight;</span>
   <span id="f000470">but as his friends added,</span>
   <span id="f000471">“Blake always was a cad.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

