<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br /><em>dave k</em></span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Wedding Knell</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Nathaniel Hawthorne</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">There is a certain church,</span>
   <span id="f000008">in the city of New York which I have always regarded with peculiar interest on account of a marriage there solemnized under very singular circumstances in my grandmother’s girlhood.</span>
   <span id="f000009">That venerable lady chanced to be a spectator of the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and ever after made it her favorite narrative.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Whether the edifice now standing on the same site be the identical one to which she referred I am not antiquarian enough to know,</span>
   <span id="f000012">nor would it be worth while to correct myself,</span>
   <span id="f000013">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000014">of an agreeable error by reading the date of its erection on the tablet over the door.</span>
   <span id="f000015">It is a stately church surrounded by an enclosure of the loveliest green,</span>
   <span id="f000016">within which appear urns,</span>
   <span id="f000017">pillars,</span>
   <span id="f000018">obelisks,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and other forms of monumental marble,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the tributes of private affection or more splendid memorials of historic dust.</span>
   <span id="f000021">With such a place,</span>
   <span id="f000022">though the tumult of the city rolls beneath its tower,</span>
   <span id="f000023">one would be willing to connect some legendary interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">The marriage might be considered as the result of an early engagement,</span>
   <span id="f000025">though there had been two intermediate weddings on the lady’s part and forty years of celibacy on that of the gentleman.</span>
   <span id="f000026">At sixty-five Mr.&#160;Ellenwood was a shy but not quite a secluded man;</span>
   <span id="f000027">selfish,</span>
   <span id="f000028">like all men who brood over their own hearts,</span>
   <span id="f000029">yet manifesting on rare occasions a vein of generous sentiment;</span>
   <span id="f000030">a scholar throughout life,</span>
   <span id="f000031">though always an indolent one,</span>
   <span id="f000032">because his studies had no definite object either of public advantage or personal ambition;</span>
   <span id="f000033">a gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000034">high-bred and fastidiously delicate,</span>
   <span id="f000035">yet sometimes requiring a considerable relaxation in his behalf of the common rules of society.</span>
   <span id="f000036">In truth,</span>
   <span id="f000037">there were so many anomalies in his character,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and,</span>
   <span id="f000039">though shrinking with diseased sensibility from public notice,</span>
   <span id="f000040">it had been his fatality so often to become the topic of the day by some wild eccentricity of conduct,</span>
   <span id="f000041">that people searched his lineage for a hereditary taint of insanity.</span>
   <span id="f000042">But there was no need of this.</span>
   <span id="f000043">His caprices had their origin in a mind that lacked the support of an engrossing purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and in feelings that preyed upon themselves for want of other food.</span>
   <span id="f000045">If he were mad,</span>
   <span id="f000046">it was the consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and not the cause,</span>
   <span id="f000048">of an aimless and abortive life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">The widow was as complete a contrast to her third bridegroom in everything but age as can well be conceived.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Compelled to relinquish her first engagement,</span>
   <span id="f000051">she had been united to a man of twice her own years,</span>
   <span id="f000052">to whom she became an exemplary wife,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and by whose death she was left in possession of a splendid fortune.</span>
   <span id="f000054">A Southern gentleman considerably younger than herself succeeded to her hand and carried her to Charleston,</span>
   <span id="f000055">where after many uncomfortable years she found herself again a widow.</span>
   <span id="f000056">It would have been singular if any uncommon delicacy of feeling had survived through such a life as Mrs.&#160;Dabney’s;</span>
   <span id="f000057">it could not but be crushed and killed by her early disappointment,</span>
   <span id="f000058">the cold duty of her first marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000059">the dislocation of the heart’s principles consequent on a second union,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and the unkindness of her Southern husband,</span>
   <span id="f000061">which had inevitably driven her to connect the idea of his death with that of her comfort.</span>
   <span id="f000062">To be brief,</span>
   <span id="f000063">she was that wisest but unloveliest variety of woman,</span>
   <span id="f000064">a philosopher,</span>
   <span id="f000065">bearing troubles of the heart with equanimity,</span>
   <span id="f000066">dispensing with all that should have been her happiness and making the best of what remained.</span>
   <span id="f000067">Sage in most matters,</span>
   <span id="f000068">the widow was perhaps the more amiable for the one frailty that made her ridiculous.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Being childless,</span>
   <span id="f000070">she could not remain beautiful by proxy in the person of a daughter;</span>
   <span id="f000071">she therefore refused to grow old and ugly on any consideration;</span>
   <span id="f000072">she struggled with Time,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and held fast her roses in spite of him,</span>
   <span id="f000074">till the venerable thief appeared to have relinquished the spoil as not worth the trouble of acquiring it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">The approaching marriage of this woman of the world with such an unworldly man as Mr.&#160;Ellenwood was announced soon after Mrs.&#160;Dabney’s return to her native city.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Superficial observers,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and deeper ones,</span>
   <span id="f000078">seemed to concur in supposing that the lady must have borne no inactive part in arranging the affair;</span>
   <span id="f000079">there were considerations of expediency which she would be far more likely to appreciate than Mr.&#160;Ellenwood,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and there was just the specious phantom of sentiment and romance in this late union of two early lovers which sometimes makes a fool of a woman who has lost her true feelings among the accidents of life.</span>
   <span id="f000081">All the wonder was how the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000082">with his lack of worldly wisdom and agonizing consciousness of ridicule,</span>
   <span id="f000083">could have been induced to take a measure at once so prudent and so laughable.</span>
   <span id="f000084">But while people talked the wedding-day arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000085">The ceremony was to be solemnized according to the Episcopalian forms and in open church,</span>
   <span id="f000086">with a degree of publicity that attracted many spectators,</span>
   <span id="f000087">who occupied the front seats of the galleries and the pews near the altar and along the broad aisle.</span>
   <span id="f000088">It had been arranged,</span>
   <span id="f000089">or possibly it was the custom of the day,</span>
   <span id="f000090">that the parties should proceed separately to church.</span>
   <span id="f000091">By some accident the bridegroom was a little less punctual than the widow and her bridal attendants,</span>
   <span id="f000092">with whose arrival,</span>
   <span id="f000093">after this tedious but necessary preface,</span>
   <span id="f000094">the action of our tale may be said to commence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">The clumsy wheels of several old-fashioned coaches were heard,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and the gentlemen and ladies composing the bridal-party came through the church door with the sudden and gladsome effect of a burst of sunshine.</span>
   <span id="f000097">The whole group,</span>
   <span id="f000098">except the principal figure,</span>
   <span id="f000099">was made up of youth and gayety.</span>
   <span id="f000100">As they streamed up the broad aisle,</span>
   <span id="f000101">while the pews and pillars seemed to brighten on either side,</span>
   <span id="f000102">their steps were as buoyant as if they mistook the church for a ball-room and were ready to dance hand in hand to the altar.</span>
   <span id="f000103">So brilliant was the spectacle that few took notice of a singular phenomenon that had marked its entrance.</span>
   <span id="f000104">At the moment when the bride’s foot touched the threshold the bell swung heavily in the tower above her and sent forth its deepest knell.</span>
   <span id="f000105">The vibrations died away,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and returned with prolonged solemnity as she entered the body of the church.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“Good heavens!</span>
   <span id="f000108">What an omen!” whispered a young lady to her lover.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">“On my honor,” replied the gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000110">“I believe the bell has the good taste to toll of its own accord.</span>
   <span id="f000111">What has she to do with weddings?</span>
   <span id="f000112">If you,</span>
   <span id="f000113">dearest Julia,</span>
   <span id="f000114">were approaching the altar,</span>
   <span id="f000115">the bell would ring out its merriest peal.</span>
   <span id="f000116">It has only a funeral-knell for her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">The bride and most of her company had been too much occupied with the bustle of entrance to hear the first boding stroke of the bell – or,</span>
   <span id="f000118">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000119">to reflect on the singularity of such a welcome to the altar.</span>
   <span id="f000120">They therefore continued to advance with undiminished gayety.</span>
   <span id="f000121">The gorgeous dresses of the time – the crimson velvet coats,</span>
   <span id="f000122">the gold-laced hats,</span>
   <span id="f000123">the hoop-petticoats,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the silk,</span>
   <span id="f000125">satin,</span>
   <span id="f000126">brocade and embroidery,</span>
   <span id="f000127">the buckles,</span>
   <span id="f000128">canes and swords,</span>
   <span id="f000129">all displayed to the best advantage on persons suited to such finery – made the group appear more like a bright-colored picture than anything real.</span>
   <span id="f000130">But by what perversity of taste had the artist represented his principal figure as so wrinkled and decayed,</span>
   <span id="f000131">while yet he had decked her out in the brightest splendor of attire,</span>
   <span id="f000132">as if the loveliest maiden had suddenly withered into age and become a moral to the beautiful around her?</span>
   <span id="f000133">On they went,</span>
   <span id="f000134">however,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and had glittered along about a third of the aisle,</span>
   <span id="f000136">when another stroke of the bell seemed to fill the church with a visible gloom,</span>
   <span id="f000137">dimming and obscuring the bright-pageant till it shone forth again as from a mist.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">This time the party wavered,</span>
   <span id="f000139">stopped and huddled closer together,</span>
   <span id="f000140">while a slight scream was heard from some of the ladies and a confused whispering among the gentlemen.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Thus tossing to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000142">they might have been fancifully compared to a splendid bunch of flowers suddenly shaken by a puff of wind which threatened to scatter the leaves of an old brown,</span>
   <span id="f000143">withered rose on the same stalk with two dewy buds,</span>
   <span id="f000144">such being the emblem of the widow between her fair young bridemaids.</span>
   <span id="f000145">But her heroism was admirable.</span>
   <span id="f000146">She had started with an irrepressible shudder,</span>
   <span id="f000147">as if the stroke of the bell had fallen directly on her heart;</span>
   <span id="f000148">then,</span>
   <span id="f000149">recovering herself,</span>
   <span id="f000150">while her attendants were yet in dismay,</span>
   <span id="f000151">she took the lead and paced calmly up the aisle.</span>
   <span id="f000152">The bell continued to swing,</span>
   <span id="f000153">strike and vibrate with the same doleful regularity as when a corpse is on its way to the tomb.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“My young friends here have their nerves a little shaken,” said the widow,</span>
   <span id="f000155">with a smile,</span>
   <span id="f000156">to the clergyman at the altar.</span>
   <span id="f000157">“But so many weddings have been ushered in with the merriest peal of the bells,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and yet turned out unhappily,</span>
   <span id="f000159">that I shall hope for better fortune under such different auspices.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“Madam,” answered the rector,</span>
   <span id="f000161">in great perplexity,</span>
   <span id="f000162">“this strange occurrence brings to my mind a marriage-sermon of the famous Bishop Taylor wherein he mingles so many thoughts of mortality and future woe that,</span>
   <span id="f000163">to speak somewhat after his own rich style,</span>
   <span id="f000164">he seems to hang the bridal-chamber in black and cut the wedding-garment out of a coffin-pall.</span>
   <span id="f000165">And it has been the custom of divers nations to infuse something of sadness into their marriage ceremonies,</span>
   <span id="f000166">so to keep death in mind while contracting that engagement which is life’s chiefest business.</span>
   <span id="f000167">Thus we may draw a sad but profitable moral from this funeral-knell.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">But,</span>
   <span id="f000169">though the clergyman might have given his moral even a keener point,</span>
   <span id="f000170">he did not fail to despatch an attendant to inquire into the mystery and stop those sounds so dismally appropriate to such a marriage.</span>
   <span id="f000171">A brief space elapsed,</span>
   <span id="f000172">during which the silence was broken only by whispers and a few suppressed titterings among the wedding-party and the spectators,</span>
   <span id="f000173">who after the first shock were disposed to draw an ill-natured merriment from the affair.</span>
   <span id="f000174">The young have less charity for aged follies than the old for those of youth.</span>
   <span id="f000175">The widow’s glance was observed to wander for an instant toward a window of the church,</span>
   <span id="f000176">as if searching for the time-worn marble that she had dedicated to her first husband;</span>
   <span id="f000177">then her eyelids dropped over their faded orbs and her thoughts were drawn irresistibly to another grave.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Two buried men with a voice at her ear and a cry afar off were calling her to lie down beside them.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000180">with momentary truth of feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000181">she thought how much happier had been her fate if,</span>
   <span id="f000182">after years of bliss,</span>
   <span id="f000183">the bell were now tolling for her funeral and she were followed to the grave by the old affection of her earliest lover,</span>
   <span id="f000184">long her husband.</span>
   <span id="f000185">But why had she returned to him when their cold hearts shrank from each other’s embrace?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">Still the death-bell tolled so mournfully that the sunshine seemed to fade in the air.</span>
   <span id="f000187">A whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000188">communicated from those who stood nearest the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000189">now spread through the church:</span>
   <span id="f000190">a hearse with a train of several coaches was creeping along the street,</span>
   <span id="f000191">conveying some dead man to the churchyard,</span>
   <span id="f000192">while the bride awaited a living one at the altar.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Immediately after,</span>
   <span id="f000194">the footsteps of the bridegroom and his friends were heard at the door.</span>
   <span id="f000195">The widow looked down the aisle and clenched the arm of one of her bridemaids in her bony hand with such unconscious violence that the fair girl trembled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“You frighten me,</span>
   <span id="f000197">my dear madam,” cried she.</span>
   <span id="f000198">“For heaven’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000199">what is the matter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“Nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000201">my dear – nothing,” said the widow;</span>
   <span id="f000202">then,</span>
   <span id="f000203">whispering close to her ear,</span>
   <span id="f000204">“There is a foolish fancy that I cannot get rid of.</span>
   <span id="f000205">I am expecting my bridegroom to come into the church with my two first husbands for groomsmen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“Look!</span>
   <span id="f000207">look!” screamed the bridemaid.</span>
   <span id="f000208">“What is here?</span>
   <span id="f000209">The funeral!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">As she spoke a dark procession paced into the church.</span>
   <span id="f000211">First came an old man and woman,</span>
   <span id="f000212">like chief mourners at a funeral,</span>
   <span id="f000213">attired from head to foot in the deepest black,</span>
   <span id="f000214">all but their pale features and hoary hair,</span>
   <span id="f000215">he leaning on a staff and supporting her decrepit form with his nerveless arm.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Behind appeared another and another pair,</span>
   <span id="f000217">as aged,</span>
   <span id="f000218">as black and mournful as the first.</span>
   <span id="f000219">As they drew near the widow recognized in every face some trait of former friends long forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000220">but now returning as if from their old graves to warn her to prepare a shroud,</span>
   <span id="f000221">or,</span>
   <span id="f000222">with purpose almost as unwelcome,</span>
   <span id="f000223">to exhibit their wrinkles and infirmity and claim her as their companion by the tokens of her own decay.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Many a merry night had she danced with them in youth,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and now in joyless age she felt that some withered partner should request her hand and all unite in a dance of death to the music of the funeral-bell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">While these aged mourners were passing up the aisle it was observed that from pew to pew the spectators shuddered with irrepressible awe as some object hitherto concealed by the intervening figures came full in sight.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Many turned away their faces;</span>
   <span id="f000228">others kept a fixed and rigid stare,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and a young girl giggled hysterically and fainted with the laughter on her lips.</span>
   <span id="f000230">When the spectral procession approached the altar,</span>
   <span id="f000231">each couple separated and slowly diverged,</span>
   <span id="f000232">till in the centre appeared a form that had been worthily ushered in with all this gloomy pomp,</span>
   <span id="f000233">the death-knell and the funeral.</span>
   <span id="f000234">It was the bridegroom in his shroud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">No garb but that of the grave could have befitted such a death-like aspect.</span>
   <span id="f000236">The eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000237">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000238">had the wild gleam of a sepulchral lamp;</span>
   <span id="f000239">all else was fixed in the stern calmness which old men wear in the coffin.</span>
   <span id="f000240">The corpse stood motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000241">but addressed the widow in accents that seemed to melt into the clang of the bell,</span>
   <span id="f000242">which fell heavily on the air while he spoke.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“Come,</span>
   <span id="f000244">my bride!” said those pale lips.</span>
   <span id="f000245">“The hearse is ready;</span>
   <span id="f000246">the sexton stands waiting for us at the door of the tomb.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Let us be married,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and then to our coffins!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">How shall the widow’s horror be represented?</span>
   <span id="f000250">It gave her the ghastliness of a dead man’s bride.</span>
   <span id="f000251">Her youthful friends stood apart,</span>
   <span id="f000252">shuddering at the mourners,</span>
   <span id="f000253">the shrouded bridegroom and herself;</span>
   <span id="f000254">the whole scene expressed by the strongest imagery the vain struggle of the gilded vanities of this world when opposed to age,</span>
   <span id="f000255">infirmity,</span>
   <span id="f000256">sorrow and death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">The awestruck silence was first broken by the clergyman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“Mr.&#160;Ellenwood,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000259">soothingly,</span>
   <span id="f000260">yet with somewhat of authority,</span>
   <span id="f000261">“you are not well.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Your mind has been agitated by the unusual circumstances in which you are placed.</span>
   <span id="f000263">The ceremony must be deferred.</span>
   <span id="f000264">As an old friend,</span>
   <span id="f000265">let me entreat you to return home.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“Home – yes;</span>
   <span id="f000267">but not without my bride,” answered he,</span>
   <span id="f000268">in the same hollow accents.</span>
   <span id="f000269">“You deem this mockery – perhaps madness.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Had I bedizened my aged and broken frame with scarlet and embroidery,</span>
   <span id="f000271">had I forced my withered lips to smile at my dead heart,</span>
   <span id="f000272">that might have been mockery or madness;</span>
   <span id="f000273">but now let young and old declare which of us has come hither without a wedding-garment – the bridegroom or the bride.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">He stepped forward at a ghostly pace and stood beside the widow,</span>
   <span id="f000275">contrasting the awful simplicity of his shroud with the glare and glitter in which she had arrayed herself for this unhappy scene.</span>
   <span id="f000276">None that beheld them could deny the terrible strength of the moral which his disordered intellect had contrived to draw.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">“Cruel!</span>
   <span id="f000278">cruel!” groaned the heartstricken bride.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">“Cruel?” repeated he;</span>
   <span id="f000280">then,</span>
   <span id="f000281">losing his deathlike composure in a wild bitterness,</span>
   <span id="f000282">“Heaven judge which of us has been cruel to the other!</span>
   <span id="f000283">In youth you deprived me of my happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000284">my hopes,</span>
   <span id="f000285">my aims;</span>
   <span id="f000286">you took away all the substance of my life and made it a dream without reality enough even to grieve at – with only a pervading gloom,</span>
   <span id="f000287">through which I walked wearily and cared not whither.</span>
   <span id="f000288">But after forty years,</span>
   <span id="f000289">when I have built my tomb and would not give up the thought of resting there – no,</span>
   <span id="f000290">not for such a life as we once pictured – you call me to the altar.</span>
   <span id="f000291">At your summons I am here.</span>
   <span id="f000292">But other husbands have enjoyed your youth,</span>
   <span id="f000293">your beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000294">your warmth of heart and all that could be termed your life.</span>
   <span id="f000295">What is there for me but your decay and death?</span>
   <span id="f000296">And therefore I have bidden these funeral-friends,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and bespoken the sexton’s deepest knell,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and am come in my shroud to wed you as with a burial-service,</span>
   <span id="f000299">that we may join our hands at the door of the sepulchre and enter it together.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">It was not frenzy,</span>
   <span id="f000301">it was not merely the drunkenness of strong emotion in a heart unused to it,</span>
   <span id="f000302">that now wrought upon the bride.</span>
   <span id="f000303">The stern lesson of the day had done its work;</span>
   <span id="f000304">her worldliness was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000305">She seized the bridegroom’s hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“Yes!” cried she;</span>
   <span id="f000307">“let us wed even at the door of the sepulchre.</span>
   <span id="f000308">My life is gone in vanity and emptiness,</span>
   <span id="f000309">but at its close there is one true feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000310">It has made me what I was in youth:</span>
   <span id="f000311">it makes me worthy of you.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Time is no more for both of us.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Let us wed for eternity.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">With a long and deep regard the bridegroom looked into her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000315">while a tear was gathering in his own.</span>
   <span id="f000316">How strange that gush of human feeling from the frozen bosom of a corpse!</span>
   <span id="f000317">He wiped away the tear,</span>
   <span id="f000318">even with his shroud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“Beloved of my youth,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000320">“I have been wild.</span>
   <span id="f000321">The despair of my whole lifetime had returned at once and maddened me.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Forgive and be forgiven.</span>
   <span id="f000323">Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000324">it is evening with us now,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and we have realized none of our morning dreams of happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000326">But let us join our hands before the altar as lovers whom adverse circumstances have separated through life,</span>
   <span id="f000327">yet who meet again as they are leaving it and find their earthly affection changed into something holy as religion.</span>
   <span id="f000328">And what is time to the married of eternity?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">Amid the tears of many and a swell of exalted sentiment in those who felt aright was solemnized the union of two immortal souls.</span>
   <span id="f000330">The train of withered mourners,</span>
   <span id="f000331">the hoary bridegroom in his shroud,</span>
   <span id="f000332">the pale features of the aged bride and the death-bell tolling through the whole till its deep voice overpowered the marriage-words,</span>
   <span id="f000333">– all marked the funeral of earthly hopes.</span>
   <span id="f000334">But as the ceremony proceeded,</span>
   <span id="f000335">the organ,</span>
   <span id="f000336">as if stirred by the sympathies of this impressive scene,</span>
   <span id="f000337">poured forth an anthem,</span>
   <span id="f000338">first mingling with the dismal knell,</span>
   <span id="f000339">then rising to a loftier strain,</span>
   <span id="f000340">till the soul looked down upon its woe.</span>
   <span id="f000341">And when the awful rite was finished and with cold hand in cold hand the married of eternity withdrew,</span>
   <span id="f000342">the organ’s peal of solemn triumph drowned the wedding-knell.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

