<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Elizabeth Klett</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Verdict</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edith Wharton</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">I had always thought Jack Gisburn rather a cheap genius – though a good fellow enough – so it was no great surprise to me to hear that,</span>
   <span id="f000008">in the height of his glory,</span>
   <span id="f000009">he had dropped his painting,</span>
   <span id="f000010">married a rich widow,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and established himself in a villa on the Riviera.</span>
   <span id="f000012">(Though I rather thought it would have been Rome or Florence.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">“The height of his glory” – that was what the women called it.</span>
   <span id="f000014">I can hear Mrs.&#160;Gideon Thwing – his last Chicago sitter – deploring his unaccountable abdication.</span>
   <span id="f000015">“Of course it’s going to send the value of my picture ’way up;</span>
   <span id="f000016">but I don’t think of that,</span>
   <span id="f000017">Mr.&#160;Rickham – the loss to Arrt is all I think of.” The word,</span>
   <span id="f000018">on Mrs.&#160;Thwing’s lips,</span>
   <span id="f000019">multiplied its <em>rs</em> as though they were reflected in an endless vista of mirrors.</span>
   <span id="f000020">And it was not only the Mrs.&#160;Thwings who mourned.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Had not the exquisite Hermia Croft,</span>
   <span id="f000022">at the last Grafton Gallery show,</span>
   <span id="f000023">stopped me before Gisburn’s “Moon-dancers” to say,</span>
   <span id="f000024">with tears in her eyes:</span>
   <span id="f000025">“We shall not look upon its like again”?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">Well!</span>
   <span id="f000027">– even through the prism of Hermia’s tears I felt able to face the fact with equanimity.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Poor Jack Gisburn!</span>
   <span id="f000029">The women had made him – it was fitting that they should mourn him.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Among his own sex fewer regrets were heard,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and in his own trade hardly a murmur.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Professional jealousy?</span>
   <span id="f000033">Perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000034">If it were,</span>
   <span id="f000035">the honour of the craft was vindicated by little Claude Nutley,</span>
   <span id="f000036">who,</span>
   <span id="f000037">in all good faith,</span>
   <span id="f000038">brought out in the Burlington a very handsome “obituary” on Jack – one of those showy articles stocked with random technicalities that I have heard</span>
   <span id="f000039">(I won’t say by whom)</span>
   <span id="f000040">compared to Gisburn’s painting.</span>
   <span id="f000041">And so – his resolve being apparently irrevocable – the discussion gradually died out,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and,</span>
   <span id="f000043">as Mrs.&#160;Thwing had predicted,</span>
   <span id="f000044">the price of “Gisburns” went up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">It was not till three years later that,</span>
   <span id="f000046">in the course of a few weeks’ idling on the Riviera,</span>
   <span id="f000047">it suddenly occurred to me to wonder why Gisburn had given up his painting.</span>
   <span id="f000048">On reflection,</span>
   <span id="f000049">it really was a tempting problem.</span>
   <span id="f000050">To accuse his wife would have been too easy – his fair sitters had been denied the solace of saying that Mrs.&#160;Gisburn had “dragged him down.” For Mrs.&#160;Gisburn – as such – had not existed till nearly a year after Jack’s resolve had been taken.</span>
   <span id="f000051">It might be that he had married her – since he liked his ease – because he didn’t want to go on painting;</span>
   <span id="f000052">but it would have been hard to prove that he had given up his painting because he had married her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000054">if she had not dragged him down,</span>
   <span id="f000055">she had equally,</span>
   <span id="f000056">as Miss Croft contended,</span>
   <span id="f000057">failed to “lift him up” – she had not led him back to the easel.</span>
   <span id="f000058">To put the brush into his hand again – what a vocation for a wife!</span>
   <span id="f000059">But Mrs.&#160;Gisburn appeared to have disdained it – and I felt it might be interesting to find out why.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">The desultory life of the Riviera lends itself to such purely academic speculations;</span>
   <span id="f000061">and having,</span>
   <span id="f000062">on my way to Monte Carlo,</span>
   <span id="f000063">caught a glimpse of Jack’s balustraded terraces between the pines,</span>
   <span id="f000064">I had myself borne thither the next day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">I found the couple at tea beneath their palm-trees;</span>
   <span id="f000066">and Mrs.&#160;Gisburn’s welcome was so genial that,</span>
   <span id="f000067">in the ensuing weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000068">I claimed it frequently.</span>
   <span id="f000069">It was not that my hostess was “interesting”:</span>
   <span id="f000070">on that point I could have given Miss Croft the fullest reassurance.</span>
   <span id="f000071">It was just because she was <em>not</em> interesting – if I may be pardoned the bull – that I found her so.</span>
   <span id="f000072">For Jack,</span>
   <span id="f000073">all his life,</span>
   <span id="f000074">had been surrounded by interesting women:</span>
   <span id="f000075">they had fostered his art,</span>
   <span id="f000076">it had been reared in the hot-house of their adulation.</span>
   <span id="f000077">And it was therefore instructive to note what effect the “deadening atmosphere of mediocrity”</span>
   <span id="f000078">(I quote Miss Croft)</span>
   <span id="f000079">was having on him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">I have mentioned that Mrs.&#160;Gisburn was rich;</span>
   <span id="f000081">and it was immediately perceptible that her husband was extracting from this circumstance a delicate but substantial satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000082">It is,</span>
   <span id="f000083">as a rule,</span>
   <span id="f000084">the people who scorn money who get most out of it;</span>
   <span id="f000085">and Jack’s elegant disdain of his wife’s big balance enabled him,</span>
   <span id="f000086">with an appearance of perfect good-breeding,</span>
   <span id="f000087">to transmute it into objects of art and luxury.</span>
   <span id="f000088">To the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000089">I must add,</span>
   <span id="f000090">he remained relatively indifferent;</span>
   <span id="f000091">but he was buying Renaissance bronzes and eighteenth-century pictures with a discrimination that bespoke the amplest resources.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Money’s only excuse is to put beauty into circulation,” was one of the axioms he laid down across the Sevres and silver of an exquisitely appointed luncheon-table,</span>
   <span id="f000093">when,</span>
   <span id="f000094">on a later day,</span>
   <span id="f000095">I had again run over from Monte Carlo;</span>
   <span id="f000096">and Mrs.&#160;Gisburn,</span>
   <span id="f000097">beaming on him,</span>
   <span id="f000098">added for my enlightenment:</span>
   <span id="f000099">“Jack is so morbidly sensitive to every form of beauty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">Poor Jack!</span>
   <span id="f000101">It had always been his fate to have women say such things of him:</span>
   <span id="f000102">the fact should be set down in extenuation.</span>
   <span id="f000103">What struck me now was that,</span>
   <span id="f000104">for the first time,</span>
   <span id="f000105">he resented the tone.</span>
   <span id="f000106">I had seen him,</span>
   <span id="f000107">so often,</span>
   <span id="f000108">basking under similar tributes – was it the conjugal note that robbed them of their savour?</span>
   <span id="f000109">No – for,</span>
   <span id="f000110">oddly enough,</span>
   <span id="f000111">it became apparent that he was fond of Mrs.&#160;Gisburn – fond enough not to see her absurdity.</span>
   <span id="f000112">It was his own absurdity he seemed to be wincing under – his own attitude as an object for garlands and incense.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“My dear,</span>
   <span id="f000114">since I’ve chucked painting people don’t say that stuff about me – they say it about Victor Grindle,” was his only protest,</span>
   <span id="f000115">as he rose from the table and strolled out onto the sunlit terrace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">I glanced after him,</span>
   <span id="f000117">struck by his last word.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Victor Grindle was,</span>
   <span id="f000119">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000120">becoming the man of the moment – as Jack himself,</span>
   <span id="f000121">one might put it,</span>
   <span id="f000122">had been the man of the hour.</span>
   <span id="f000123">The younger artist was said to have formed himself at my friend’s feet,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and I wondered if a tinge of jealousy underlay the latter’s mysterious abdication.</span>
   <span id="f000125">But no – for it was not till after that event that the <em>rose Dubarry</em> drawing-rooms had begun to display their “Grindles.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">I turned to Mrs.&#160;Gisburn,</span>
   <span id="f000127">who had lingered to give a lump of sugar to her spaniel in the dining-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“Why <em>has</em> he chucked painting?” I asked abruptly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">She raised her eyebrows with a hint of good-humoured surprise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000131">he doesn’t <em>have</em> to now,</span>
   <span id="f000132">you know;</span>
   <span id="f000133">and I want him to enjoy himself,” she said quite simply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">I looked about the spacious white-panelled room,</span>
   <span id="f000135">with its <em>famille-verte</em> vases repeating the tones of the pale damask curtains,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and its eighteenth-century pastels in delicate faded frames.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“Has he chucked his pictures too?</span>
   <span id="f000138">I haven’t seen a single one in the house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">A slight shade of constraint crossed Mrs.&#160;Gisburn’s open countenance.</span>
   <span id="f000140">“It’s his ridiculous modesty,</span>
   <span id="f000141">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000142">He says they’re not fit to have about;</span>
   <span id="f000143">he’s sent them all away except one – my portrait – and that I have to keep upstairs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">His ridiculous modesty – Jack’s modesty about his pictures?</span>
   <span id="f000145">My curiosity was growing like the bean-stalk.</span>
   <span id="f000146">I said persuasively to my hostess:</span>
   <span id="f000147">“I must really see your portrait,</span>
   <span id="f000148">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">She glanced out almost timorously at the terrace where her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000150">lounging in a hooded chair,</span>
   <span id="f000151">had lit a cigar and drawn the Russian deerhound’s head between his knees.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000153">come while he’s not looking,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000154">with a laugh that tried to hide her nervousness;</span>
   <span id="f000155">and I followed her between the marble Emperors of the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and up the wide stairs with terra-cotta nymphs poised among flowers at each landing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">In the dimmest corner of her boudoir,</span>
   <span id="f000158">amid a profusion of delicate and distinguished objects,</span>
   <span id="f000159">hung one of the familiar oval canvases,</span>
   <span id="f000160">in the inevitable garlanded frame.</span>
   <span id="f000161">The mere outline of the frame called up all Gisburn’s past!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">Mrs.&#160;Gisburn drew back the window-curtains,</span>
   <span id="f000163">moved aside a <em>jardiniere</em> full of pink azaleas,</span>
   <span id="f000164">pushed an arm-chair away,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000166">“If you stand here you can just manage to see it.</span>
   <span id="f000167">I had it over the mantel-piece,</span>
   <span id="f000168">but he wouldn’t let it stay.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">Yes – I could just manage to see it – the first portrait of Jack’s I had ever had to strain my eyes over!</span>
   <span id="f000170">Usually they had the place of honour – say the central panel in a pale yellow or <em>rose Dubarry</em> drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000171">or a monumental easel placed so that it took the light through curtains of old Venetian point.</span>
   <span id="f000172">The more modest place became the picture better;</span>
   <span id="f000173">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000174">as my eyes grew accustomed to the half-light,</span>
   <span id="f000175">all the characteristic qualities came out – all the hesitations disguised as audacities,</span>
   <span id="f000176">the tricks of prestidigitation by which,</span>
   <span id="f000177">with such consummate skill,</span>
   <span id="f000178">he managed to divert attention from the real business of the picture to some pretty irrelevance of detail.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Mrs.&#160;Gisburn,</span>
   <span id="f000180">presenting a neutral surface to work on – forming,</span>
   <span id="f000181">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000182">so inevitably the background of her own picture – had lent herself in an unusual degree to the display of this false virtuosity.</span>
   <span id="f000183">The picture was one of Jack’s “strongest,” as his admirers would have put it – it represented,</span>
   <span id="f000184">on his part,</span>
   <span id="f000185">a swelling of muscles,</span>
   <span id="f000186">a congesting of veins,</span>
   <span id="f000187">a balancing,</span>
   <span id="f000188">straddling and straining,</span>
   <span id="f000189">that reminded one of the circus-clown’s ironic efforts to lift a feather.</span>
   <span id="f000190">It met,</span>
   <span id="f000191">in short,</span>
   <span id="f000192">at every point the demand of lovely woman to be painted “strongly” because she was tired of being painted “sweetly” – and yet not to lose an atom of the sweetness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“It’s the last he painted,</span>
   <span id="f000194">you know,” Mrs.&#160;Gisburn said with pardonable pride.</span>
   <span id="f000195">“The last but one,” she corrected herself – “but the other doesn’t count,</span>
   <span id="f000196">because he destroyed it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“Destroyed it?” I was about to follow up this clue when I heard a footstep and saw Jack himself on the threshold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">As he stood there,</span>
   <span id="f000199">his hands in the pockets of his velveteen coat,</span>
   <span id="f000200">the thin brown waves of hair pushed back from his white forehead,</span>
   <span id="f000201">his lean sunburnt cheeks furrowed by a smile that lifted the tips of a self-confident moustache,</span>
   <span id="f000202">I felt to what a degree he had the same quality as his pictures – the quality of looking cleverer than he was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">His wife glanced at him deprecatingly,</span>
   <span id="f000204">but his eyes travelled past her to the portrait.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“Mr.&#160;Rickham wanted to see it,” she began,</span>
   <span id="f000206">as if excusing herself.</span>
   <span id="f000207">He shrugged his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000208">still smiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000210">Rickham found me out long ago,” he said lightly;</span>
   <span id="f000211">then,</span>
   <span id="f000212">passing his arm through mine:</span>
   <span id="f000213">“Come and see the rest of the house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">He showed it to me with a kind of naive suburban pride:</span>
   <span id="f000215">the bath-rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000216">the speaking-tubes,</span>
   <span id="f000217">the dress-closets,</span>
   <span id="f000218">the trouser-presses – all the complex simplifications of the millionaire’s domestic economy.</span>
   <span id="f000219">And whenever my wonder paid the expected tribute he said,</span>
   <span id="f000220">throwing out his chest a little:</span>
   <span id="f000221">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000222">I really don’t see how people manage to live without that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">Well – it was just the end one might have foreseen for him.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Only he was,</span>
   <span id="f000225">through it all and in spite of it all – as he had been through,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and in spite of,</span>
   <span id="f000227">his pictures – so handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000228">so charming,</span>
   <span id="f000229">so disarming,</span>
   <span id="f000230">that one longed to cry out:</span>
   <span id="f000231">“Be dissatisfied with your leisure!” as once one had longed to say:</span>
   <span id="f000232">“Be dissatisfied with your work!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">But,</span>
   <span id="f000234">with the cry on my lips,</span>
   <span id="f000235">my diagnosis suffered an unexpected check.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“This is my own lair,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000237">leading me into a dark plain room at the end of the florid vista.</span>
   <span id="f000238">It was square and brown and leathery:</span>
   <span id="f000239">no “effects”;</span>
   <span id="f000240">no bric-a-brac,</span>
   <span id="f000241">none of the air of posing for reproduction in a picture weekly – above all,</span>
   <span id="f000242">no least sign of ever having been used as a studio.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">The fact brought home to me the absolute finality of Jack’s break with his old life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“Don’t you ever dabble with paint any more?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000245">still looking about for a trace of such activity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“Never,” he said briefly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“Or water-colour – or etching?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">His confident eyes grew dim,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and his cheeks paled a little under their handsome sunburn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">“Never think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000251">my dear fellow – any more than if I’d never touched a brush.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">And his tone told me in a flash that he never thought of anything else.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">I moved away,</span>
   <span id="f000254">instinctively embarrassed by my unexpected discovery;</span>
   <span id="f000255">and as I turned,</span>
   <span id="f000256">my eye fell on a small picture above the mantel-piece – the only object breaking the plain oak panelling of the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000258">by Jove!” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">It was a sketch of a donkey – an old tired donkey,</span>
   <span id="f000260">standing in the rain under a wall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“By Jove – a Stroud!” I cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">He was silent;</span>
   <span id="f000263">but I felt him close behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000264">breathing a little quickly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“What a wonder!</span>
   <span id="f000266">Made with a dozen lines – but on everlasting foundations.</span>
   <span id="f000267">You lucky chap,</span>
   <span id="f000268">where did you get it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">He answered slowly:</span>
   <span id="f000270">“Mrs.&#160;Stroud gave it to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“Ah – I didn’t know you even knew the Strouds.</span>
   <span id="f000272">He was such an inflexible hermit.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“I didn’t – till after…</span>
   <span id="f000274">.</span>
   <span id="f000275">She sent for me to paint him when he was dead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">“When he was dead?</span>
   <span id="f000277">You?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">I must have let a little too much amazement escape through my surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000279">for he answered with a deprecating laugh:</span>
   <span id="f000280">“Yes – she’s an awful simpleton,</span>
   <span id="f000281">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Mrs.&#160;Stroud.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Her only idea was to have him done by a fashionable painter – ah,</span>
   <span id="f000284">poor Stroud!</span>
   <span id="f000285">She thought it the surest way of proclaiming his greatness – of forcing it on a purblind public.</span>
   <span id="f000286">And at the moment I was <em>the</em> fashionable painter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000288">poor Stroud – as you say.</span>
   <span id="f000289">Was <em>that</em> his history?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“That was his history.</span>
   <span id="f000291">She believed in him,</span>
   <span id="f000292">gloried in him – or thought she did.</span>
   <span id="f000293">But she couldn’t bear not to have all the drawing-rooms with her.</span>
   <span id="f000294">She couldn’t bear the fact that,</span>
   <span id="f000295">on varnishing days,</span>
   <span id="f000296">one could always get near enough to see his pictures.</span>
   <span id="f000297">Poor woman!</span>
   <span id="f000298">She’s just a fragment groping for other fragments.</span>
   <span id="f000299">Stroud is the only whole I ever knew.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“You ever knew?</span>
   <span id="f000301">But you just said – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">Gisburn had a curious smile in his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000304">I knew him,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and he knew me – only it happened after he was dead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">I dropped my voice instinctively.</span>
   <span id="f000307">“When she sent for you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Yes – quite insensible to the irony.</span>
   <span id="f000309">She wanted him vindicated – and by me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000310">He laughed again,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and threw back his head to look up at the sketch of the donkey.</span>
   <span id="f000312">“There were days when I couldn’t look at that thing – couldn’t face it.</span>
   <span id="f000313">But I forced myself to put it here;</span>
   <span id="f000314">and now it’s cured me – cured me.</span>
   <span id="f000315">That’s the reason why I don’t dabble any more,</span>
   <span id="f000316">my dear Rickham;</span>
   <span id="f000317">or rather Stroud himself is the reason.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">For the first time my idle curiosity about my companion turned into a serious desire to understand him better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“I wish you’d tell me how it happened,” I said.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">He stood looking up at the sketch,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and twirling between his fingers a cigarette he had forgotten to light.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Suddenly he turned toward me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“I’d rather like to tell you – because I’ve always suspected you of loathing my work.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">I made a deprecating gesture,</span>
   <span id="f000325">which he negatived with a good-humoured shrug.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000327">I didn’t care a straw when I believed in myself – and now it’s an added tie between us!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">He laughed slightly,</span>
   <span id="f000329">without bitterness,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and pushed one of the deep arm-chairs forward.</span>
   <span id="f000331">“There:</span>
   <span id="f000332">make yourself comfortable – and here are the cigars you like.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">He placed them at my elbow and continued to wander up and down the room,</span>
   <span id="f000334">stopping now and then beneath the picture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">How it happened?</span>
   <span id="f000336">I can tell you in five minutes – and it didn’t take much longer to happen…</span>
   <span id="f000337">.</span>
   <span id="f000338">I can remember now how surprised and pleased I was when I got Mrs.&#160;Stroud’s note.</span>
   <span id="f000339">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000340">deep down,</span>
   <span id="f000341">I had always <em>felt</em> there was no one like him – only I had gone with the stream,</span>
   <span id="f000342">echoed the usual platitudes about him,</span>
   <span id="f000343">till I half got to think he was a failure,</span>
   <span id="f000344">one of the kind that are left behind.</span>
   <span id="f000345">By Jove,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and he <em>was</em> left behind – because he had come to stay!</span>
   <span id="f000347">The rest of us had to let ourselves be swept along or go under,</span>
   <span id="f000348">but he was high above the current – on everlasting foundations,</span>
   <span id="f000349">as you say.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000351">I went off to the house in my most egregious mood – rather moved,</span>
   <span id="f000352">Lord forgive me,</span>
   <span id="f000353">at the pathos of poor Stroud’s career of failure being crowned by the glory of my painting him!</span>
   <span id="f000354">Of course I meant to do the picture for nothing – I told Mrs.&#160;Stroud so when she began to stammer something about her poverty.</span>
   <span id="f000355">I remember getting off a prodigious phrase about the honour being <em>mine</em> – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000356">I was princely,</span>
   <span id="f000357">my dear Rickham!</span>
   <span id="f000358">I was posing to myself like one of my own sitters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">Then I was taken up and left alone with him.</span>
   <span id="f000360">I had sent all my traps in advance,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and I had only to set up the easel and get to work.</span>
   <span id="f000362">He had been dead only twenty-four hours,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and he died suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000364">of heart disease,</span>
   <span id="f000365">so that there had been no preliminary work of destruction – his face was clear and untouched.</span>
   <span id="f000366">I had met him once or twice,</span>
   <span id="f000367">years before,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and thought him insignificant and dingy.</span>
   <span id="f000369">Now I saw that he was superb.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">I was glad at first,</span>
   <span id="f000371">with a merely aesthetic satisfaction:</span>
   <span id="f000372">glad to have my hand on such a ’subject.’ Then his strange life-likeness began to affect me queerly – as I blocked the head in I felt as if he were watching me do it.</span>
   <span id="f000373">The sensation was followed by the thought:</span>
   <span id="f000374">if he <em>were</em> watching me,</span>
   <span id="f000375">what would he say to my way of working?</span>
   <span id="f000376">My strokes began to go a little wild – I felt nervous and uncertain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000378">when I looked up,</span>
   <span id="f000379">I seemed to see a smile behind his close grayish beard – as if he had the secret,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and were amusing himself by holding it back from me.</span>
   <span id="f000381">That exasperated me still more.</span>
   <span id="f000382">The secret?</span>
   <span id="f000383">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000384">I had a secret worth twenty of his!</span>
   <span id="f000385">I dashed at the canvas furiously,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and tried some of my bravura tricks.</span>
   <span id="f000387">But they failed me,</span>
   <span id="f000388">they crumbled.</span>
   <span id="f000389">I saw that he wasn’t watching the showy bits – I couldn’t distract his attention;</span>
   <span id="f000390">he just kept his eyes on the hard passages between.</span>
   <span id="f000391">Those were the ones I had always shirked,</span>
   <span id="f000392">or covered up with some lying paint.</span>
   <span id="f000393">And how he saw through my lies!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">I looked up again,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and caught sight of that sketch of the donkey hanging on the wall near his bed.</span>
   <span id="f000396">His wife told me afterward it was the last thing he had done – just a note taken with a shaking hand,</span>
   <span id="f000397">when he was down in Devonshire recovering from a previous heart attack.</span>
   <span id="f000398">Just a note!</span>
   <span id="f000399">But it tells his whole history.</span>
   <span id="f000400">There are years of patient scornful persistence in every line.</span>
   <span id="f000401">A man who had swum with the current could never have learned that mighty up-stream stroke…</span>
   <span id="f000402">.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">I turned back to my work,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and went on groping and muddling;</span>
   <span id="f000405">then I looked at the donkey again.</span>
   <span id="f000406">I saw that,</span>
   <span id="f000407">when Stroud laid in the first stroke,</span>
   <span id="f000408">he knew just what the end would be.</span>
   <span id="f000409">He had possessed his subject,</span>
   <span id="f000410">absorbed it,</span>
   <span id="f000411">recreated it.</span>
   <span id="f000412">When had I done that with any of my things?</span>
   <span id="f000413">They hadn’t been born of me – I had just adopted them…</span>
   <span id="f000414">.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">Hang it,</span>
   <span id="f000416">Rickham,</span>
   <span id="f000417">with that face watching me I couldn’t do another stroke.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The plain truth was,</span>
   <span id="f000419">I didn’t know where to put it – <em>I had never known</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000420">Only,</span>
   <span id="f000421">with my sitters and my public,</span>
   <span id="f000422">a showy splash of colour covered up the fact – I just threw paint into their faces…</span>
   <span id="f000423">.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000425">paint was the one medium those dead eyes could see through – see straight to the tottering foundations underneath.</span>
   <span id="f000426">Don’t you know how,</span>
   <span id="f000427">in talking a foreign language,</span>
   <span id="f000428">even fluently,</span>
   <span id="f000429">one says half the time not what one wants to but what one can?</span>
   <span id="f000430">Well – that was the way I painted;</span>
   <span id="f000431">and as he lay there and watched me,</span>
   <span id="f000432">the thing they called my ’technique’ collapsed like a house of cards.</span>
   <span id="f000433">He didn’t sneer,</span>
   <span id="f000434">you understand,</span>
   <span id="f000435">poor Stroud – he just lay there quietly watching,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and on his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000437">through the gray beard,</span>
   <span id="f000438">I seemed to hear the question:</span>
   <span id="f000439">’Are you sure you know where you’re coming out?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">If I could have painted that face,</span>
   <span id="f000441">with that question on it,</span>
   <span id="f000442">I should have done a great thing.</span>
   <span id="f000443">The next greatest thing was to see that I couldn’t – and that grace was given me.</span>
   <span id="f000444">But,</span>
   <span id="f000445">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000446">at that minute,</span>
   <span id="f000447">Rickham,</span>
   <span id="f000448">was there anything on earth I wouldn’t have given to have Stroud alive before me,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and to hear him say:</span>
   <span id="f000450">’It’s not too late – I’ll show you how’?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“It <em>was</em> too late – it would have been,</span>
   <span id="f000452">even if he’d been alive.</span>
   <span id="f000453">I packed up my traps,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and went down and told Mrs.&#160;Stroud.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Of course I didn’t tell her <em>that</em> – it would have been Greek to her.</span>
   <span id="f000456">I simply said I couldn’t paint him,</span>
   <span id="f000457">that I was too moved.</span>
   <span id="f000458">She rather liked the idea – she’s so romantic!</span>
   <span id="f000459">It was that that made her give me the donkey.</span>
   <span id="f000460">But she was terribly upset at not getting the portrait – she did so want him ’done’ by some one showy!</span>
   <span id="f000461">At first I was afraid she wouldn’t let me off – and at my wits’ end I suggested Grindle.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000463">it was I who started Grindle:</span>
   <span id="f000464">I told Mrs.&#160;Stroud he was the ’coming’ man,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and she told somebody else,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and so it got to be true…</span>
   <span id="f000467">.</span>
   <span id="f000468">And he painted Stroud without wincing;</span>
   <span id="f000469">and she hung the picture among her husband’s things…</span>
   <span id="f000470">.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">He flung himself down in the arm-chair near mine,</span>
   <span id="f000472">laid back his head,</span>
   <span id="f000473">and clasping his arms beneath it,</span>
   <span id="f000474">looked up at the picture above the chimney-piece.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“I like to fancy that Stroud himself would have given it to me,</span>
   <span id="f000476">if he’d been able to say what he thought that day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">And,</span>
   <span id="f000478">in answer to a question I put half-mechanically – “Begin again?” he flashed out.</span>
   <span id="f000479">“When the one thing that brings me anywhere near him is that I knew enough to leave off?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">He stood up and laid his hand on my shoulder with a laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000481">“Only the irony of it is that I <em>am</em> still painting – since Grindle’s doing it for me!</span>
   <span id="f000482">The Strouds stand alone,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and happen once – but there’s no exterminating our kind of art.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

