<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />John Greenman</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000004">Eve’s Diary<br />Translated from the Original</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000005">by<br />Mark Twain</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000006">SATURDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000007">– I am almost a whole day old,</span>
   <span id="f000008">now.</span>
   <span id="f000009">I arrived yesterday.</span>
   <span id="f000010">That is as it seems to me.</span>
   <span id="f000011">And it must be so,</span>
   <span id="f000012">for if there was a day-before-yesterday I was not there when it happened,</span>
   <span id="f000013">or I should remember it.</span>
   <span id="f000014">It could be,</span>
   <span id="f000015">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000016">that it did happen,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and that I was not noticing.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Very well;</span>
   <span id="f000019">I will be very watchful now,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and if any day-before-yesterdays happen I will make a note of it.</span>
   <span id="f000021">It will be best to start right and not let the record get confused,</span>
   <span id="f000022">for some instinct tells me that these details are going to be important to the historian some day.</span>
   <span id="f000023">For I feel like an experiment,</span>
   <span id="f000024">I feel exactly like an experiment;</span>
   <span id="f000025">it would be impossible for a person to feel more like an experiment than I do,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and so I am coming to feel convinced that that is what I AM – an experiment;</span>
   <span id="f000027">just an experiment,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and nothing more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">Then if I am an experiment,</span>
   <span id="f000030">am I the whole of it?</span>
   <span id="f000031">No,</span>
   <span id="f000032">I think not;</span>
   <span id="f000033">I think the rest of it is part of it.</span>
   <span id="f000034">I am the main part of it,</span>
   <span id="f000035">but I think the rest of it has its share in the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000036">Is my position assured,</span>
   <span id="f000037">or do I have to watch it and take care of it?</span>
   <span id="f000038">The latter,</span>
   <span id="f000039">perhaps.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Some instinct tells me that eternal vigilance is the price of supremacy.</span>
   <span id="f000041">[That is a good phrase,</span>
   <span id="f000042">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000043">for one so young.]</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">Everything looks better today than it did yesterday.</span>
   <span id="f000045">In the rush of finishing up yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000046">the mountains were left in a ragged condition,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and some of the plains were so cluttered with rubbish and remnants that the aspects were quite distressing.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Noble and beautiful works of art should not be subjected to haste;</span>
   <span id="f000049">and this majestic new world is indeed a most noble and beautiful work.</span>
   <span id="f000050">And certainly marvelously near to being perfect,</span>
   <span id="f000051">notwithstanding the shortness of the time.</span>
   <span id="f000052">There are too many stars in some places and not enough in others,</span>
   <span id="f000053">but that can be remedied presently,</span>
   <span id="f000054">no doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000055">The moon got loose last night,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and slid down and fell out of the scheme – a very great loss;</span>
   <span id="f000057">it breaks my heart to think of it.</span>
   <span id="f000058">There isn’t another thing among the ornaments and decorations that is comparable to it for beauty and finish.</span>
   <span id="f000059">It should have been fastened better.</span>
   <span id="f000060">If we can only get it back again –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">But of course there is no telling where it went to.</span>
   <span id="f000062">And besides,</span>
   <span id="f000063">whoever gets it will hide it;</span>
   <span id="f000064">I know it because I would do it myself.</span>
   <span id="f000065">I believe I can be honest in all other matters,</span>
   <span id="f000066">but I already begin to realize that the core and center of my nature is love of the beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000067">a passion for the beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and that it would not be safe to trust me with a moon that belonged to another person and that person didn’t know I had it.</span>
   <span id="f000069">I could give up a moon that I found in the daytime,</span>
   <span id="f000070">because I should be afraid some one was looking;</span>
   <span id="f000071">but if I found it in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000072">I am sure I should find some kind of an excuse for not saying anything about it.</span>
   <span id="f000073">For I do love moons,</span>
   <span id="f000074">they are so pretty and so romantic.</span>
   <span id="f000075">I wish we had five or six;</span>
   <span id="f000076">I would never go to bed;</span>
   <span id="f000077">I should never get tired lying on the moss-bank and looking up at them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">Stars are good,</span>
   <span id="f000079">too.</span>
   <span id="f000080">I wish I could get some to put in my hair.</span>
   <span id="f000081">But I suppose I never can.</span>
   <span id="f000082">You would be surprised to find how far off they are,</span>
   <span id="f000083">for they do not look it.</span>
   <span id="f000084">When they first showed,</span>
   <span id="f000085">last night,</span>
   <span id="f000086">I tried to knock some down with a pole,</span>
   <span id="f000087">but it didn’t reach,</span>
   <span id="f000088">which astonished me;</span>
   <span id="f000089">then I tried clods till I was all tired out,</span>
   <span id="f000090">but I never got one.</span>
   <span id="f000091">It was because I am left-handed and cannot throw good.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Even when I aimed at the one I wasn’t after I couldn’t hit the other one,</span>
   <span id="f000093">though I did make some close shots,</span>
   <span id="f000094">for I saw the black blot of the clod sail right into the midst of the golden clusters forty or fifty times,</span>
   <span id="f000095">just barely missing them,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and if I could have held out a little longer maybe I could have got one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">So I cried a little,</span>
   <span id="f000098">which was natural,</span>
   <span id="f000099">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000100">for one of my age,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and after I was rested I got a basket and started for a place on the extreme rim of the circle,</span>
   <span id="f000102">where the stars were close to the ground and I could get them with my hands,</span>
   <span id="f000103">which would be better,</span>
   <span id="f000104">anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000105">because I could gather them tenderly then,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and not break them.</span>
   <span id="f000107">But it was farther than I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and at last I had to give it up;</span>
   <span id="f000109">I was so tired I couldn’t drag my feet another step;</span>
   <span id="f000110">and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000111">they were sore and hurt me very much.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">I couldn’t get back home;</span>
   <span id="f000113">it was too far and turning cold;</span>
   <span id="f000114">but I found some tigers and nestled in among them and was most adorably comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and their breath was sweet and pleasant,</span>
   <span id="f000116">because they live on strawberries.</span>
   <span id="f000117">I had never seen a tiger before,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but I knew them in a minute by the stripes.</span>
   <span id="f000119">If I could have one of those skins,</span>
   <span id="f000120">it would make a lovely gown.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">Today I am getting better ideas about distances.</span>
   <span id="f000122">I was so eager to get hold of every pretty thing that I giddily grabbed for it,</span>
   <span id="f000123">sometimes when it was too far off,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and sometimes when it was but six inches away but seemed a foot – alas,</span>
   <span id="f000125">with thorns between!</span>
   <span id="f000126">I learned a lesson;</span>
   <span id="f000127">also I made an axiom,</span>
   <span id="f000128">all out of my own head – my very first one;</span>
   <span id="f000129">THE SCRATCHED EXPERIMENT SHUNS THE THORN.</span>
   <span id="f000130">I think it is a very good one for one so young.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">I followed the other Experiment around,</span>
   <span id="f000132">yesterday afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000133">at a distance,</span>
   <span id="f000134">to see what it might be for,</span>
   <span id="f000135">if I could.</span>
   <span id="f000136">But I was not able to make [it] out.</span>
   <span id="f000137">I think it is a man.</span>
   <span id="f000138">I had never seen a man,</span>
   <span id="f000139">but it looked like one,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and I feel sure that that is what it is.</span>
   <span id="f000141">I realize that I feel more curiosity about it than about any of the other reptiles.</span>
   <span id="f000142">If it is a reptile,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and I suppose it is;</span>
   <span id="f000144">for it has frowzy hair and blue eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and looks like a reptile.</span>
   <span id="f000146">It has no hips;</span>
   <span id="f000147">it tapers like a carrot;</span>
   <span id="f000148">when it stands,</span>
   <span id="f000149">it spreads itself apart like a derrick;</span>
   <span id="f000150">so I think it is a reptile,</span>
   <span id="f000151">though it may be architecture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">I was afraid of it at first,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and started to run every time it turned around,</span>
   <span id="f000154">for I thought it was going to chase me;</span>
   <span id="f000155">but by and by I found it was only trying to get away,</span>
   <span id="f000156">so after that I was not timid any more,</span>
   <span id="f000157">but tracked it along,</span>
   <span id="f000158">several hours,</span>
   <span id="f000159">about twenty yards behind,</span>
   <span id="f000160">which made it nervous and unhappy.</span>
   <span id="f000161">At last it was a good deal worried,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and climbed a tree.</span>
   <span id="f000163">I waited a good while,</span>
   <span id="f000164">then gave it up and went home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">Today the same thing over.</span>
   <span id="f000166">I’ve got it up the tree again.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000167">SUNDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000168">– It is up there yet.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Resting,</span>
   <span id="f000170">apparently.</span>
   <span id="f000171">But that is a subterfuge:</span>
   <span id="f000172">Sunday isn’t the day of rest;</span>
   <span id="f000173">Saturday is appointed for that.</span>
   <span id="f000174">It looks to me like a creature that is more interested in resting than in anything else.</span>
   <span id="f000175">It would tire me to rest so much.</span>
   <span id="f000176">It tires me just to sit around and watch the tree.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I do wonder what it is for;</span>
   <span id="f000178">I never see it do anything.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">They returned the moon last night,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and I was SO happy!</span>
   <span id="f000181">I think it is very honest of them.</span>
   <span id="f000182">It slid down and fell off again,</span>
   <span id="f000183">but I was not distressed;</span>
   <span id="f000184">there is no need to worry when one has that kind of neighbors;</span>
   <span id="f000185">they will fetch it back.</span>
   <span id="f000186">I wish I could do something to show my appreciation.</span>
   <span id="f000187">I would like to send them some stars,</span>
   <span id="f000188">for we have more than we can use.</span>
   <span id="f000189">I mean I,</span>
   <span id="f000190">not we,</span>
   <span id="f000191">for I can see that the reptile cares nothing for such things.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">It has low tastes,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and is not kind.</span>
   <span id="f000194">When I went there yesterday evening in the gloaming it had crept down and was trying to catch the little speckled fishes that play in the pool,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and I had to clod it to make it go up the tree again and let them alone.</span>
   <span id="f000196">I wonder if THAT is what it is for?</span>
   <span id="f000197">Hasn’t it any heart?</span>
   <span id="f000198">Hasn’t it any compassion for those little creature?</span>
   <span id="f000199">Can it be that it was designed and manufactured for such ungentle work?</span>
   <span id="f000200">It has the look of it.</span>
   <span id="f000201">One of the clods took it back of the ear,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and it used language.</span>
   <span id="f000203">It gave me a thrill,</span>
   <span id="f000204">for it was the first time I had ever heard speech,</span>
   <span id="f000205">except my own.</span>
   <span id="f000206">I did not understand the words,</span>
   <span id="f000207">but they seemed expressive.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">When I found it could talk I felt a new interest in it,</span>
   <span id="f000209">for I love to talk;</span>
   <span id="f000210">I talk,</span>
   <span id="f000211">all day,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and in my sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000213">too,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and I am very interesting,</span>
   <span id="f000215">but if I had another to talk to I could be twice as interesting,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and would never stop,</span>
   <span id="f000217">if desired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">If this reptile is a man,</span>
   <span id="f000219">it isn’t an IT,</span>
   <span id="f000220">is it?</span>
   <span id="f000221">That wouldn’t be grammatical,</span>
   <span id="f000222">would it?</span>
   <span id="f000223">I think it would be HE.</span>
   <span id="f000224">I think so.</span>
   <span id="f000225">In that case one would parse it thus:</span>
   <span id="f000226">nominative,</span>
   <span id="f000227">HE;</span>
   <span id="f000228">dative,</span>
   <span id="f000229">HIM;</span>
   <span id="f000230">possessive,</span>
   <span id="f000231">HIS’N.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000233">I will consider it a man and call it he until it turns out to be something else.</span>
   <span id="f000234">This will be handier than having so many uncertainties.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000235">NEXT WEEK SUNDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000236">– All the week I tagged around after him and tried to get acquainted.</span>
   <span id="f000237">I had to do the talking,</span>
   <span id="f000238">because he was shy,</span>
   <span id="f000239">but I didn’t mind it.</span>
   <span id="f000240">He seemed pleased to have me around,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and I used the sociable “we” a good deal,</span>
   <span id="f000242">because it seemed to flatter him to be included.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000243">WEDNESDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000244">– We are getting along very well indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000245">now,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and getting better and better acquainted.</span>
   <span id="f000247">He does not try to avoid me any more,</span>
   <span id="f000248">which is a good sign,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and shows that he likes to have me with him.</span>
   <span id="f000250">That pleases me,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and I study to be useful to him in every way I can,</span>
   <span id="f000252">so as to increase his regard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">During the last day or two I have taken all the work of naming things off his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and this has been a great relief to him,</span>
   <span id="f000255">for he has no gift in that line,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and is evidently very grateful.</span>
   <span id="f000257">He can’t think of a rational name to save him,</span>
   <span id="f000258">but I do not let him see that I am aware of his defect.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Whenever a new creature comes along I name it before he has time to expose himself by an awkward silence.</span>
   <span id="f000260">In this way I have saved him many embarrassments.</span>
   <span id="f000261">I have no defect like this.</span>
   <span id="f000262">The minute I set eyes on an animal I know what it is.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I don’t have to reflect a moment;</span>
   <span id="f000264">the right name comes out instantly,</span>
   <span id="f000265">just as if it were an inspiration,</span>
   <span id="f000266">as no doubt it is,</span>
   <span id="f000267">for I am sure it wasn’t in me half a minute before.</span>
   <span id="f000268">I seem to know just by the shape of the creature and the way it acts what animal it is.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">When the dodo came along he thought it was a wildcat – I saw it in his eye.</span>
   <span id="f000270">But I saved him.</span>
   <span id="f000271">And I was careful not to do it in a way that could hurt his pride.</span>
   <span id="f000272">I just spoke up in a quite natural way of pleasing surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and not as if I was dreaming of conveying information,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000275">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000276">I do declare,</span>
   <span id="f000277">if there isn’t the dodo!” I explained – without seeming to be explaining – how I know it for a dodo,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and although I thought maybe he was a little piqued that I knew the creature when he didn’t,</span>
   <span id="f000279">it was quite evident that he admired me.</span>
   <span id="f000280">That was very agreeable,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and I thought of it more than once with gratification before I slept.</span>
   <span id="f000282">How little a thing can make us happy when we feel that we have earned it!</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000283">THURSDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000284">– my first sorrow.</span>
   <span id="f000285">Yesterday he avoided me and seemed to wish I would not talk to him.</span>
   <span id="f000286">I could not believe it,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and thought there was some mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000288">for I loved to be with him,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and loved to hear him talk,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and so how could it be that he could feel unkind toward me when I had not done anything?</span>
   <span id="f000291">But at last it seemed true,</span>
   <span id="f000292">so I went away and sat lonely in the place where I first saw him the morning that we were made and I did not know what he was and was indifferent about him;</span>
   <span id="f000293">but now it was a mournful place,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and every little thing spoke of him,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and my heart was very sore.</span>
   <span id="f000296">I did not know why very clearly,</span>
   <span id="f000297">for it was a new feeling;</span>
   <span id="f000298">I had not experienced it before,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and it was all a mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and I could not make it out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">But when night came I could not bear the lonesomeness,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and went to the new shelter which he has built,</span>
   <span id="f000303">to ask him what I had done that was wrong and how I could mend it and get back his kindness again;</span>
   <span id="f000304">but he put me out in the rain,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and it was my first sorrow.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000306">SUNDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000307">– It is pleasant again,</span>
   <span id="f000308">now,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and I am happy;</span>
   <span id="f000310">but those were heavy days;</span>
   <span id="f000311">I do not think of them when I can help it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">I tried to get him some of those apples,</span>
   <span id="f000313">but I cannot learn to throw straight.</span>
   <span id="f000314">I failed,</span>
   <span id="f000315">but I think the good intention pleased him.</span>
   <span id="f000316">They are forbidden,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and he says I shall come to harm;</span>
   <span id="f000318">but so I come to harm through pleasing him,</span>
   <span id="f000319">why shall I care for that harm?</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000320">MONDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000321">– This morning I told him my name,</span>
   <span id="f000322">hoping it would interest him.</span>
   <span id="f000323">But he did not care for it.</span>
   <span id="f000324">It is strange.</span>
   <span id="f000325">If he should tell me his name,</span>
   <span id="f000326">I would care.</span>
   <span id="f000327">I think it would be pleasanter in my ears than any other sound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">He talks very little.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Perhaps it is because he is not bright,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and is sensitive about it and wishes to conceal it.</span>
   <span id="f000331">It is such a pity that he should feel so,</span>
   <span id="f000332">for brightness is nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000333">it is in the heart that the values lie.</span>
   <span id="f000334">I wish I could make him understand that a loving good heart is riches,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and riches enough,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and that without it intellect is poverty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">Although he talks so little,</span>
   <span id="f000338">he has quite a considerable vocabulary.</span>
   <span id="f000339">This morning he used a surprisingly good word.</span>
   <span id="f000340">He evidently recognized,</span>
   <span id="f000341">himself,</span>
   <span id="f000342">that it was a good one,</span>
   <span id="f000343">for he worked in in twice afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000344">casually.</span>
   <span id="f000345">It was good casual art,</span>
   <span id="f000346">still it showed that he possesses a certain quality of perception.</span>
   <span id="f000347">Without a doubt that seed can be made to grow,</span>
   <span id="f000348">if cultivated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">Where did he get that word?</span>
   <span id="f000350">I do not think I have ever used it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">No,</span>
   <span id="f000352">he took no interest in my name.</span>
   <span id="f000353">I tried to hide my disappointment,</span>
   <span id="f000354">but I suppose I did not succeed.</span>
   <span id="f000355">I went away and sat on the moss-bank with my feet in the water.</span>
   <span id="f000356">It is where I go when I hunger for companionship,</span>
   <span id="f000357">some one to look at,</span>
   <span id="f000358">some one to talk to.</span>
   <span id="f000359">It is not enough – that lovely white body painted there in the pool – but it is something,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and something is better than utter loneliness.</span>
   <span id="f000361">It talks when I talk;</span>
   <span id="f000362">it is sad when I am sad;</span>
   <span id="f000363">it comforts me with its sympathy;</span>
   <span id="f000364">it says,</span>
   <span id="f000365">“Do not be downhearted,</span>
   <span id="f000366">you poor friendless girl;</span>
   <span id="f000367">I will be your friend.” It IS a good friend to me,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and my only one;</span>
   <span id="f000369">it is my sister.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">That first time that she forsook me!</span>
   <span id="f000371">ah,</span>
   <span id="f000372">I shall never forget that – never,</span>
   <span id="f000373">never.</span>
   <span id="f000374">My heart was lead in my body!</span>
   <span id="f000375">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000376">“She was all I had,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and now she is gone!” In my despair I said,</span>
   <span id="f000378">“Break,</span>
   <span id="f000379">my heart;</span>
   <span id="f000380">I cannot bear my life any more!” and hid my face in my hands,</span>
   <span id="f000381">and there was no solace for me.</span>
   <span id="f000382">And when I took them away,</span>
   <span id="f000383">after a little,</span>
   <span id="f000384">there she was again,</span>
   <span id="f000385">white and shining and beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and I sprang into her arms!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000387">That was perfect happiness;</span>
   <span id="f000388">I had known happiness before,</span>
   <span id="f000389">but it was not like this,</span>
   <span id="f000390">which was ecstasy.</span>
   <span id="f000391">I never doubted her afterward.</span>
   <span id="f000392">Sometimes she stayed away – maybe an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000393">maybe almost the whole day,</span>
   <span id="f000394">but I waited and did not doubt;</span>
   <span id="f000395">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000396">“She is busy,</span>
   <span id="f000397">or she is gone on a journey,</span>
   <span id="f000398">but she will come.” And it was so:</span>
   <span id="f000399">she always did.</span>
   <span id="f000400">At night she would not come if it was dark,</span>
   <span id="f000401">for she was a timid little thing;</span>
   <span id="f000402">but if there was a moon she would come.</span>
   <span id="f000403">I am not afraid of the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000404">but she is younger than I am;</span>
   <span id="f000405">she was born after I was.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Many and many are the visits I have paid her;</span>
   <span id="f000407">she is my comfort and my refuge when my life is hard – and it is mainly that.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000408">TUESDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000409">– All the morning I was at work improving the estate;</span>
   <span id="f000410">and I purposely kept away from him in the hope that he would get lonely and come.</span>
   <span id="f000411">But he did not.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">At noon I stopped for the day and took my recreation by flitting all about with the bees and the butterflies and reveling in the flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000413">those beautiful creatures that catch the smile of God out of the sky and preserve it!</span>
   <span id="f000414">I gathered them,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and made them into wreaths and garlands and clothed myself in them while I ate my luncheon – apples,</span>
   <span id="f000416">of course;</span>
   <span id="f000417">then I sat in the shade and wished and waited.</span>
   <span id="f000418">But he did not come.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">But no matter.</span>
   <span id="f000420">Nothing would have come of it,</span>
   <span id="f000421">for he does not care for flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000422">He called them rubbish,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and cannot tell one from another,</span>
   <span id="f000424">and thinks it is superior to feel like that.</span>
   <span id="f000425">He does not care for me,</span>
   <span id="f000426">he does not care for flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000427">he does not care for the painted sky at eventide – is there anything he does care for,</span>
   <span id="f000428">except building shacks to coop himself up in from the good clean rain,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and thumping the melons,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and sampling the grapes,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and fingering the fruit on the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000432">to see how those properties are coming along?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">I laid a dry stick on the ground and tried to bore a hole in it with another one,</span>
   <span id="f000434">in order to carry out a scheme that I had,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and soon I got an awful fright.</span>
   <span id="f000436">A thin,</span>
   <span id="f000437">transparent bluish film rose out of the hole,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and I dropped everything and ran!</span>
   <span id="f000439">I thought it was a spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and I WAS so frightened!</span>
   <span id="f000441">But I looked back,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and it was not coming;</span>
   <span id="f000443">so I leaned against a rock and rested and panted,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and let my limbs go on trembling until they got steady again;</span>
   <span id="f000445">then I crept warily back,</span>
   <span id="f000446">alert,</span>
   <span id="f000447">watching,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and ready to fly if there was occasion;</span>
   <span id="f000449">and when I was come near,</span>
   <span id="f000450">I parted the branches of a rose-bush and peeped through – wishing the man was about,</span>
   <span id="f000451">I was looking so cunning and pretty – but the sprite was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000452">I went there,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and there was a pinch of delicate pink dust in the hole.</span>
   <span id="f000454">I put my finger in,</span>
   <span id="f000455">to feel it,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and said OUCH!</span>
   <span id="f000457">and took it out again.</span>
   <span id="f000458">It was a cruel pain.</span>
   <span id="f000459">I put my finger in my mouth;</span>
   <span id="f000460">and by standing first on one foot and then the other,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and grunting,</span>
   <span id="f000462">I presently eased my misery;</span>
   <span id="f000463">then I was full of interest,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and began to examine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">I was curious to know what the pink dust was.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Suddenly the name of it occurred to me,</span>
   <span id="f000467">though I had never heard of it before.</span>
   <span id="f000468">It was FIRE!</span>
   <span id="f000469">I was as certain of it as a person could be of anything in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000470">So without hesitation I named it that – fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">I had created something that didn’t exist before;</span>
   <span id="f000472">I had added a new thing to the world’s uncountable properties;</span>
   <span id="f000473">I realized this,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and was proud of my achievement,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and was going to run and find him and tell him about it,</span>
   <span id="f000476">thinking to raise myself in his esteem – but I reflected,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and did not do it.</span>
   <span id="f000478">No – he would not care for it.</span>
   <span id="f000479">He would ask what it was good for,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and what could I answer?</span>
   <span id="f000481">for if it was not GOOD for something,</span>
   <span id="f000482">but only beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000483">merely beautiful –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">So I sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and did not go.</span>
   <span id="f000486">For it wasn’t good for anything;</span>
   <span id="f000487">it could not build a shack,</span>
   <span id="f000488">it could not improve melons,</span>
   <span id="f000489">it could not hurry a fruit crop;</span>
   <span id="f000490">it was useless,</span>
   <span id="f000491">it was a foolishness and a vanity;</span>
   <span id="f000492">he would despise it and say cutting words.</span>
   <span id="f000493">But to me it was not despicable;</span>
   <span id="f000494">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000495">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000496">you fire,</span>
   <span id="f000497">I love you,</span>
   <span id="f000498">you dainty pink creature,</span>
   <span id="f000499">for you are BEAUTIFUL – and that is enough!” and was going to gather it to my breast.</span>
   <span id="f000500">But refrained.</span>
   <span id="f000501">Then I made another maxim out of my head,</span>
   <span id="f000502">though it was so nearly like the first one that I was afraid it was only a plagiarism:</span>
   <span id="f000503">“THE BURNT EXPERIMENT SHUNS THE FIRE.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">I wrought again;</span>
   <span id="f000505">and when I had made a good deal of fire-dust I emptied it into a handful of dry brown grass,</span>
   <span id="f000506">intending to carry it home and keep it always and play with it;</span>
   <span id="f000507">but the wind struck it and it sprayed up and spat out at me fiercely,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and I dropped it and ran.</span>
   <span id="f000509">When I looked back the blue spirit was towering up and stretching and rolling away like a cloud,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and instantly I thought of the name of it – SMOKE!</span>
   <span id="f000511">– though,</span>
   <span id="f000512">upon my word,</span>
   <span id="f000513">I had never heard of smoke before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">Soon brilliant yellow and red flares shot up through the smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and I named them in an instant – FLAMES – and I was right,</span>
   <span id="f000516">too,</span>
   <span id="f000517">though these were the very first flames that had ever been in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000518">They climbed the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000519">then flashed splendidly in and out of the vast and increasing volume of tumbling smoke,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and I had to clap my hands and laugh and dance in my rapture,</span>
   <span id="f000521">it was so new and strange and so wonderful and so beautiful!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">He came running,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and stopped and gazed,</span>
   <span id="f000524">and said not a word for many minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000525">Then he asked what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000526">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000527">it was too bad that he should ask such a direct question.</span>
   <span id="f000528">I had to answer it,</span>
   <span id="f000529">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000530">and I did.</span>
   <span id="f000531">I said it was fire.</span>
   <span id="f000532">If it annoyed him that I should know and he must ask;</span>
   <span id="f000533">that was not my fault;</span>
   <span id="f000534">I had no desire to annoy him.</span>
   <span id="f000535">After a pause he asked:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">“How did it come?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">Another direct question,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and it also had to have a direct answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">“I made it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">The fire was traveling farther and farther off.</span>
   <span id="f000541">He went to the edge of the burned place and stood looking down,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">“What are these?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000544">“Fire-coals.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">He picked up one to examine it,</span>
   <span id="f000546">but changed his mind and put it down again.</span>
   <span id="f000547">Then he went away.</span>
   <span id="f000548">NOTHING interests him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">But I was interested.</span>
   <span id="f000550">There were ashes,</span>
   <span id="f000551">gray and soft and delicate and pretty – I knew what they were at once.</span>
   <span id="f000552">And the embers;</span>
   <span id="f000553">I knew the embers,</span>
   <span id="f000554">too.</span>
   <span id="f000555">I found my apples,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and raked them out,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and was glad;</span>
   <span id="f000558">for I am very young and my appetite is active.</span>
   <span id="f000559">But I was disappointed;</span>
   <span id="f000560">they were all burst open and spoiled.</span>
   <span id="f000561">Spoiled apparently;</span>
   <span id="f000562">but it was not so;</span>
   <span id="f000563">they were better than raw ones.</span>
   <span id="f000564">Fire is beautiful;</span>
   <span id="f000565">some day it will be useful,</span>
   <span id="f000566">I think.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000567">FRIDAY.</span>
   <span id="f000568">– I saw him again,</span>
   <span id="f000569">for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000570">last Monday at nightfall,</span>
   <span id="f000571">but only for a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000572">I was hoping he would praise me for trying to improve the estate,</span>
   <span id="f000573">for I had meant well and had worked hard.</span>
   <span id="f000574">But he was not pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000575">and turned away and left me.</span>
   <span id="f000576">He was also displeased on another account:</span>
   <span id="f000577">I tried once more to persuade him to stop going over the Falls.</span>
   <span id="f000578">That was because the fire had revealed to me a new passion – quite new,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and distinctly different from love,</span>
   <span id="f000580">grief,</span>
   <span id="f000581">and those others which I had already discovered – FEAR.</span>
   <span id="f000582">And it is horrible!</span>
   <span id="f000583">– I wish I had never discovered it;</span>
   <span id="f000584">it gives me dark moments,</span>
   <span id="f000585">it spoils my happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000586">it makes me shiver and tremble and shudder.</span>
   <span id="f000587">But I could not persuade him,</span>
   <span id="f000588">for he has not discovered fear yet,</span>
   <span id="f000589">and so he could not understand me.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000590">Extract from Adam's Diary</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000591">Perhaps I ought to remember that she is very young,</span>
   <span id="f000592">a mere girl and make allowances.</span>
   <span id="f000593">She is all interest,</span>
   <span id="f000594">eagerness,</span>
   <span id="f000595">vivacity,</span>
   <span id="f000596">the world is to her a charm,</span>
   <span id="f000597">a wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000598">a mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000599">a joy;</span>
   <span id="f000600">she can’t speak for delight when she finds a new flower,</span>
   <span id="f000601">she must pet it and caress it and smell it and talk to it,</span>
   <span id="f000602">and pour out endearing names upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000603">And she is color-mad:</span>
   <span id="f000604">brown rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000605">yellow sand,</span>
   <span id="f000606">gray moss,</span>
   <span id="f000607">green foliage,</span>
   <span id="f000608">blue sky;</span>
   <span id="f000609">the pearl of the dawn,</span>
   <span id="f000610">the purple shadows on the mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000611">the golden islands floating in crimson seas at sunset,</span>
   <span id="f000612">the pallid moon sailing through the shredded cloud-rack,</span>
   <span id="f000613">the star-jewels glittering in the wastes of space – none of them is of any practical value,</span>
   <span id="f000614">so far as I can see,</span>
   <span id="f000615">but because they have color and majesty,</span>
   <span id="f000616">that is enough for her,</span>
   <span id="f000617">and she loses her mind over them.</span>
   <span id="f000618">If she could quiet down and keep still a couple minutes at a time,</span>
   <span id="f000619">it would be a reposeful spectacle.</span>
   <span id="f000620">In that case I think I could enjoy looking at her;</span>
   <span id="f000621">indeed I am sure I could,</span>
   <span id="f000622">for I am coming to realize that she is a quite remarkably comely creature – lithe,</span>
   <span id="f000623">slender,</span>
   <span id="f000624">trim,</span>
   <span id="f000625">rounded,</span>
   <span id="f000626">shapely,</span>
   <span id="f000627">nimble,</span>
   <span id="f000628">graceful;</span>
   <span id="f000629">and once when she was standing marble-white and sun-drenched on a boulder,</span>
   <span id="f000630">with her young head tilted back and her hand shading her eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000631">watching the flight of a bird in the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000632">I recognized that she was beautiful.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000633">MONDAY NOON.</span>
   <span id="f000634">– If there is anything on the planet that she is not interested in it is not in my list.</span>
   <span id="f000635">There are animals that I am indifferent to,</span>
   <span id="f000636">but it is not so with her.</span>
   <span id="f000637">She has no discrimination,</span>
   <span id="f000638">she takes to all of them,</span>
   <span id="f000639">she thinks they are all treasures,</span>
   <span id="f000640">every new one is welcome.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">When the mighty brontosaurus came striding into camp,</span>
   <span id="f000642">she regarded it as an acquisition,</span>
   <span id="f000643">I considered it a calamity;</span>
   <span id="f000644">that is a good sample of the lack of harmony that prevails in our views of things.</span>
   <span id="f000645">She wanted to domesticate it,</span>
   <span id="f000646">I wanted to make it a present of the homestead and move out.</span>
   <span id="f000647">She believed it could be tamed by kind treatment and would be a good pet;</span>
   <span id="f000648">I said a pet twenty-one feet high and eighty-four feet long would be no proper thing to have about the place,</span>
   <span id="f000649">because,</span>
   <span id="f000650">even with the best intentions and without meaning any harm,</span>
   <span id="f000651">it could sit down on the house and mash it,</span>
   <span id="f000652">for any one could see by the look of its eye that it was absent-minded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000653">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000654">her heart was set upon having that monster,</span>
   <span id="f000655">and she couldn’t give it up.</span>
   <span id="f000656">She thought we could start a dairy with it,</span>
   <span id="f000657">and wanted me to help milk it;</span>
   <span id="f000658">but I wouldn’t;</span>
   <span id="f000659">it was too risky.</span>
   <span id="f000660">The sex wasn’t right,</span>
   <span id="f000661">and we hadn’t any ladder anyway.</span>
   <span id="f000662">Then she wanted to ride it,</span>
   <span id="f000663">and look at the scenery.</span>
   <span id="f000664">Thirty or forty feet of its tail was lying on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000665">like a fallen tree,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and she thought she could climb it,</span>
   <span id="f000667">but she was mistaken;</span>
   <span id="f000668">when she got to the steep place it was too slick and down she came,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and would have hurt herself but for me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000670">Was she satisfied now?</span>
   <span id="f000671">No.</span>
   <span id="f000672">Nothing ever satisfies her but demonstration;</span>
   <span id="f000673">untested theories are not in her line,</span>
   <span id="f000674">and she won’t have them.</span>
   <span id="f000675">It is the right spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000676">I concede it;</span>
   <span id="f000677">it attracts me;</span>
   <span id="f000678">I feel the influence of it;</span>
   <span id="f000679">if I were with her more I think I should take it up myself.</span>
   <span id="f000680">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000681">she had one theory remaining about this colossus:</span>
   <span id="f000682">she thought that if we could tame it and make him friendly we could stand in the river and use him for a bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000683">It turned out that he was already plenty tame enough – at least as far as she was concerned – so she tried her theory,</span>
   <span id="f000684">but it failed:</span>
   <span id="f000685">every time she got him properly placed in the river and went ashore to cross over him,</span>
   <span id="f000686">he came out and followed her around like a pet mountain.</span>
   <span id="f000687">Like the other animals.</span>
   <span id="f000688">They all do that.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000689">Tuesday – Wednesday – Thursday – and today:</span>
   <span id="f000690">all without seeing him.</span>
   <span id="f000691">It is a long time to be alone;</span>
   <span id="f000692">still,</span>
   <span id="f000693">it is better to be alone than unwelcome.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000694">FRIDAY – I HAD to have company – I was made for it,</span>
   <span id="f000695">I think – so I made friends with the animals.</span>
   <span id="f000696">They are just charming,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and they have the kindest disposition and the politest ways;</span>
   <span id="f000698">they never look sour,</span>
   <span id="f000699">they never let you feel that you are intruding,</span>
   <span id="f000700">they smile at you and wag their tail,</span>
   <span id="f000701">if they’ve got one,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and they are always ready for a romp or an excursion or anything you want to propose.</span>
   <span id="f000703">I think they are perfect gentlemen.</span>
   <span id="f000704">All these days we have had such good times,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and it hasn’t been lonesome for me,</span>
   <span id="f000706">ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">Lonesome!</span>
   <span id="f000708">No,</span>
   <span id="f000709">I should say not.</span>
   <span id="f000710">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000711">there’s always a swarm of them around – sometimes as much as four or five acres – you can’t count them;</span>
   <span id="f000712">and when you stand on a rock in the midst and look out over the furry expanse it is so mottled and splashed and gay with color and frisking sheen and sun-flash,</span>
   <span id="f000713">and so rippled with stripes,</span>
   <span id="f000714">that you might think it was a lake,</span>
   <span id="f000715">only you know it isn’t;</span>
   <span id="f000716">and there’s storms of sociable birds,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and hurricanes of whirring wings;</span>
   <span id="f000718">and when the sun strikes all that feathery commotion,</span>
   <span id="f000719">you have a blazing up of all the colors you can think of,</span>
   <span id="f000720">enough to put your eyes out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">We have made long excursions,</span>
   <span id="f000722">and I have seen a great deal of the world;</span>
   <span id="f000723">almost all of it,</span>
   <span id="f000724">I think;</span>
   <span id="f000725">and so I am the first traveler,</span>
   <span id="f000726">and the only one.</span>
   <span id="f000727">When we are on the march,</span>
   <span id="f000728">it is an imposing sight – there’s nothing like it anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000729">For comfort I ride a tiger or a leopard,</span>
   <span id="f000730">because it is soft and has a round back that fits me,</span>
   <span id="f000731">and because they are such pretty animals;</span>
   <span id="f000732">but for long distance or for scenery I ride the elephant.</span>
   <span id="f000733">He hoists me up with his trunk,</span>
   <span id="f000734">but I can get off myself;</span>
   <span id="f000735">when we are ready to camp,</span>
   <span id="f000736">he sits and I slide down the back way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000737">The birds and animals are all friendly to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and there are no disputes about anything.</span>
   <span id="f000739">They all talk,</span>
   <span id="f000740">and they all talk to me,</span>
   <span id="f000741">but it must be a foreign language,</span>
   <span id="f000742">for I cannot make out a word they say;</span>
   <span id="f000743">yet they often understand me when I talk back,</span>
   <span id="f000744">particularly the dog and the elephant.</span>
   <span id="f000745">It makes me ashamed.</span>
   <span id="f000746">It shows that they are brighter than I am,</span>
   <span id="f000747">for I want to be the principal Experiment myself – and I intend to be,</span>
   <span id="f000748">too.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">I have learned a number of things,</span>
   <span id="f000750">and am educated,</span>
   <span id="f000751">now,</span>
   <span id="f000752">but I wasn’t at first.</span>
   <span id="f000753">I was ignorant at first.</span>
   <span id="f000754">At first it used to vex me because,</span>
   <span id="f000755">with all my watching,</span>
   <span id="f000756">I was never smart enough to be around when the water was running uphill;</span>
   <span id="f000757">but now I do not mind it.</span>
   <span id="f000758">I have experimented and experimented until now I know it never does run uphill,</span>
   <span id="f000759">except in the dark.</span>
   <span id="f000760">I know it does in the dark,</span>
   <span id="f000761">because the pool never goes dry,</span>
   <span id="f000762">which it would,</span>
   <span id="f000763">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000764">if the water didn’t come back in the night.</span>
   <span id="f000765">It is best to prove things by actual experiment;</span>
   <span id="f000766">then you KNOW;</span>
   <span id="f000767">whereas if you depend on guessing and supposing and conjecturing,</span>
   <span id="f000768">you never get educated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000769">Some things you CAN’T find out;</span>
   <span id="f000770">but you will never know you can’t by guessing and supposing:</span>
   <span id="f000771">no,</span>
   <span id="f000772">you have to be patient and go on experimenting until you find out that you can’t find out.</span>
   <span id="f000773">And it is delightful to have it that way,</span>
   <span id="f000774">it makes the world so interesting.</span>
   <span id="f000775">If there wasn’t anything to find out,</span>
   <span id="f000776">it would be dull.</span>
   <span id="f000777">Even trying to find out and not finding out is just as interesting as trying to find out and finding out,</span>
   <span id="f000778">and I don’t know but more so.</span>
   <span id="f000779">The secret of the water was a treasure until I GOT it;</span>
   <span id="f000780">then the excitement all went away,</span>
   <span id="f000781">and I recognized a sense of loss.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000782">By experiment I know that wood swims,</span>
   <span id="f000783">and dry leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000784">and feathers,</span>
   <span id="f000785">and plenty of other things;</span>
   <span id="f000786">therefore by all that cumulative evidence you know that a rock will swim;</span>
   <span id="f000787">but you have to put up with simply knowing it,</span>
   <span id="f000788">for there isn’t any way to prove it – up to now.</span>
   <span id="f000789">But I shall find a way – then THAT excitement will go.</span>
   <span id="f000790">Such things make me sad;</span>
   <span id="f000791">because by and by when I have found out everything there won’t be any more excitements,</span>
   <span id="f000792">and I do love excitements so!</span>
   <span id="f000793">The other night I couldn’t sleep for thinking about it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">At first I couldn’t make out what I was made for,</span>
   <span id="f000795">but now I think it was to search out the secrets of this wonderful world and be happy and thank the Giver of it all for devising it.</span>
   <span id="f000796">I think there are many things to learn yet – I hope so;</span>
   <span id="f000797">and by economizing and not hurrying too fast I think they will last weeks and weeks.</span>
   <span id="f000798">I hope so.</span>
   <span id="f000799">When you cast up a feather it sails away on the air and goes out of sight;</span>
   <span id="f000800">then you throw up a clod and it doesn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000801">It comes down,</span>
   <span id="f000802">every time.</span>
   <span id="f000803">I have tried it and tried it,</span>
   <span id="f000804">and it is always so.</span>
   <span id="f000805">I wonder why it is?</span>
   <span id="f000806">Of course it DOESN’T come down,</span>
   <span id="f000807">but why should it SEEM to?</span>
   <span id="f000808">I suppose it is an optical illusion.</span>
   <span id="f000809">I mean,</span>
   <span id="f000810">one of them is.</span>
   <span id="f000811">I don’t know which one.</span>
   <span id="f000812">It may be the feather,</span>
   <span id="f000813">it may be the clod;</span>
   <span id="f000814">I can’t prove which it is,</span>
   <span id="f000815">I can only demonstrate that one or the other is a fake,</span>
   <span id="f000816">and let a person take his choice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">By watching,</span>
   <span id="f000818">I know that the stars are not going to last.</span>
   <span id="f000819">I have seen some of the best ones melt and run down the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000820">Since one can melt,</span>
   <span id="f000821">they can all melt;</span>
   <span id="f000822">since they can all melt,</span>
   <span id="f000823">they can all melt the same night.</span>
   <span id="f000824">That sorrow will come – I know it.</span>
   <span id="f000825">I mean to sit up every night and look at them as long as I can keep awake;</span>
   <span id="f000826">and I will impress those sparkling fields on my memory,</span>
   <span id="f000827">so that by and by when they are taken away I can by my fancy restore those lovely myriads to the black sky and make them sparkle again,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and double them by the blur of my tears.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000829">After the Fall</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000830">When I look back,</span>
   <span id="f000831">the Garden is a dream to me.</span>
   <span id="f000832">It was beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000833">surpassingly beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000834">enchantingly beautiful;</span>
   <span id="f000835">and now it is lost,</span>
   <span id="f000836">and I shall not see it any more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">The Garden is lost,</span>
   <span id="f000838">but I have found HIM,</span>
   <span id="f000839">and am content.</span>
   <span id="f000840">He loves me as well as he can;</span>
   <span id="f000841">I love him with all the strength of my passionate nature,</span>
   <span id="f000842">and this,</span>
   <span id="f000843">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000844">is proper to my youth and sex.</span>
   <span id="f000845">If I ask myself why I love him,</span>
   <span id="f000846">I find I do not know,</span>
   <span id="f000847">and do not really much care to know;</span>
   <span id="f000848">so I suppose that this kind of love is not a product of reasoning and statistics,</span>
   <span id="f000849">like one’s love for other reptiles and animals.</span>
   <span id="f000850">I think that this must be so.</span>
   <span id="f000851">I love certain birds because of their song;</span>
   <span id="f000852">but I do not love Adam on account of his singing – no,</span>
   <span id="f000853">it is not that;</span>
   <span id="f000854">the more he sings the more I do not get reconciled to it.</span>
   <span id="f000855">Yet I ask him to sing,</span>
   <span id="f000856">because I wish to learn to like everything he is interested in.</span>
   <span id="f000857">I am sure I can learn,</span>
   <span id="f000858">because at first I could not stand it,</span>
   <span id="f000859">but now I can.</span>
   <span id="f000860">It sours the milk,</span>
   <span id="f000861">but it doesn’t matter;</span>
   <span id="f000862">I can get used to that kind of milk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">It is not on account of his brightness that I love him – no,</span>
   <span id="f000864">it is not that.</span>
   <span id="f000865">He is not to blame for his brightness,</span>
   <span id="f000866">such as it is,</span>
   <span id="f000867">for he did not make it himself;</span>
   <span id="f000868">he is as God make him,</span>
   <span id="f000869">and that is sufficient.</span>
   <span id="f000870">There was a wise purpose in it,</span>
   <span id="f000871">THAT I know.</span>
   <span id="f000872">In time it will develop,</span>
   <span id="f000873">though I think it will not be sudden;</span>
   <span id="f000874">and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000875">there is no hurry;</span>
   <span id="f000876">he is well enough just as he is.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">It is not on account of his gracious and considerate ways and his delicacy that I love him.</span>
   <span id="f000878">No,</span>
   <span id="f000879">he has lacks in this regard,</span>
   <span id="f000880">but he is well enough just so,</span>
   <span id="f000881">and is improving.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">It is not on account of his industry that I love him – no,</span>
   <span id="f000883">it is not that.</span>
   <span id="f000884">I think he has it in him,</span>
   <span id="f000885">and I do not know why he conceals it from me.</span>
   <span id="f000886">It is my only pain.</span>
   <span id="f000887">Otherwise he is frank and open with me,</span>
   <span id="f000888">now.</span>
   <span id="f000889">I am sure he keeps nothing from me but this.</span>
   <span id="f000890">It grieves me that he should have a secret from me,</span>
   <span id="f000891">and sometimes it spoils my sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000892">thinking of it,</span>
   <span id="f000893">but I will put it out of my mind;</span>
   <span id="f000894">it shall not trouble my happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000895">which is otherwise full to overflowing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000896">It is not on account of his education that I love him – no,</span>
   <span id="f000897">it is not that.</span>
   <span id="f000898">He is self-educated,</span>
   <span id="f000899">and does really know a multitude of things,</span>
   <span id="f000900">but they are not so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000901">It is not on account of his chivalry that I love him – no,</span>
   <span id="f000902">it is not that.</span>
   <span id="f000903">He told on me,</span>
   <span id="f000904">but I do not blame him;</span>
   <span id="f000905">it is a peculiarity of sex,</span>
   <span id="f000906">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and he did not make his sex.</span>
   <span id="f000908">Of course I would not have told on him,</span>
   <span id="f000909">I would have perished first;</span>
   <span id="f000910">but that is a peculiarity of sex,</span>
   <span id="f000911">too,</span>
   <span id="f000912">and I do not take credit for it,</span>
   <span id="f000913">for I did not make my sex.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000914">Then why is it that I love him?</span>
   <span id="f000915">MERELY BECAUSE HE IS MASCULINE,</span>
   <span id="f000916">I think.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">At bottom he is good,</span>
   <span id="f000918">and I love him for that,</span>
   <span id="f000919">but I could love him without it.</span>
   <span id="f000920">If he should beat me and abuse me,</span>
   <span id="f000921">I should go on loving him.</span>
   <span id="f000922">I know it.</span>
   <span id="f000923">It is a matter of sex,</span>
   <span id="f000924">I think.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000925">He is strong and handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000926">and I love him for that,</span>
   <span id="f000927">and I admire him and am proud of him,</span>
   <span id="f000928">but I could love him without those qualities.</span>
   <span id="f000929">If he were plain,</span>
   <span id="f000930">I should love him;</span>
   <span id="f000931">if he were a wreck,</span>
   <span id="f000932">I should love him;</span>
   <span id="f000933">and I would work for him,</span>
   <span id="f000934">and slave over him,</span>
   <span id="f000935">and pray for him,</span>
   <span id="f000936">and watch by his bedside until I died.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000938">I think I love him merely because he is MINE and is MASCULINE.</span>
   <span id="f000939">There is no other reason,</span>
   <span id="f000940">I suppose.</span>
   <span id="f000941">And so I think it is as I first said:</span>
   <span id="f000942">that this kind of love is not a product of reasonings and statistics.</span>
   <span id="f000943">It just COMES – none knows whence – and cannot explain itself.</span>
   <span id="f000944">And doesn’t need to.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000945">It is what I think.</span>
   <span id="f000946">But I am only a girl,</span>
   <span id="f000947">the first that has examined this matter,</span>
   <span id="f000948">and it may turn out that in my ignorance and inexperience I have not got it right.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000949">Forty Years Later</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000950">It is my prayer,</span>
   <span id="f000951">it is my longing,</span>
   <span id="f000952">that we may pass from this life together – a longing which shall never perish from the earth,</span>
   <span id="f000953">but shall have place in the heart of every wife that loves,</span>
   <span id="f000954">until the end of time;</span>
   <span id="f000955">and it shall be called by my name.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000956">But if one of us must go first,</span>
   <span id="f000957">it is my prayer that it shall be I;</span>
   <span id="f000958">for he is strong,</span>
   <span id="f000959">I am weak,</span>
   <span id="f000960">I am not so necessary to him as he is to me – life without him would not be life;</span>
   <span id="f000961">how could I endure it?</span>
   <span id="f000962">This prayer is also immortal,</span>
   <span id="f000963">and will not cease from being offered up while my race continues.</span>
   <span id="f000964">I am the first wife;</span>
   <span id="f000965">and in the last wife I shall be repeated.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000966">At Eve's Grave</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000967">ADAM:</span>
   <span id="f000968">Wheresoever she was,</span>
   <span id="f000969">THERE was Eden.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

