<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure VIII<br />The Adventure of the Speckled Band</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I have during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000009">I find many tragic,</span>
   <span id="f000010">some comic,</span>
   <span id="f000011">a large number merely strange,</span>
   <span id="f000012">but none commonplace;</span>
   <span id="f000013">for,</span>
   <span id="f000014">working as he did rather for the love of his art than for the acquirement of wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000015">he refused to associate himself with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and even the fantastic.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Of all these varied cases,</span>
   <span id="f000018">however,</span>
   <span id="f000019">I cannot recall any which presented more singular features than that which was associated with the well-known Surrey family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran.</span>
   <span id="f000020">The events in question occurred in the early days of my association with Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000021">when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in Baker Street.</span>
   <span id="f000022">It is possible that I might have placed them upon record before,</span>
   <span id="f000023">but a promise of secrecy was made at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000024">from which I have only been freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom the pledge was given.</span>
   <span id="f000025">It is perhaps as well that the facts should now come to light,</span>
   <span id="f000026">for I have reasons to know that there are widespread rumours as to the death of Dr.&#160;Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the matter even more terrible than the truth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">It was early in April in the year ’83 that I woke one morning to find Sherlock Holmes standing,</span>
   <span id="f000028">fully dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000029">by the side of my bed.</span>
   <span id="f000030">He was a late riser,</span>
   <span id="f000031">as a rule,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me that it was only a quarter-past seven,</span>
   <span id="f000033">I blinked up at him in some surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and perhaps just a little resentment,</span>
   <span id="f000035">for I was myself regular in my habits.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“Very sorry to knock you up,</span>
   <span id="f000037">Watson,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000038">“but it’s the common lot this morning.</span>
   <span id="f000039">Mrs.&#160;Hudson has been knocked up,</span>
   <span id="f000040">she retorted upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and I on you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“What is it,</span>
   <span id="f000043">then – a fire?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000045">a client.</span>
   <span id="f000046">It seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable state of excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000047">who insists upon seeing me.</span>
   <span id="f000048">She is waiting now in the sitting-room.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000050">when young ladies wander about the metropolis at this hour of the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and knock sleepy people up out of their beds,</span>
   <span id="f000052">I presume that it is something very pressing which they have to communicate.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Should it prove to be an interesting case,</span>
   <span id="f000054">you would,</span>
   <span id="f000055">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f000056">wish to follow it from the outset.</span>
   <span id="f000057">I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000058">at any rate,</span>
   <span id="f000059">that I should call you and give you the chance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“My dear fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000061">I would not miss it for anything.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in his professional investigations,</span>
   <span id="f000063">and in admiring the rapid deductions,</span>
   <span id="f000064">as swift as intuitions,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he unravelled the problems which were submitted to him.</span>
   <span id="f000066">I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the sitting-room.</span>
   <span id="f000067">A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled,</span>
   <span id="f000068">who had been sitting in the window,</span>
   <span id="f000069">rose as we entered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“Good-morning,</span>
   <span id="f000071">madam,” said Holmes cheerily.</span>
   <span id="f000072">“My name is Sherlock Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000073">This is my intimate friend and associate,</span>
   <span id="f000074">Dr.&#160;Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000075">before whom you can speak as freely as before myself.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000077">I am glad to see that Mrs.&#160;Hudson has had the good sense to light the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Pray draw up to it,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee,</span>
   <span id="f000080">for I observe that you are shivering.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“It is not cold which makes me shiver,” said the woman in a low voice,</span>
   <span id="f000082">changing her seat as requested.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">“What,</span>
   <span id="f000084">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“It is fear,</span>
   <span id="f000086">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000087">It is terror.” She raised her veil as she spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of agitation,</span>
   <span id="f000089">her face all drawn and grey,</span>
   <span id="f000090">with restless frightened eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000091">like those of some hunted animal.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000093">but her hair was shot with premature grey,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and her expression was weary and haggard.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one of his quick,</span>
   <span id="f000096">all-comprehensive glances.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“You must not fear,” said he soothingly,</span>
   <span id="f000098">bending forward and patting her forearm.</span>
   <span id="f000099">“We shall soon set matters right,</span>
   <span id="f000100">I have no doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000101">You have come in by train this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000102">I see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“You know me,</span>
   <span id="f000104">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000106">but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove.</span>
   <span id="f000107">You must have started early,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and yet you had a good drive in a dog-cart,</span>
   <span id="f000109">along heavy roads,</span>
   <span id="f000110">before you reached the station.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my companion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“There is no mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000113">my dear madam,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000114">smiling.</span>
   <span id="f000115">“The left arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places.</span>
   <span id="f000116">The marks are perfectly fresh.</span>
   <span id="f000117">There is no vehicle save a dog-cart which throws up mud in that way,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and then only when you sit on the left-hand side of the driver.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“Whatever your reasons may be,</span>
   <span id="f000120">you are perfectly correct,” said she.</span>
   <span id="f000121">“I started from home before six,</span>
   <span id="f000122">reached Leatherhead at twenty past,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and came in by the first train to Waterloo.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Sir,</span>
   <span id="f000125">I can stand this strain no longer;</span>
   <span id="f000126">I shall go mad if it continues.</span>
   <span id="f000127">I have no one to turn to – none,</span>
   <span id="f000128">save only one,</span>
   <span id="f000129">who cares for me,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and he,</span>
   <span id="f000131">poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000132">can be of little aid.</span>
   <span id="f000133">I have heard of you,</span>
   <span id="f000134">Mr.&#160;Holmes;</span>
   <span id="f000135">I have heard of you from Mrs.&#160;Farintosh,</span>
   <span id="f000136">whom you helped in the hour of her sore need.</span>
   <span id="f000137">It was from her that I had your address.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000139">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000140">do you not think that you could help me,</span>
   <span id="f000141">too,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me?</span>
   <span id="f000143">At present it is out of my power to reward you for your services,</span>
   <span id="f000144">but in a month or six weeks I shall be married,</span>
   <span id="f000145">with the control of my own income,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">Holmes turned to his desk and,</span>
   <span id="f000148">unlocking it,</span>
   <span id="f000149">drew out a small case-book,</span>
   <span id="f000150">which he consulted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“Farintosh,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000152">“Ah yes,</span>
   <span id="f000153">I recall the case;</span>
   <span id="f000154">it was concerned with an opal tiara.</span>
   <span id="f000155">I think it was before your time,</span>
   <span id="f000156">Watson.</span>
   <span id="f000157">I can only say,</span>
   <span id="f000158">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000159">that I shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as I did to that of your friend.</span>
   <span id="f000160">As to reward,</span>
   <span id="f000161">my profession is its own reward;</span>
   <span id="f000162">but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses I may be put to,</span>
   <span id="f000163">at the time which suits you best.</span>
   <span id="f000164">And now I beg that you will lay before us everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the matter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">“Alas!” replied our visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000166">“the very horror of my situation lies in the fact that my fears are so vague,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and my suspicions depend so entirely upon small points,</span>
   <span id="f000168">which might seem trivial to another,</span>
   <span id="f000169">that even he to whom of all others I have a right to look for help and advice looks upon all that I tell him about it as the fancies of a nervous woman.</span>
   <span id="f000170">He does not say so,</span>
   <span id="f000171">but I can read it from his soothing answers and averted eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000172">But I have heard,</span>
   <span id="f000173">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000174">that you can see deeply into the manifold wickedness of the human heart.</span>
   <span id="f000175">You may advise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“I am all attention,</span>
   <span id="f000177">madam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">“My name is Helen Stoner,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and I am living with my stepfather,</span>
   <span id="f000180">who is the last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in England,</span>
   <span id="f000181">the Roylotts of Stoke Moran,</span>
   <span id="f000182">on the western border of Surrey.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">Holmes nodded his head.</span>
   <span id="f000184">“The name is familiar to me,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">The family was at one time among the richest in England,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and the estates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and Hampshire in the west.</span>
   <span id="f000188">In the last century,</span>
   <span id="f000189">however,</span>
   <span id="f000190">four successive heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and the family ruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the Regency.</span>
   <span id="f000192">Nothing was left save a few acres of ground,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and the two-hundred-year-old house,</span>
   <span id="f000194">which is itself crushed under a heavy mortgage.</span>
   <span id="f000195">The last squire dragged out his existence there,</span>
   <span id="f000196">living the horrible life of an aristocratic pauper;</span>
   <span id="f000197">but his only son,</span>
   <span id="f000198">my stepfather,</span>
   <span id="f000199">seeing that he must adapt himself to the new conditions,</span>
   <span id="f000200">obtained an advance from a relative,</span>
   <span id="f000201">which enabled him to take a medical degree and went out to Calcutta,</span>
   <span id="f000202">where,</span>
   <span id="f000203">by his professional skill and his force of character,</span>
   <span id="f000204">he established a large practice.</span>
   <span id="f000205">In a fit of anger,</span>
   <span id="f000206">however,</span>
   <span id="f000207">caused by some robberies which had been perpetrated in the house,</span>
   <span id="f000208">he beat his native butler to death and narrowly escaped a capital sentence.</span>
   <span id="f000209">As it was,</span>
   <span id="f000210">he suffered a long term of imprisonment and afterwards returned to England a morose and disappointed man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">When Dr.&#160;Roylott was in India he married my mother,</span>
   <span id="f000212">Mrs.&#160;Stoner,</span>
   <span id="f000213">the young widow of Major-General Stoner,</span>
   <span id="f000214">of the Bengal Artillery.</span>
   <span id="f000215">My sister Julia and I were twins,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and we were only two years old at the time of my mother’s re-marriage.</span>
   <span id="f000217">She had a considerable sum of money – not less than 1000 pounds a year – and this she bequeathed to Dr.&#160;Roylott entirely while we resided with him,</span>
   <span id="f000218">with a provision that a certain annual sum should be allowed to each of us in the event of our marriage.</span>
   <span id="f000219">Shortly after our return to England my mother died – she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near Crewe.</span>
   <span id="f000220">Dr.&#160;Roylott then abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at Stoke Moran.</span>
   <span id="f000221">The money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time.</span>
   <span id="f000224">Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbours,</span>
   <span id="f000225">who had at first been overjoyed to see a Roylott of Stoke Moran back in the old family seat,</span>
   <span id="f000226">he shut himself up in his house and seldom came out save to indulge in ferocious quarrels with whoever might cross his path.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in the men of the family,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and in my stepfather’s case it had,</span>
   <span id="f000229">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000230">been intensified by his long residence in the tropics.</span>
   <span id="f000231">A series of disgraceful brawls took place,</span>
   <span id="f000232">two of which ended in the police-court,</span>
   <span id="f000233">until at last he became the terror of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and the folks would fly at his approach,</span>
   <span id="f000235">for he is a man of immense strength,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and it was only by paying over all the money which I could gather together that I was able to avert another public exposure.</span>
   <span id="f000239">He had no friends at all save the wandering gipsies,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and he would give these vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of bramble-covered land which represent the family estate,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and would accept in return the hospitality of their tents,</span>
   <span id="f000242">wandering away with them sometimes for weeks on end.</span>
   <span id="f000243">He has a passion also for Indian animals,</span>
   <span id="f000244">which are sent over to him by a correspondent,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and he has at this moment a cheetah and a baboon,</span>
   <span id="f000246">which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the villagers almost as much as their master.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">“You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no great pleasure in our lives.</span>
   <span id="f000248">No servant would stay with us,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and for a long time we did all the work of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000250">She was but thirty at the time of her death,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and yet her hair had already begun to whiten,</span>
   <span id="f000252">even as mine has.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“Your sister is dead,</span>
   <span id="f000254">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">“She died just two years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and it is of her death that I wish to speak to you.</span>
   <span id="f000257">You can understand that,</span>
   <span id="f000258">living the life which I have described,</span>
   <span id="f000259">we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and position.</span>
   <span id="f000260">We had,</span>
   <span id="f000261">however,</span>
   <span id="f000262">an aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000263">my mother’s maiden sister,</span>
   <span id="f000264">Miss Honoria Westphail,</span>
   <span id="f000265">who lives near Harrow,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and we were occasionally allowed to pay short visits at this lady’s house.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Julia went there at Christmas two years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and met there a half-pay major of marines,</span>
   <span id="f000269">to whom she became engaged.</span>
   <span id="f000270">My stepfather learned of the engagement when my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage;</span>
   <span id="f000271">but within a fortnight of the day which had been fixed for the wedding,</span>
   <span id="f000272">the terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only companion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed and his head sunk in a cushion,</span>
   <span id="f000274">but he half opened his lids now and glanced across at his visitor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“Pray be precise as to details,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">“It is easy for me to be so,</span>
   <span id="f000277">for every event of that dreadful time is seared into my memory.</span>
   <span id="f000278">The manor-house is,</span>
   <span id="f000279">as I have already said,</span>
   <span id="f000280">very old,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and only one wing is now inhabited.</span>
   <span id="f000282">The bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor,</span>
   <span id="f000283">the sitting-rooms being in the central block of the buildings.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Of these bedrooms the first is Dr.&#160;Roylott’s,</span>
   <span id="f000285">the second my sister’s,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and the third my own.</span>
   <span id="f000287">There is no communication between them,</span>
   <span id="f000288">but they all open out into the same corridor.</span>
   <span id="f000289">Do I make myself plain?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">“Perfectly so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn.</span>
   <span id="f000292">That fatal night Dr.&#160;Roylott had gone to his room early,</span>
   <span id="f000293">though we knew that he had not retired to rest,</span>
   <span id="f000294">for my sister was troubled by the smell of the strong Indian cigars which it was his custom to smoke.</span>
   <span id="f000295">She left her room,</span>
   <span id="f000296">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and came into mine,</span>
   <span id="f000298">where she sat for some time,</span>
   <span id="f000299">chatting about her approaching wedding.</span>
   <span id="f000300">At eleven o’clock she rose to leave me,</span>
   <span id="f000301">but she paused at the door and looked back.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">’Tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000303">Helen,’ said she,</span>
   <span id="f000304">’have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">’Never,’ said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">’I suppose that you could not possibly whistle,</span>
   <span id="f000307">yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000308">in your sleep?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">’Certainly not.</span>
   <span id="f000310">But why?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">’Because during the last few nights I have always,</span>
   <span id="f000312">about three in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000313">heard a low,</span>
   <span id="f000314">clear whistle.</span>
   <span id="f000315">I am a light sleeper,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and it has awakened me.</span>
   <span id="f000317">I cannot tell where it came from – perhaps from the next room,</span>
   <span id="f000318">perhaps from the lawn.</span>
   <span id="f000319">I thought that I would just ask you whether you had heard it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000321">I have not.</span>
   <span id="f000322">It must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">’Very likely.</span>
   <span id="f000324">And yet if it were on the lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000325">I wonder that you did not hear it also.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">’Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000327">but I sleep more heavily than you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000329">it is of no great consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000330">at any rate.’ She smiled back at me,</span>
   <span id="f000331">closed my door,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and a few moments later I heard her key turn in the lock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">“Indeed,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000334">“Was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“Always.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">“And why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“I think that I mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon.</span>
   <span id="f000338">We had no feeling of security unless our doors were locked.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000340">Pray proceed with your statement.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">“I could not sleep that night.</span>
   <span id="f000342">A vague feeling of impending misfortune impressed me.</span>
   <span id="f000343">My sister and I,</span>
   <span id="f000344">you will recollect,</span>
   <span id="f000345">were twins,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely allied.</span>
   <span id="f000347">It was a wild night.</span>
   <span id="f000348">The wind was howling outside,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and the rain was beating and splashing against the windows.</span>
   <span id="f000350">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000351">amid all the hubbub of the gale,</span>
   <span id="f000352">there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman.</span>
   <span id="f000353">I knew that it was my sister’s voice.</span>
   <span id="f000354">I sprang from my bed,</span>
   <span id="f000355">wrapped a shawl round me,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and rushed into the corridor.</span>
   <span id="f000357">As I opened my door I seemed to hear a low whistle,</span>
   <span id="f000358">such as my sister described,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and a few moments later a clanging sound,</span>
   <span id="f000360">as if a mass of metal had fallen.</span>
   <span id="f000361">As I ran down the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000362">my sister’s door was unlocked,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and revolved slowly upon its hinges.</span>
   <span id="f000364">I stared at it horror-stricken,</span>
   <span id="f000365">not knowing what was about to issue from it.</span>
   <span id="f000366">By the light of the corridor-lamp I saw my sister appear at the opening,</span>
   <span id="f000367">her face blanched with terror,</span>
   <span id="f000368">her hands groping for help,</span>
   <span id="f000369">her whole figure swaying to and fro like that of a drunkard.</span>
   <span id="f000370">I ran to her and threw my arms round her,</span>
   <span id="f000371">but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000372">She writhed as one who is in terrible pain,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed.</span>
   <span id="f000374">At first I thought that she had not recognised me,</span>
   <span id="f000375">but as I bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which I shall never forget,</span>
   <span id="f000376">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000377">my God!</span>
   <span id="f000378">Helen!</span>
   <span id="f000379">It was the band!</span>
   <span id="f000380">The speckled band!’ There was something else which she would fain have said,</span>
   <span id="f000381">and she stabbed with her finger into the air in the direction of the doctor’s room,</span>
   <span id="f000382">but a fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words.</span>
   <span id="f000383">I rushed out,</span>
   <span id="f000384">calling loudly for my stepfather,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and I met him hastening from his room in his dressing-gown.</span>
   <span id="f000386">When he reached my sister’s side she was unconscious,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid from the village,</span>
   <span id="f000388">all efforts were in vain,</span>
   <span id="f000389">for she slowly sank and died without having recovered her consciousness.</span>
   <span id="f000390">Such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“One moment,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000392">“are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound?</span>
   <span id="f000393">Could you swear to it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry.</span>
   <span id="f000395">It is my strong impression that I heard it,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and yet,</span>
   <span id="f000397">among the crash of the gale and the creaking of an old house,</span>
   <span id="f000398">I may possibly have been deceived.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“Was your sister dressed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000401">she was in her night-dress.</span>
   <span id="f000402">In her right hand was found the charred stump of a match,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and in her left a match-box.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the alarm took place.</span>
   <span id="f000405">That is important.</span>
   <span id="f000406">And what conclusions did the coroner come to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">“He investigated the case with great care,</span>
   <span id="f000408">for Dr.&#160;Roylott’s conduct had long been notorious in the county,</span>
   <span id="f000409">but he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death.</span>
   <span id="f000410">My evidence showed that the door had been fastened upon the inner side,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and the windows were blocked by old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars,</span>
   <span id="f000412">which were secured every night.</span>
   <span id="f000413">The walls were carefully sounded,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and were shown to be quite solid all round,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and the flooring was also thoroughly examined,</span>
   <span id="f000416">with the same result.</span>
   <span id="f000417">The chimney is wide,</span>
   <span id="f000418">but is barred up by four large staples.</span>
   <span id="f000419">It is certain,</span>
   <span id="f000420">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000421">that my sister was quite alone when she met her end.</span>
   <span id="f000422">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000423">there were no marks of any violence upon her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“How about poison?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“The doctors examined her for it,</span>
   <span id="f000426">but without success.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">“What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of,</span>
   <span id="f000428">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">“It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock,</span>
   <span id="f000430">though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">“Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000433">there are nearly always some there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and what did you gather from this allusion to a band – a speckled band?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000436">“Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of delirium,</span>
   <span id="f000437">sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people,</span>
   <span id="f000438">perhaps to these very gipsies in the plantation.</span>
   <span id="f000439">I do not know whether the spotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have suggested the strange adjective which she used.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000441">“These are very deep waters,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000442">“pray go on with your narrative.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">“Two years have passed since then,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and my life has been until lately lonelier than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000445">A month ago,</span>
   <span id="f000446">however,</span>
   <span id="f000447">a dear friend,</span>
   <span id="f000448">whom I have known for many years,</span>
   <span id="f000449">has done me the honour to ask my hand in marriage.</span>
   <span id="f000450">His name is Armitage – Percy Armitage – the second son of Mr.&#160;Armitage,</span>
   <span id="f000451">of Crane Water,</span>
   <span id="f000452">near Reading.</span>
   <span id="f000453">My stepfather has offered no opposition to the match,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and we are to be married in the course of the spring.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the building,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and my bedroom wall has been pierced,</span>
   <span id="f000457">so that I have had to move into the chamber in which my sister died,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and to sleep in the very bed in which she slept.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000460">then,</span>
   <span id="f000461">my thrill of terror when last night,</span>
   <span id="f000462">as I lay awake,</span>
   <span id="f000463">thinking over her terrible fate,</span>
   <span id="f000464">I suddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the herald of her own death.</span>
   <span id="f000465">I sprang up and lit the lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000466">but nothing was to be seen in the room.</span>
   <span id="f000467">I was too shaken to go to bed again,</span>
   <span id="f000468">however,</span>
   <span id="f000469">so I dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down,</span>
   <span id="f000471">got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn,</span>
   <span id="f000472">which is opposite,</span>
   <span id="f000473">and drove to Leatherhead,</span>
   <span id="f000474">from whence I have come on this morning with the one object of seeing you and asking your advice.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“You have done wisely,” said my friend.</span>
   <span id="f000476">“But have you told me all?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000478">all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">“Miss Roylott,</span>
   <span id="f000480">you have not.</span>
   <span id="f000481">You are screening your stepfather.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000483">what do you mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor’s knee.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Five little livid spots,</span>
   <span id="f000486">the marks of four fingers and a thumb,</span>
   <span id="f000487">were printed upon the white wrist.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“You have been cruelly used,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist.</span>
   <span id="f000490">“He is a hard man,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000491">“and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">There was a long silence,</span>
   <span id="f000493">during which Holmes leaned his chin upon his hands and stared into the crackling fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000494">“This is a very deep business,” he said at last.</span>
   <span id="f000495">“There are a thousand details which I should desire to know before I decide upon our course of action.</span>
   <span id="f000496">Yet we have not a moment to lose.</span>
   <span id="f000497">If we were to come to Stoke Moran to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000498">would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“As it happens,</span>
   <span id="f000500">he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some most important business.</span>
   <span id="f000501">It is probable that he will be away all day,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and that there would be nothing to disturb you.</span>
   <span id="f000503">We have a housekeeper now,</span>
   <span id="f000504">but she is old and foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and I could easily get her out of the way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">“Excellent.</span>
   <span id="f000507">You are not averse to this trip,</span>
   <span id="f000508">Watson?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">“By no means.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000510">“Then we shall both come.</span>
   <span id="f000511">What are you going to do yourself?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">“I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am in town.</span>
   <span id="f000513">But I shall return by the twelve o’clock train,</span>
   <span id="f000514">so as to be there in time for your coming.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">“And you may expect us early in the afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000516">I have myself some small business matters to attend to.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Will you not wait and breakfast?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000519">I must go.</span>
   <span id="f000520">My heart is lightened already since I have confided my trouble to you.</span>
   <span id="f000521">I shall look forward to seeing you again this afternoon.” She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">“And what do you think of it all,</span>
   <span id="f000523">Watson?” asked Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000524">leaning back in his chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000525">“It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“Dark enough and sinister enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">“Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are sound,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and that the door,</span>
   <span id="f000529">window,</span>
   <span id="f000530">and chimney are impassable,</span>
   <span id="f000531">then her sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her mysterious end.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“What becomes,</span>
   <span id="f000533">then,</span>
   <span id="f000534">of these nocturnal whistles,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">“I cannot think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000537">“When you combine the ideas of whistles at night,</span>
   <span id="f000538">the presence of a band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000539">the fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has an interest in preventing his stepdaughter’s marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000540">the dying allusion to a band,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and,</span>
   <span id="f000542">finally,</span>
   <span id="f000543">the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard a metallic clang,</span>
   <span id="f000544">which might have been caused by one of those metal bars that secured the shutters falling back into its place,</span>
   <span id="f000545">I think that there is good ground to think that the mystery may be cleared along those lines.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“But what,</span>
   <span id="f000547">then,</span>
   <span id="f000548">did the gipsies do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“I cannot imagine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">“I see many objections to any such theory.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">“And so do I.</span>
   <span id="f000552">It is precisely for that reason that we are going to Stoke Moran this day.</span>
   <span id="f000553">I want to see whether the objections are fatal,</span>
   <span id="f000554">or if they may be explained away.</span>
   <span id="f000555">But what in the name of the devil!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our door had been suddenly dashed open,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and that a huge man had framed himself in the aperture.</span>
   <span id="f000558">His costume was a peculiar mixture of the professional and of the agricultural,</span>
   <span id="f000559">having a black top-hat,</span>
   <span id="f000560">a long frock-coat,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and a pair of high gaiters,</span>
   <span id="f000562">with a hunting-crop swinging in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000563">So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000564">and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to side.</span>
   <span id="f000565">A large face,</span>
   <span id="f000566">seared with a thousand wrinkles,</span>
   <span id="f000567">burned yellow with the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000568">and marked with every evil passion,</span>
   <span id="f000569">was turned from one to the other of us,</span>
   <span id="f000570">while his deep-set,</span>
   <span id="f000571">bile-shot eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000572">and his high,</span>
   <span id="f000573">thin,</span>
   <span id="f000574">fleshless nose,</span>
   <span id="f000575">gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old bird of prey.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">“Which of you is Holmes?” asked this apparition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">“My name,</span>
   <span id="f000578">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000579">but you have the advantage of me,” said my companion quietly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000580">“I am Dr.&#160;Grimesby Roylott,</span>
   <span id="f000581">of Stoke Moran.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000582">“Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000583">Doctor,” said Holmes blandly.</span>
   <span id="f000584">“Pray take a seat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">“I will do nothing of the kind.</span>
   <span id="f000586">My stepdaughter has been here.</span>
   <span id="f000587">I have traced her.</span>
   <span id="f000588">What has she been saying to you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">“It is a little cold for the time of the year,” said Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“What has she been saying to you?” screamed the old man furiously.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">“But I have heard that the crocuses promise well,” continued my companion imperturbably.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000593">You put me off,</span>
   <span id="f000594">do you?” said our new visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000595">taking a step forward and shaking his hunting-crop.</span>
   <span id="f000596">“I know you,</span>
   <span id="f000597">you scoundrel!</span>
   <span id="f000598">I have heard of you before.</span>
   <span id="f000599">You are Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000600">the meddler.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000601">My friend smiled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000602">“Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000603">the busybody!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000604">His smile broadened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">“Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000606">the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000607">Holmes chuckled heartily.</span>
   <span id="f000608">“Your conversation is most entertaining,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000609">“When you go out close the door,</span>
   <span id="f000610">for there is a decided draught.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000611">“I will go when I have said my say.</span>
   <span id="f000612">Don’t you dare to meddle with my affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000613">I know that Miss Stoner has been here.</span>
   <span id="f000614">I traced her!</span>
   <span id="f000615">I am a dangerous man to fall foul of!</span>
   <span id="f000616">See here.” He stepped swiftly forward,</span>
   <span id="f000617">seized the poker,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">“See that you keep yourself out of my grip,” he snarled,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">“He seems a very amiable person,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000622">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f000623">“I am not quite so bulky,</span>
   <span id="f000624">but if he had remained I might have shown him that my grip was not much more feeble than his own.” As he spoke he picked up the steel poker and,</span>
   <span id="f000625">with a sudden effort,</span>
   <span id="f000626">straightened it out again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000627">“Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official detective force!</span>
   <span id="f000628">This incident gives zest to our investigation,</span>
   <span id="f000629">however,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer from her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her.</span>
   <span id="f000631">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000632">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000633">we shall order breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000634">and afterwards I shall walk down to Doctors’ Commons,</span>
   <span id="f000635">where I hope to get some data which may help us in this matter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">It was nearly one o’clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his excursion.</span>
   <span id="f000637">He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper,</span>
   <span id="f000638">scrawled over with notes and figures.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">“I have seen the will of the deceased wife,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000640">“To determine its exact meaning I have been obliged to work out the present prices of the investments with which it is concerned.</span>
   <span id="f000641">The total income,</span>
   <span id="f000642">which at the time of the wife’s death was little short of 1100 pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000643">is now,</span>
   <span id="f000644">through the fall in agricultural prices,</span>
   <span id="f000645">not more than 750 pounds.</span>
   <span id="f000646">Each daughter can claim an income of 250 pounds,</span>
   <span id="f000647">in case of marriage.</span>
   <span id="f000648">It is evident,</span>
   <span id="f000649">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000650">that if both girls had married,</span>
   <span id="f000651">this beauty would have had a mere pittance,</span>
   <span id="f000652">while even one of them would cripple him to a very serious extent.</span>
   <span id="f000653">My morning’s work has not been wasted,</span>
   <span id="f000654">since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way of anything of the sort.</span>
   <span id="f000655">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000656">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000657">this is too serious for dawdling,</span>
   <span id="f000658">especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs;</span>
   <span id="f000659">so if you are ready,</span>
   <span id="f000660">we shall call a cab and drive to Waterloo.</span>
   <span id="f000661">I should be very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000662">An Eley’s No.</span>
   <span id="f000663">2 is an excellent argument with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots.</span>
   <span id="f000664">That and a tooth-brush are,</span>
   <span id="f000665">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000666">all that we need.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000667">At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for Leatherhead,</span>
   <span id="f000668">where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five miles through the lovely Surrey lanes.</span>
   <span id="f000669">It was a perfect day,</span>
   <span id="f000670">with a bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens.</span>
   <span id="f000671">The trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and the air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth.</span>
   <span id="f000673">To me at least there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged.</span>
   <span id="f000674">My companion sat in the front of the trap,</span>
   <span id="f000675">his arms folded,</span>
   <span id="f000676">his hat pulled down over his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and his chin sunk upon his breast,</span>
   <span id="f000678">buried in the deepest thought.</span>
   <span id="f000679">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000680">however,</span>
   <span id="f000681">he started,</span>
   <span id="f000682">tapped me on the shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000683">and pointed over the meadows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000684">“Look there!” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope,</span>
   <span id="f000686">thickening into a grove at the highest point.</span>
   <span id="f000687">From amid the branches there jutted out the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">“Stoke Moran?” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000689">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000690">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000691">that be the house of Dr.&#160;Grimesby Roylott,” remarked the driver.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">“There is some building going on there,” said Holmes;</span>
   <span id="f000693">“that is where we are going.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">“There’s the village,” said the driver,</span>
   <span id="f000695">pointing to a cluster of roofs some distance to the left;</span>
   <span id="f000696">“but if you want to get to the house,</span>
   <span id="f000697">you’ll find it shorter to get over this stile,</span>
   <span id="f000698">and so by the foot-path over the fields.</span>
   <span id="f000699">There it is,</span>
   <span id="f000700">where the lady is walking.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">“And the lady,</span>
   <span id="f000702">I fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000703">is Miss Stoner,” observed Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000704">shading his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000705">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000706">I think we had better do as you suggest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">We got off,</span>
   <span id="f000708">paid our fare,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and the trap rattled back on its way to Leatherhead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000710">“I thought it as well,” said Holmes as we climbed the stile,</span>
   <span id="f000711">“that this fellow should think we had come here as architects,</span>
   <span id="f000712">or on some definite business.</span>
   <span id="f000713">It may stop his gossip.</span>
   <span id="f000714">Good-afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000715">Miss Stoner.</span>
   <span id="f000716">You see that we have been as good as our word.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a face which spoke her joy.</span>
   <span id="f000718">“I have been waiting so eagerly for you,” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000719">shaking hands with us warmly.</span>
   <span id="f000720">“All has turned out splendidly.</span>
   <span id="f000721">Dr.&#160;Roylott has gone to town,</span>
   <span id="f000722">and it is unlikely that he will be back before evening.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">“We have had the pleasure of making the doctor’s acquaintance,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000724">and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred.</span>
   <span id="f000725">Miss Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000726">“Good heavens!” she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000727">“he has followed me,</span>
   <span id="f000728">then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">“So it appears.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">“He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him.</span>
   <span id="f000731">What will he say when he returns?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">“He must guard himself,</span>
   <span id="f000733">for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track.</span>
   <span id="f000734">You must lock yourself up from him to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000735">If he is violent,</span>
   <span id="f000736">we shall take you away to your aunt’s at Harrow.</span>
   <span id="f000737">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000738">we must make the best use of our time,</span>
   <span id="f000739">so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to examine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">The building was of grey,</span>
   <span id="f000741">lichen-blotched stone,</span>
   <span id="f000742">with a high central portion and two curving wings,</span>
   <span id="f000743">like the claws of a crab,</span>
   <span id="f000744">thrown out on each side.</span>
   <span id="f000745">In one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked with wooden boards,</span>
   <span id="f000746">while the roof was partly caved in,</span>
   <span id="f000747">a picture of ruin.</span>
   <span id="f000748">The central portion was in little better repair,</span>
   <span id="f000749">but the right-hand block was comparatively modern,</span>
   <span id="f000750">and the blinds in the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000751">with the blue smoke curling up from the chimneys,</span>
   <span id="f000752">showed that this was where the family resided.</span>
   <span id="f000753">Some scaffolding had been erected against the end wall,</span>
   <span id="f000754">and the stone-work had been broken into,</span>
   <span id="f000755">but there were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit.</span>
   <span id="f000756">Holmes walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep attention the outsides of the windows.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">“This,</span>
   <span id="f000758">I take it,</span>
   <span id="f000759">belongs to the room in which you used to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000760">the centre one to your sister’s,</span>
   <span id="f000761">and the one next to the main building to Dr.&#160;Roylott’s chamber?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">“Exactly so.</span>
   <span id="f000763">But I am now sleeping in the middle one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000764">“Pending the alterations,</span>
   <span id="f000765">as I understand.</span>
   <span id="f000766">By the way,</span>
   <span id="f000767">there does not seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">“There were none.</span>
   <span id="f000769">I believe that it was an excuse to move me from my room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000770">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000771">that is suggestive.</span>
   <span id="f000772">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000773">on the other side of this narrow wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open.</span>
   <span id="f000774">There are windows in it,</span>
   <span id="f000775">of course?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000776">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000777">but very small ones.</span>
   <span id="f000778">Too narrow for anyone to pass through.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">“As you both locked your doors at night,</span>
   <span id="f000780">your rooms were unapproachable from that side.</span>
   <span id="f000781">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000782">would you have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000783">Miss Stoner did so,</span>
   <span id="f000784">and Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000785">after a careful examination through the open window,</span>
   <span id="f000786">endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open,</span>
   <span id="f000787">but without success.</span>
   <span id="f000788">There was no slit through which a knife could be passed to raise the bar.</span>
   <span id="f000789">Then with his lens he tested the hinges,</span>
   <span id="f000790">but they were of solid iron,</span>
   <span id="f000791">built firmly into the massive masonry.</span>
   <span id="f000792">“Hum!” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000793">scratching his chin in some perplexity,</span>
   <span id="f000794">“my theory certainly presents some difficulties.</span>
   <span id="f000795">No one could pass these shutters if they were bolted.</span>
   <span id="f000796">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000797">we shall see if the inside throws any light upon the matter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000798">A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened.</span>
   <span id="f000799">Holmes refused to examine the third chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000800">so we passed at once to the second,</span>
   <span id="f000801">that in which Miss Stoner was now sleeping,</span>
   <span id="f000802">and in which her sister had met with her fate.</span>
   <span id="f000803">It was a homely little room,</span>
   <span id="f000804">with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace,</span>
   <span id="f000805">after the fashion of old country-houses.</span>
   <span id="f000806">A brown chest of drawers stood in one corner,</span>
   <span id="f000807">a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another,</span>
   <span id="f000808">and a dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window.</span>
   <span id="f000809">These articles,</span>
   <span id="f000810">with two small wicker-work chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000811">made up all the furniture in the room save for a square of Wilton carpet in the centre.</span>
   <span id="f000812">The boards round and the panelling of the walls were of brown,</span>
   <span id="f000813">worm-eaten oak,</span>
   <span id="f000814">so old and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000815">Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat silent,</span>
   <span id="f000816">while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000817">taking in every detail of the apartment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000818">“Where does that bell communicate with?” he asked at last pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000819">the tassel actually lying upon the pillow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">“It goes to the housekeeper’s room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">“It looks newer than the other things?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000823">it was only put there a couple of years ago.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000824">“Your sister asked for it,</span>
   <span id="f000825">I suppose?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000826">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000827">I never heard of her using it.</span>
   <span id="f000828">We used always to get what we wanted for ourselves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">“Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000830">it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there.</span>
   <span id="f000831">You will excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself as to this floor.” He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand and crawled swiftly backward and forward,</span>
   <span id="f000832">examining minutely the cracks between the boards.</span>
   <span id="f000833">Then he did the same with the wood-work with which the chamber was panelled.</span>
   <span id="f000834">Finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000835">Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000837">it’s a dummy,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000838">“Won’t it ring?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000840">it is not even attached to a wire.</span>
   <span id="f000841">This is very interesting.</span>
   <span id="f000842">You can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where the little opening for the ventilator is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000843">“How very absurd!</span>
   <span id="f000844">I never noticed that before.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000845">“Very strange!” muttered Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000846">pulling at the rope.</span>
   <span id="f000847">“There are one or two very singular points about this room.</span>
   <span id="f000848">For example,</span>
   <span id="f000849">what a fool a builder must be to open a ventilator into another room,</span>
   <span id="f000850">when,</span>
   <span id="f000851">with the same trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000852">he might have communicated with the outside air!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000853">“That is also quite modern,” said the lady.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000854">“Done about the same time as the bell-rope?” remarked Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000856">there were several little changes carried out about that time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000857">“They seem to have been of a most interesting character – dummy bell-ropes,</span>
   <span id="f000858">and ventilators which do not ventilate.</span>
   <span id="f000859">With your permission,</span>
   <span id="f000860">Miss Stoner,</span>
   <span id="f000861">we shall now carry our researches into the inner apartment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000862">Dr.&#160;Grimesby Roylott’s chamber was larger than that of his step-daughter,</span>
   <span id="f000863">but was as plainly furnished.</span>
   <span id="f000864">A camp-bed,</span>
   <span id="f000865">a small wooden shelf full of books,</span>
   <span id="f000866">mostly of a technical character,</span>
   <span id="f000867">an armchair beside the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000868">a plain wooden chair against the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000869">a round table,</span>
   <span id="f000870">and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye.</span>
   <span id="f000871">Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the keenest interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">“What’s in here?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000873">tapping the safe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000874">“My stepfather’s business papers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000875">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000876">you have seen inside,</span>
   <span id="f000877">then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000878">“Only once,</span>
   <span id="f000879">some years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000880">I remember that it was full of papers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000881">“There isn’t a cat in it,</span>
   <span id="f000882">for example?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000883">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000884">What a strange idea!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000885">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000886">look at this!” He took up a small saucer of milk which stood on the top of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000887">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000888">we don’t keep a cat.</span>
   <span id="f000889">But there is a cheetah and a baboon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000891">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000892">of course!</span>
   <span id="f000893">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000894">a cheetah is just a big cat,</span>
   <span id="f000895">and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants,</span>
   <span id="f000896">I daresay.</span>
   <span id="f000897">There is one point which I should wish to determine.” He squatted down in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the greatest attention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000898">“Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000899">That is quite settled,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000900">rising and putting his lens in his pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000901">“Hullo!</span>
   <span id="f000902">Here is something interesting!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000903">The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one corner of the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000904">The lash,</span>
   <span id="f000905">however,</span>
   <span id="f000906">was curled upon itself and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000907">“What do you make of that,</span>
   <span id="f000908">Watson?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000909">“It’s a common enough lash.</span>
   <span id="f000910">But I don’t know why it should be tied.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">“That is not quite so common,</span>
   <span id="f000912">is it?</span>
   <span id="f000913">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000914">me!</span>
   <span id="f000915">it’s a wicked world,</span>
   <span id="f000916">and when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst of all.</span>
   <span id="f000917">I think that I have seen enough now,</span>
   <span id="f000918">Miss Stoner,</span>
   <span id="f000919">and with your permission we shall walk out upon the lawn.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000920">I had never seen my friend’s face so grim or his brow so dark as it was when we turned from the scene of this investigation.</span>
   <span id="f000921">We had walked several times up and down the lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000922">neither Miss Stoner nor myself liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his reverie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000923">“It is very essential,</span>
   <span id="f000924">Miss Stoner,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000925">“that you should absolutely follow my advice in every respect.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000926">“I shall most certainly do so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000927">“The matter is too serious for any hesitation.</span>
   <span id="f000928">Your life may depend upon your compliance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000929">“I assure you that I am in your hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000930">“In the first place,</span>
   <span id="f000931">both my friend and I must spend the night in your room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000932">Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000933">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000934">it must be so.</span>
   <span id="f000935">Let me explain.</span>
   <span id="f000936">I believe that that is the village inn over there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000938">that is the Crown.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">“Very good.</span>
   <span id="f000940">Your windows would be visible from there?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">“Certainly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">“You must confine yourself to your room,</span>
   <span id="f000943">on pretence of a headache,</span>
   <span id="f000944">when your stepfather comes back.</span>
   <span id="f000945">Then when you hear him retire for the night,</span>
   <span id="f000946">you must open the shutters of your window,</span>
   <span id="f000947">undo the hasp,</span>
   <span id="f000948">put your lamp there as a signal to us,</span>
   <span id="f000949">and then withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want into the room which you used to occupy.</span>
   <span id="f000950">I have no doubt that,</span>
   <span id="f000951">in spite of the repairs,</span>
   <span id="f000952">you could manage there for one night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000954">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000955">easily.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000956">“The rest you will leave in our hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000957">“But what will you do?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000958">“We shall spend the night in your room,</span>
   <span id="f000959">and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000960">“I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000961">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000962">that you have already made up your mind,” said Miss Stoner,</span>
   <span id="f000963">laying her hand upon my companion’s sleeve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000964">“Perhaps I have.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000965">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000966">for pity’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000967">tell me what was the cause of my sister’s death.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000968">“I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000969">“You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct,</span>
   <span id="f000970">and if she died from some sudden fright.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000971">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000972">I do not think so.</span>
   <span id="f000973">I think that there was probably some more tangible cause.</span>
   <span id="f000974">And now,</span>
   <span id="f000975">Miss Stoner,</span>
   <span id="f000976">we must leave you for if Dr.&#160;Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000977">Good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f000978">and be brave,</span>
   <span id="f000979">for if you will do what I have told you,</span>
   <span id="f000980">you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and sitting-room at the Crown Inn.</span>
   <span id="f000982">They were on the upper floor,</span>
   <span id="f000983">and from our window we could command a view of the avenue gate,</span>
   <span id="f000984">and of the inhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House.</span>
   <span id="f000985">At dusk we saw Dr.&#160;Grimesby Roylott drive past,</span>
   <span id="f000986">his huge form looming up beside the little figure of the lad who drove him.</span>
   <span id="f000987">The boy had some slight difficulty in undoing the heavy iron gates,</span>
   <span id="f000988">and we heard the hoarse roar of the doctor’s voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fists at him.</span>
   <span id="f000989">The trap drove on,</span>
   <span id="f000990">and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of the sitting-rooms.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000991">“Do you know,</span>
   <span id="f000992">Watson,” said Holmes as we sat together in the gathering darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000993">“I have really some scruples as to taking you to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000994">There is a distinct element of danger.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000995">“Can I be of assistance?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000996">“Your presence might be invaluable.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000997">“Then I shall certainly come.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000998">“It is very kind of you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000999">“You speak of danger.</span>
   <span id="f001000">You have evidently seen more in these rooms than was visible to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001001">“No,</span>
   <span id="f001002">but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more.</span>
   <span id="f001003">I imagine that you saw all that I did.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001004">“I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope,</span>
   <span id="f001005">and what purpose that could answer I confess is more than I can imagine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001006">“You saw the ventilator,</span>
   <span id="f001007">too?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001008">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f001009">but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms.</span>
   <span id="f001010">It was so small that a rat could hardly pass through.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001011">“I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to Stoke Moran.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001012">“My dear Holmes!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001014">yes,</span>
   <span id="f001015">I did.</span>
   <span id="f001016">You remember in her statement she said that her sister could smell Dr.&#160;Roylott’s cigar.</span>
   <span id="f001017">Now,</span>
   <span id="f001018">of course that suggested at once that there must be a communication between the two rooms.</span>
   <span id="f001019">It could only be a small one,</span>
   <span id="f001020">or it would have been remarked upon at the coroner’s inquiry.</span>
   <span id="f001021">I deduced a ventilator.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001022">“But what harm can there be in that?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001023">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001024">there is at least a curious coincidence of dates.</span>
   <span id="f001025">A ventilator is made,</span>
   <span id="f001026">a cord is hung,</span>
   <span id="f001027">and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies.</span>
   <span id="f001028">Does not that strike you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001029">“I cannot as yet see any connection.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001030">“Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001031">“No.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001032">“It was clamped to the floor.</span>
   <span id="f001033">Did you ever see a bed fastened like that before?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001034">“I cannot say that I have.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001035">“The lady could not move her bed.</span>
   <span id="f001036">It must always be in the same relative position to the ventilator and to the rope – or so we may call it,</span>
   <span id="f001037">since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001038">“Holmes,” I cried,</span>
   <span id="f001039">“I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at.</span>
   <span id="f001040">We are only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001041">“Subtle enough and horrible enough.</span>
   <span id="f001042">When a doctor does go wrong he is the first of criminals.</span>
   <span id="f001043">He has nerve and he has knowledge.</span>
   <span id="f001044">Palmer and Pritchard were among the heads of their profession.</span>
   <span id="f001045">This man strikes even deeper,</span>
   <span id="f001046">but I think,</span>
   <span id="f001047">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f001048">that we shall be able to strike deeper still.</span>
   <span id="f001049">But we shall have horrors enough before the night is over;</span>
   <span id="f001050">for goodness’ sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to something more cheerful.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001051">About nine o’clock the light among the trees was extinguished,</span>
   <span id="f001052">and all was dark in the direction of the Manor House.</span>
   <span id="f001053">Two hours passed slowly away,</span>
   <span id="f001054">and then,</span>
   <span id="f001055">suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f001056">just at the stroke of eleven,</span>
   <span id="f001057">a single bright light shone out right in front of us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001058">“That is our signal,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001059">springing to his feet;</span>
   <span id="f001060">“it comes from the middle window.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001061">As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord,</span>
   <span id="f001062">explaining that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f001063">and that it was possible that we might spend the night there.</span>
   <span id="f001064">A moment later we were out on the dark road,</span>
   <span id="f001065">a chill wind blowing in our faces,</span>
   <span id="f001066">and one yellow light twinkling in front of us through the gloom to guide us on our sombre errand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001067">There was little difficulty in entering the grounds,</span>
   <span id="f001068">for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall.</span>
   <span id="f001069">Making our way among the trees,</span>
   <span id="f001070">we reached the lawn,</span>
   <span id="f001071">crossed it,</span>
   <span id="f001072">and were about to enter through the window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed to be a hideous and distorted child,</span>
   <span id="f001073">who threw itself upon the grass with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001074">“My God!” I whispered;</span>
   <span id="f001075">“did you see it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001076">Holmes was for the moment as startled as I.</span>
   <span id="f001077">His hand closed like a vice upon my wrist in his agitation.</span>
   <span id="f001078">Then he broke into a low laugh and put his lips to my ear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001079">“It is a nice household,” he murmured.</span>
   <span id="f001080">“That is the baboon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001081">I had forgotten the strange pets which the doctor affected.</span>
   <span id="f001082">There was a cheetah,</span>
   <span id="f001083">too;</span>
   <span id="f001084">perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders at any moment.</span>
   <span id="f001085">I confess that I felt easier in my mind when,</span>
   <span id="f001086">after following Holmes’ example and slipping off my shoes,</span>
   <span id="f001087">I found myself inside the bedroom.</span>
   <span id="f001088">My companion noiselessly closed the shutters,</span>
   <span id="f001089">moved the lamp onto the table,</span>
   <span id="f001090">and cast his eyes round the room.</span>
   <span id="f001091">All was as we had seen it in the daytime.</span>
   <span id="f001092">Then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of his hand,</span>
   <span id="f001093">he whispered into my ear again so gently that it was all that I could do to distinguish the words:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001094">“The least sound would be fatal to our plans.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001095">I nodded to show that I had heard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001096">“We must sit without light.</span>
   <span id="f001097">He would see it through the ventilator.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001098">I nodded again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001099">“Do not go asleep;</span>
   <span id="f001100">your very life may depend upon it.</span>
   <span id="f001101">Have your pistol ready in case we should need it.</span>
   <span id="f001102">I will sit on the side of the bed,</span>
   <span id="f001103">and you in that chair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001104">I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001105">Holmes had brought up a long thin cane,</span>
   <span id="f001106">and this he placed upon the bed beside him.</span>
   <span id="f001107">By it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle.</span>
   <span id="f001108">Then he turned down the lamp,</span>
   <span id="f001109">and we were left in darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001110">How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil?</span>
   <span id="f001111">I could not hear a sound,</span>
   <span id="f001112">not even the drawing of a breath,</span>
   <span id="f001113">and yet I knew that my companion sat open-eyed,</span>
   <span id="f001114">within a few feet of me,</span>
   <span id="f001115">in the same state of nervous tension in which I was myself.</span>
   <span id="f001116">The shutters cut off the least ray of light,</span>
   <span id="f001117">and we waited in absolute darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001118">From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird,</span>
   <span id="f001119">and once at our very window a long drawn catlike whine,</span>
   <span id="f001120">which told us that the cheetah was indeed at liberty.</span>
   <span id="f001121">Far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock,</span>
   <span id="f001122">which boomed out every quarter of an hour.</span>
   <span id="f001123">How long they seemed,</span>
   <span id="f001124">those quarters!</span>
   <span id="f001125">Twelve struck,</span>
   <span id="f001126">and one and two and three,</span>
   <span id="f001127">and still we sat waiting silently for whatever might befall.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001128">Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the direction of the ventilator,</span>
   <span id="f001129">which vanished immediately,</span>
   <span id="f001130">but was succeeded by a strong smell of burning oil and heated metal.</span>
   <span id="f001131">Someone in the next room had lit a dark-lantern.</span>
   <span id="f001132">I heard a gentle sound of movement,</span>
   <span id="f001133">and then all was silent once more,</span>
   <span id="f001134">though the smell grew stronger.</span>
   <span id="f001135">For half an hour I sat with straining ears.</span>
   <span id="f001136">Then suddenly another sound became audible – a very gentle,</span>
   <span id="f001137">soothing sound,</span>
   <span id="f001138">like that of a small jet of steam escaping continually from a kettle.</span>
   <span id="f001139">The instant that we heard it,</span>
   <span id="f001140">Holmes sprang from the bed,</span>
   <span id="f001141">struck a match,</span>
   <span id="f001142">and lashed furiously with his cane at the bell-pull.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001143">“You see it,</span>
   <span id="f001144">Watson?” he yelled.</span>
   <span id="f001145">“You see it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001146">But I saw nothing.</span>
   <span id="f001147">At the moment when Holmes struck the light I heard a low,</span>
   <span id="f001148">clear whistle,</span>
   <span id="f001149">but the sudden glare flashing into my weary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which my friend lashed so savagely.</span>
   <span id="f001150">I could,</span>
   <span id="f001151">however,</span>
   <span id="f001152">see that his face was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing.</span>
   <span id="f001153">He had ceased to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator when suddenly there broke from the silence of the night the most horrible cry to which I have ever listened.</span>
   <span id="f001154">It swelled up louder and louder,</span>
   <span id="f001155">a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled in the one dreadful shriek.</span>
   <span id="f001156">They say that away down in the village,</span>
   <span id="f001157">and even in the distant parsonage,</span>
   <span id="f001158">that cry raised the sleepers from their beds.</span>
   <span id="f001159">It struck cold to our hearts,</span>
   <span id="f001160">and I stood gazing at Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001161">and he at me,</span>
   <span id="f001162">until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence from which it rose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001163">“What can it mean?” I gasped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001164">“It means that it is all over,” Holmes answered.</span>
   <span id="f001165">“And perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f001166">after all,</span>
   <span id="f001167">it is for the best.</span>
   <span id="f001168">Take your pistol,</span>
   <span id="f001169">and we will enter Dr.&#160;Roylott’s room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001170">With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor.</span>
   <span id="f001171">Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply from within.</span>
   <span id="f001172">Then he turned the handle and entered,</span>
   <span id="f001173">I at his heels,</span>
   <span id="f001174">with the cocked pistol in my hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001175">It was a singular sight which met our eyes.</span>
   <span id="f001176">On the table stood a dark-lantern with the shutter half open,</span>
   <span id="f001177">throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the iron safe,</span>
   <span id="f001178">the door of which was ajar.</span>
   <span id="f001179">Beside this table,</span>
   <span id="f001180">on the wooden chair,</span>
   <span id="f001181">sat Dr.&#160;Grimesby Roylott clad in a long grey dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f001182">his bare ankles protruding beneath,</span>
   <span id="f001183">and his feet thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers.</span>
   <span id="f001184">Across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day.</span>
   <span id="f001185">His chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful,</span>
   <span id="f001186">rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling.</span>
   <span id="f001187">Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band,</span>
   <span id="f001188">with brownish speckles,</span>
   <span id="f001189">which seemed to be bound tightly round his head.</span>
   <span id="f001190">As we entered he made neither sound nor motion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001191">“The band!</span>
   <span id="f001192">the speckled band!” whispered Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001193">I took a step forward.</span>
   <span id="f001194">In an instant his strange headgear began to move,</span>
   <span id="f001195">and there reared itself from among his hair the squat diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001196">“It is a swamp adder!” cried Holmes;</span>
   <span id="f001197">“the deadliest snake in India.</span>
   <span id="f001198">He has died within ten seconds of being bitten.</span>
   <span id="f001199">Violence does,</span>
   <span id="f001200">in truth,</span>
   <span id="f001201">recoil upon the violent,</span>
   <span id="f001202">and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another.</span>
   <span id="f001203">Let us thrust this creature back into its den,</span>
   <span id="f001204">and we can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of shelter and let the county police know what has happened.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001205">As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man’s lap,</span>
   <span id="f001206">and throwing the noose round the reptile’s neck he drew it from its horrid perch and,</span>
   <span id="f001207">carrying it at arm’s length,</span>
   <span id="f001208">threw it into the iron safe,</span>
   <span id="f001209">which he closed upon it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001210">Such are the true facts of the death of Dr.&#160;Grimesby Roylott,</span>
   <span id="f001211">of Stoke Moran.</span>
   <span id="f001212">It is not necessary that I should prolong a narrative which has already run to too great a length by telling how we broke the sad news to the terrified girl,</span>
   <span id="f001213">how we conveyed her by the morning train to the care of her good aunt at Harrow,</span>
   <span id="f001214">of how the slow process of official inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor met his fate while indiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet.</span>
   <span id="f001215">The little which I had yet to learn of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled back next day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001216">“I had,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f001217">"come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which shows,</span>
   <span id="f001218">my dear Watson,</span>
   <span id="f001219">how dangerous it always is to reason from insufficient data.</span>
   <span id="f001220">The presence of the gipsies,</span>
   <span id="f001221">and the use of the word ’band,’ which was used by the poor girl,</span>
   <span id="f001222">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f001223">to explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by the light of her match,</span>
   <span id="f001224">were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent.</span>
   <span id="f001225">I can only claim the merit that I instantly reconsidered my position when,</span>
   <span id="f001226">however,</span>
   <span id="f001227">it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door.</span>
   <span id="f001228">My attention was speedily drawn,</span>
   <span id="f001229">as I have already remarked to you,</span>
   <span id="f001230">to this ventilator,</span>
   <span id="f001231">and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed.</span>
   <span id="f001232">The discovery that this was a dummy,</span>
   <span id="f001233">and that the bed was clamped to the floor,</span>
   <span id="f001234">instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was there as a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed.</span>
   <span id="f001235">The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me,</span>
   <span id="f001236">and when I coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a supply of creatures from India,</span>
   <span id="f001237">I felt that I was probably on the right track.</span>
   <span id="f001238">The idea of using a form of poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern training.</span>
   <span id="f001239">The rapidity with which such a poison would take effect would also,</span>
   <span id="f001240">from his point of view,</span>
   <span id="f001241">be an advantage.</span>
   <span id="f001242">It would be a sharp-eyed coroner,</span>
   <span id="f001243">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f001244">who could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had done their work.</span>
   <span id="f001245">Then I thought of the whistle.</span>
   <span id="f001246">Of course he must recall the snake before the morning light revealed it to the victim.</span>
   <span id="f001247">He had trained it,</span>
   <span id="f001248">probably by the use of the milk which we saw,</span>
   <span id="f001249">to return to him when summoned.</span>
   <span id="f001250">He would put it through this ventilator at the hour that he thought best,</span>
   <span id="f001251">with the certainty that it would crawl down the rope and land on the bed.</span>
   <span id="f001252">It might or might not bite the occupant,</span>
   <span id="f001253">perhaps she might escape every night for a week,</span>
   <span id="f001254">but sooner or later she must fall a victim.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001255">“I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his room.</span>
   <span id="f001256">An inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habit of standing on it,</span>
   <span id="f001257">which of course would be necessary in order that he should reach the ventilator.</span>
   <span id="f001258">The sight of the safe,</span>
   <span id="f001259">the saucer of milk,</span>
   <span id="f001260">and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which may have remained.</span>
   <span id="f001261">The metallic clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant.</span>
   <span id="f001262">Having once made up my mind,</span>
   <span id="f001263">you know the steps which I took in order to put the matter to the proof.</span>
   <span id="f001264">I heard the creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also,</span>
   <span id="f001265">and I instantly lit the light and attacked it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001266">“With the result of driving it through the ventilator.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001267">“And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the other side.</span>
   <span id="f001268">Some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its snakish temper,</span>
   <span id="f001269">so that it flew upon the first person it saw.</span>
   <span id="f001270">In this way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr.&#160;Grimesby Roylott’s death,</span>
   <span id="f001271">and I cannot say that it is likely to weigh very heavily upon my conscience.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

