<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">It was many years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000003">Hadleyburg was the most honest and upright town in all the region round about.</span>
   <span id="f000004">It had kept that reputation unsmirched during three generations,</span>
   <span id="f000005">and was prouder of it than of any other of its possessions.</span>
   <span id="f000006">It was so proud of it,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and so anxious to insure its perpetuation,</span>
   <span id="f000008">that it began to teach the principles of honest dealing to its babies in the cradle,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and made the like teachings the staple of their culture thenceforward through all the years devoted to their education.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000011">throughout the formative years temptations were kept out of the way of the young people,</span>
   <span id="f000012">so that their honesty could have every chance to harden and solidify,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and become a part of their very bone.</span>
   <span id="f000014">The neighbouring towns were jealous of this honourable supremacy,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and affected to sneer at Hadleyburg’s pride in it and call it vanity;</span>
   <span id="f000016">but all the same they were obliged to acknowledge that Hadleyburg was in reality an incorruptible town;</span>
   <span id="f000017">and if pressed they would also acknowledge that the mere fact that a young man hailed from Hadleyburg was all the recommendation he needed when he went forth from his natal town to seek for responsible employment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">But at last,</span>
   <span id="f000019">in the drift of time,</span>
   <span id="f000020">Hadleyburg had the ill luck to offend a passing stranger – possibly without knowing it,</span>
   <span id="f000021">certainly without caring,</span>
   <span id="f000022">for Hadleyburg was sufficient unto itself,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and cared not a rap for strangers or their opinions.</span>
   <span id="f000024">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000025">it would have been well to make an exception in this one’s case,</span>
   <span id="f000026">for he was a bitter man,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and revengeful.</span>
   <span id="f000028">All through his wanderings during a whole year he kept his injury in mind,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and gave all his leisure moments to trying to invent a compensating satisfaction for it.</span>
   <span id="f000030">He contrived many plans,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and all of them were good,</span>
   <span id="f000032">but none of them was quite sweeping enough:</span>
   <span id="f000033">the poorest of them would hurt a great many individuals,</span>
   <span id="f000034">but what he wanted was a plan which would comprehend the entire town,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and not let so much as one person escape unhurt.</span>
   <span id="f000036">At last he had a fortunate idea,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and when it fell into his brain it lit up his whole head with an evil joy.</span>
   <span id="f000038">He began to form a plan at once,</span>
   <span id="f000039">saying to himself “That is the thing to do – I will corrupt the town.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">Six months later he went to Hadleyburg,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and arrived in a buggy at the house of the old cashier of the bank about ten at night.</span>
   <span id="f000042">He got a sack out of the buggy,</span>
   <span id="f000043">shouldered it,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and staggered with it through the cottage yard,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and knocked at the door.</span>
   <span id="f000046">A woman’s voice said “Come in,” and he entered,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and set his sack behind the stove in the parlour,</span>
   <span id="f000048">saying politely to the old lady who sat reading the “Missionary Herald” by the lamp:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">“Pray keep your seat,</span>
   <span id="f000050">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000051">I will not disturb you.</span>
   <span id="f000052">There – now it is pretty well concealed;</span>
   <span id="f000053">one would hardly know it was there.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Can I see your husband a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000055">madam?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">No,</span>
   <span id="f000057">he was gone to Brixton,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and might not return before morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000060">madam,</span>
   <span id="f000061">it is no matter.</span>
   <span id="f000062">I merely wanted to leave that sack in his care,</span>
   <span id="f000063">to be delivered to the rightful owner when he shall be found.</span>
   <span id="f000064">I am a stranger;</span>
   <span id="f000065">he does not know me;</span>
   <span id="f000066">I am merely passing through the town to-night to discharge a matter which has been long in my mind.</span>
   <span id="f000067">My errand is now completed,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and I go pleased and a little proud,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and you will never see me again.</span>
   <span id="f000070">There is a paper attached to the sack which will explain everything.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000072">madam.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">The old lady was afraid of the mysterious big stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and was glad to see him go.</span>
   <span id="f000075">But her curiosity was roused,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and she went straight to the sack and brought away the paper.</span>
   <span id="f000077">It began as follows:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000078">“TO BE PUBLISHED,</span>
   <span id="f000079">or,</span>
   <span id="f000080">the right man sought out by private inquiry – either will answer.</span>
   <span id="f000081">This sack contains gold coin weighing a hundred and sixty pounds four ounces – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000082">“Mercy on us,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and the door not locked!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">Mrs.&#160;Richards flew to it all in a tremble and locked it,</span>
   <span id="f000085">then pulled down the window-shades and stood frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000086">worried,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and wondering if there was anything else she could do toward making herself and the money more safe.</span>
   <span id="f000088">She listened awhile for burglars,</span>
   <span id="f000089">then surrendered to curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and went back to the lamp and finished reading the paper:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000091">I am a foreigner,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and am presently going back to my own country,</span>
   <span id="f000093">to remain there permanently.</span>
   <span id="f000094">I am grateful to America for what I have received at her hands during my long stay under her flag;</span>
   <span id="f000095">and to one of her citizens – a citizen of Hadleyburg – I am especially grateful for a great kindness done me a year or two ago.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Two great kindnesses in fact.</span>
   <span id="f000097">I will explain.</span>
   <span id="f000098">I was a gambler.</span>
   <span id="f000099">I say I WAS.</span>
   <span id="f000100">I was a ruined gambler.</span>
   <span id="f000101">I arrived in this village at night,</span>
   <span id="f000102">hungry and without a penny.</span>
   <span id="f000103">I asked for help – in the dark;</span>
   <span id="f000104">I was ashamed to beg in the light.</span>
   <span id="f000105">I begged of the right man.</span>
   <span id="f000106">He gave me twenty dollars – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000107">he gave me life,</span>
   <span id="f000108">as I considered it.</span>
   <span id="f000109">He also gave me fortune;</span>
   <span id="f000110">for out of that money I have made myself rich at the gaming-table.</span>
   <span id="f000111">And finally,</span>
   <span id="f000112">a remark which he made to me has remained with me to this day,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and has at last conquered me;</span>
   <span id="f000114">and in conquering has saved the remnant of my morals:</span>
   <span id="f000115">I shall gamble no more.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Now I have no idea who that man was,</span>
   <span id="f000117">but I want him found,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and I want him to have this money,</span>
   <span id="f000119">to give away,</span>
   <span id="f000120">throw away,</span>
   <span id="f000121">or keep,</span>
   <span id="f000122">as he pleases.</span>
   <span id="f000123">It is merely my way of testifying my gratitude to him.</span>
   <span id="f000124">If I could stay,</span>
   <span id="f000125">I would find him myself;</span>
   <span id="f000126">but no matter,</span>
   <span id="f000127">he will be found.</span>
   <span id="f000128">This is an honest town,</span>
   <span id="f000129">an incorruptible town,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and I know I can trust it without fear.</span>
   <span id="f000131">This man can be identified by the remark which he made to me;</span>
   <span id="f000132">I feel persuaded that he will remember it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">And now my plan is this:</span>
   <span id="f000134">If you prefer to conduct the inquiry privately,</span>
   <span id="f000135">do so.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Tell the contents of this present writing to any one who is likely to be the right man.</span>
   <span id="f000137">If he shall answer,</span>
   <span id="f000138">’I am the man;</span>
   <span id="f000139">the remark I made was so-and-so,’ apply the test – to wit:</span>
   <span id="f000140">open the sack,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and in it you will find a sealed envelope containing that remark.</span>
   <span id="f000142">If the remark mentioned by the candidate tallies with it,</span>
   <span id="f000143">give him the money,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and ask no further questions,</span>
   <span id="f000145">for he is certainly the right man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">“But if you shall prefer a public inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000147">then publish this present writing in the local paper – with these instructions added,</span>
   <span id="f000148">to wit:</span>
   <span id="f000149">Thirty days from now,</span>
   <span id="f000150">let the candidate appear at the town-hall at eight in the evening</span>
   <span id="f000151">(Friday),</span>
   <span id="f000152">and hand his remark,</span>
   <span id="f000153">in a sealed envelope,</span>
   <span id="f000154">to the Rev.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Mr.&#160;Burgess</span>
   <span id="f000156">(if he will be kind enough to act);</span>
   <span id="f000157">and let Mr.&#160;Burgess there and then destroy the seals of the sack,</span>
   <span id="f000158">open it,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and see if the remark is correct:</span>
   <span id="f000160">if correct,</span>
   <span id="f000161">let the money be delivered,</span>
   <span id="f000162">with my sincere gratitude,</span>
   <span id="f000163">to my benefactor thus identified.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000164">Mrs.&#160;Richards sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000165">gently quivering with excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and was soon lost in thinkings – after this pattern:</span>
   <span id="f000167">“What a strange thing it is!…</span>
   <span id="f000168">And what a fortune for that kind man who set his bread afloat upon the waters!…</span>
   <span id="f000169">If it had only been my husband that did it!</span>
   <span id="f000170">– for we are so poor,</span>
   <span id="f000171">so old and poor!…</span>
   <span id="f000172">” Then,</span>
   <span id="f000173">with a sigh – “But it was not my Edward;</span>
   <span id="f000174">no,</span>
   <span id="f000175">it was not he that gave a stranger twenty dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000176">It is a pity too;</span>
   <span id="f000177">I see it now…</span>
   <span id="f000178">” Then,</span>
   <span id="f000179">with a shudder – “But it is <em>gamblers</em>’ money!</span>
   <span id="f000180">the wages of sin;</span>
   <span id="f000181">we couldn’t take it;</span>
   <span id="f000182">we couldn’t touch it.</span>
   <span id="f000183">I don’t like to be near it;</span>
   <span id="f000184">it seems a defilement.” She moved to a farther chair…</span>
   <span id="f000185">“I wish Edward would come,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and take it to the bank;</span>
   <span id="f000187">a burglar might come at any moment;</span>
   <span id="f000188">it is dreadful to be here all alone with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">At eleven Mr.&#160;Richards arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and while his wife was saying “I am <em>so</em> glad you’ve come!” he was saying,</span>
   <span id="f000191">“I am so tired – tired clear out;</span>
   <span id="f000192">it is dreadful to be poor,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and have to make these dismal journeys at my time of life.</span>
   <span id="f000194">Always at the grind,</span>
   <span id="f000195">grind,</span>
   <span id="f000196">grind,</span>
   <span id="f000197">on a salary – another man’s slave,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and he sitting at home in his slippers,</span>
   <span id="f000199">rich and comfortable.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“I am so sorry for you,</span>
   <span id="f000201">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000202">you know that;</span>
   <span id="f000203">but be comforted;</span>
   <span id="f000204">we have our livelihood;</span>
   <span id="f000205">we have our good name – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000207">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and that is everything.</span>
   <span id="f000209">Don’t mind my talk – it’s just a moment’s irritation and doesn’t mean anything.</span>
   <span id="f000210">Kiss me – there,</span>
   <span id="f000211">it’s all gone now,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and I am not complaining any more.</span>
   <span id="f000213">What have you been getting?</span>
   <span id="f000214">What’s in the sack?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">Then his wife told him the great secret.</span>
   <span id="f000216">It dazed him for a moment;</span>
   <span id="f000217">then he said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“It weighs a hundred and sixty pounds?</span>
   <span id="f000219">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000220">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000221">it’s for-ty thou-sand dollars – think of it – a whole fortune!</span>
   <span id="f000222">Not ten men in this village are worth that much.</span>
   <span id="f000223">Give me the paper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">He skimmed through it and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“Isn’t it an adventure!</span>
   <span id="f000226">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000227">it’s a romance;</span>
   <span id="f000228">it’s like the impossible things one reads about in books,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and never sees in life.” He was well stirred up now;</span>
   <span id="f000230">cheerful,</span>
   <span id="f000231">even gleeful.</span>
   <span id="f000232">He tapped his old wife on the cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and said humorously,</span>
   <span id="f000234">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000235">we’re rich,</span>
   <span id="f000236">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000237">rich;</span>
   <span id="f000238">all we’ve got to do is to bury the money and burn the papers.</span>
   <span id="f000239">If the gambler ever comes to inquire,</span>
   <span id="f000240">we’ll merely look coldly upon him and say:</span>
   <span id="f000241">’What is this nonsense you are talking?</span>
   <span id="f000242">We have never heard of you and your sack of gold before;’ and then he would look foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“And in the meantime,</span>
   <span id="f000245">while you are running on with your jokes,</span>
   <span id="f000246">the money is still here,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and it is fast getting along toward burglar-time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“True.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000250">what shall we do – make the inquiry private?</span>
   <span id="f000251">No,</span>
   <span id="f000252">not that;</span>
   <span id="f000253">it would spoil the romance.</span>
   <span id="f000254">The public method is better.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Think what a noise it will make!</span>
   <span id="f000256">And it will make all the other towns jealous;</span>
   <span id="f000257">for no stranger would trust such a thing to any town but Hadleyburg,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and they know it.</span>
   <span id="f000259">It’s a great card for us.</span>
   <span id="f000260">I must get to the printing-office now,</span>
   <span id="f000261">or I shall be too late.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“But stop – stop – don’t leave me here alone with it,</span>
   <span id="f000263">Edward!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">But he was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000265">For only a little while,</span>
   <span id="f000266">however.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Not far from his own house he met the editor – proprietor of the paper,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and gave him the document,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and said “Here is a good thing for you,</span>
   <span id="f000270">Cox – put it in.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“It may be too late,</span>
   <span id="f000272">Mr.&#160;Richards,</span>
   <span id="f000273">but I’ll see.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">At home again,</span>
   <span id="f000275">he and his wife sat down to talk the charming mystery over;</span>
   <span id="f000276">they were in no condition for sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000277">The first question was,</span>
   <span id="f000278">Who could the citizen have been who gave the stranger the twenty dollars?</span>
   <span id="f000279">It seemed a simple one;</span>
   <span id="f000280">both answered it in the same breath –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“Barclay Goodson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“Yes,” said Richards,</span>
   <span id="f000283">“he could have done it,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and it would have been like him,</span>
   <span id="f000285">but there’s not another in the town.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“Everybody will grant that,</span>
   <span id="f000287">Edward – grant it privately,</span>
   <span id="f000288">anyway.</span>
   <span id="f000289">For six months,</span>
   <span id="f000290">now,</span>
   <span id="f000291">the village has been its own proper self once more – honest,</span>
   <span id="f000292">narrow,</span>
   <span id="f000293">self-righteous,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and stingy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“It is what he always called it,</span>
   <span id="f000296">to the day of his death – said it right out publicly,</span>
   <span id="f000297">too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and he was hated for it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000301">of course;</span>
   <span id="f000302">but he didn’t care.</span>
   <span id="f000303">I reckon he was the best-hated man among us,</span>
   <span id="f000304">except the Reverend Burgess.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000306">Burgess deserves it – he will never get another congregation here.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Mean as the town is,</span>
   <span id="f000308">it knows how to estimate <em>him</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000310">doesn’t it seem odd that the stranger should appoint Burgess to deliver the money?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000312">yes – it does.</span>
   <span id="f000313">That is – that is – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Why so much that-<em>is</em>-ing?</span>
   <span id="f000315">Would <em>you</em> select him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000317">maybe the stranger knows him better than this village does.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“Much <em>that</em> would help Burgess!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">The husband seemed perplexed for an answer;</span>
   <span id="f000320">the wife kept a steady eye upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and waited.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Finally Richards said,</span>
   <span id="f000323">with the hesitancy of one who is making a statement which is likely to encounter doubt,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">“Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000325">Burgess is not a bad man.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">His wife was certainly surprised.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“Nonsense!” she exclaimed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">“He is not a bad man.</span>
   <span id="f000329">I know.</span>
   <span id="f000330">The whole of his unpopularity had its foundation in that one thing – the thing that made so much noise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">“That ’one thing,’ indeed!</span>
   <span id="f000332">As if that ’one thing’ wasn’t enough,</span>
   <span id="f000333">all by itself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Plenty.</span>
   <span id="f000335">Plenty.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Only he wasn’t guilty of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">“How you talk!</span>
   <span id="f000338">Not guilty of it!</span>
   <span id="f000339">Everybody knows he <em>was</em> guilty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">“Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000341">I give you my word – he was innocent.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">“I can’t believe it and I don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000343">How do you know?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">“It is a confession.</span>
   <span id="f000345">I am ashamed,</span>
   <span id="f000346">but I will make it.</span>
   <span id="f000347">I was the only man who knew he was innocent.</span>
   <span id="f000348">I could have saved him,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and – and – well,</span>
   <span id="f000350">you know how the town was wrought up – I hadn’t the pluck to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000351">It would have turned everybody against me.</span>
   <span id="f000352">I felt mean,</span>
   <span id="f000353">ever so mean;</span>
   <span id="f000354">ut I didn’t dare;</span>
   <span id="f000355">I hadn’t the manliness to face that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">Mary looked troubled,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and for a while was silent.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Then she said stammeringly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“I – I don’t think it would have done for you to – to – One mustn’t – er – public opinion – one has to be so careful – so – ” It was a difficult road,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and she got mired;</span>
   <span id="f000361">but after a little she got started again.</span>
   <span id="f000362">“It was a great pity,</span>
   <span id="f000363">but – Why,</span>
   <span id="f000364">we couldn’t afford it,</span>
   <span id="f000365">Edward – we couldn’t indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000367">I wouldn’t have had you do it for anything!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“It would have lost us the good-will of so many people,</span>
   <span id="f000369">Mary;</span>
   <span id="f000370">and then – and then – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“What troubles me now is,</span>
   <span id="f000372">what <em>he</em> thinks of us,</span>
   <span id="f000373">Edward.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“He?</span>
   <span id="f000375"><em>He</em> doesn’t suspect that I could have saved him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000376">“Oh,” exclaimed the wife,</span>
   <span id="f000377">in a tone of relief,</span>
   <span id="f000378">“I am glad of that.</span>
   <span id="f000379">As long as he doesn’t know that you could have saved him,</span>
   <span id="f000380">he – he – well that makes it a great deal better.</span>
   <span id="f000381">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000382">I might have known he didn’t know,</span>
   <span id="f000383">because he is always trying to be friendly with us,</span>
   <span id="f000384">as little encouragement as we give him.</span>
   <span id="f000385">More than once people have twitted me with it.</span>
   <span id="f000386">There’s the Wilsons,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and the Wilcoxes,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and the Harknesses,</span>
   <span id="f000389">they take a mean pleasure in saying ’<em>Your friend</em> Burgess,’ because they know it pesters me.</span>
   <span id="f000390">I wish he wouldn’t persist in liking us so;</span>
   <span id="f000391">I can’t think why he keeps it up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“I can explain it.</span>
   <span id="f000393">It’s another confession.</span>
   <span id="f000394">When the thing was new and hot,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and the town made a plan to ride him on a rail,</span>
   <span id="f000396">my conscience hurt me so that I couldn’t stand it,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and I went privately and gave him notice,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and he got out of the town and stayed out till it was safe to come back.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“Edward!</span>
   <span id="f000400">If the town had found it out – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“<em>Don’t</em>!</span>
   <span id="f000402">It scares me yet,</span>
   <span id="f000403">to think of it.</span>
   <span id="f000404">I repented of it the minute it was done;</span>
   <span id="f000405">and I was even afraid to tell you lest your face might betray it to somebody.</span>
   <span id="f000406">I didn’t sleep any that night,</span>
   <span id="f000407">for worrying.</span>
   <span id="f000408">But after a few days I saw that no one was going to suspect me,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and after that I got to feeling glad I did it.</span>
   <span id="f000410">And I feel glad yet,</span>
   <span id="f000411">Mary – glad through and through.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">“So do I,</span>
   <span id="f000413">now,</span>
   <span id="f000414">for it would have been a dreadful way to treat him.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000416">I’m glad;</span>
   <span id="f000417">for really you did owe him that,</span>
   <span id="f000418">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000419">But,</span>
   <span id="f000420">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000421">suppose it should come out yet,</span>
   <span id="f000422">some day!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“It won’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“Why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“Because everybody thinks it was Goodson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“Of course they would!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000427">“Certainly.</span>
   <span id="f000428">And of course <em>he</em> didn’t care.</span>
   <span id="f000429">They persuaded poor old Sawlsberry to go and charge it on him,</span>
   <span id="f000430">and he went blustering over there and did it.</span>
   <span id="f000431">Goodson looked him over,</span>
   <span id="f000432">like as if he was hunting for a place on him that he could despise the most;</span>
   <span id="f000433">then he says,</span>
   <span id="f000434">’So you are the Committee of Inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000435">are you?’ Sawlsberry said that was about what he was.</span>
   <span id="f000436">’H’m.</span>
   <span id="f000437">Do they require particulars,</span>
   <span id="f000438">or do you reckon a kind of a <em>general</em> answer will do?’ ’If they require particulars,</span>
   <span id="f000439">I will come back,</span>
   <span id="f000440">Mr.&#160;Goodson;</span>
   <span id="f000441">I will take the general answer first.’ ’Very well,</span>
   <span id="f000442">then,</span>
   <span id="f000443">tell them to go to hell – I reckon that’s general enough.</span>
   <span id="f000444">And I’ll give you some advice,</span>
   <span id="f000445">Sawlsberry;</span>
   <span id="f000446">when you come back for the particulars,</span>
   <span id="f000447">fetch a basket to carry what is left of yourself home in.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">“Just like Goodson;</span>
   <span id="f000449">it’s got all the marks.</span>
   <span id="f000450">He had only one vanity;</span>
   <span id="f000451">he thought he could give advice better than any other person.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">“It settled the business,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and saved us,</span>
   <span id="f000454">Mary.</span>
   <span id="f000455">The subject was dropped.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“Bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000457">I’m not doubting <em>that</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">Then they took up the gold-sack mystery again,</span>
   <span id="f000459">with strong interest.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Soon the conversation began to suffer breaks – interruptions caused by absorbed thinkings.</span>
   <span id="f000461">The breaks grew more and more frequent.</span>
   <span id="f000462">At last Richards lost himself wholly in thought.</span>
   <span id="f000463">He sat long,</span>
   <span id="f000464">gazing vacantly at the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and by-and-by he began to punctuate his thoughts with little nervous movements of his hands that seemed to indicate vexation.</span>
   <span id="f000466">Meantime his wife too had relapsed into a thoughtful silence,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and her movements were beginning to show a troubled discomfort.</span>
   <span id="f000468">Finally Richards got up and strode aimlessly about the room,</span>
   <span id="f000469">ploughing his hands through his hair,</span>
   <span id="f000470">much as a somnambulist might do who was having a bad dream.</span>
   <span id="f000471">Then he seemed to arrive at a definite purpose;</span>
   <span id="f000472">and without a word he put on his hat and passed quickly out of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000473">His wife sat brooding,</span>
   <span id="f000474">with a drawn face,</span>
   <span id="f000475">and did not seem to be aware that she was alone.</span>
   <span id="f000476">Now and then she murmured,</span>
   <span id="f000477">“Lead us not into t…</span>
   <span id="f000478">but – but – we are so poor,</span>
   <span id="f000479">so poor!…</span>
   <span id="f000480">Lead us not into…</span>
   <span id="f000481">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000482">who would be hurt by it?</span>
   <span id="f000483">– and no one would ever know…</span>
   <span id="f000484">Lead us…</span>
   <span id="f000485">” The voice died out in mumblings.</span>
   <span id="f000486">After a little she glanced up and muttered in a half-frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000487">half-glad way –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“He is gone!</span>
   <span id="f000489">But,</span>
   <span id="f000490">oh dear,</span>
   <span id="f000491">he may be too late – too late…</span>
   <span id="f000492">Maybe not – maybe there is still time.” She rose and stood thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000493">nervously clasping and unclasping her hands.</span>
   <span id="f000494">A slight shudder shook her frame,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and she said,</span>
   <span id="f000496">out of a dry throat,</span>
   <span id="f000497">“God forgive me – it’s awful to think such things – but…</span>
   <span id="f000498">Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000499">how we are made – how strangely we are made!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000500">She turned the light low,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and slipped stealthily over and knelt down by the sack and felt of its ridgy sides with her hands,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and fondled them lovingly;</span>
   <span id="f000503">and there was a gloating light in her poor old eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000504">She fell into fits of absence;</span>
   <span id="f000505">and came half out of them at times to mutter “If we had only waited!</span>
   <span id="f000506">– oh,</span>
   <span id="f000507">if we had only waited a little,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and not been in such a hurry!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">Meantime Cox had gone home from his office and told his wife all about the strange thing that had happened,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and they had talked it over eagerly,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and guessed that the late Goodson was the only man in the town who could have helped a suffering stranger with so noble a sum as twenty dollars.</span>
   <span id="f000512">Then there was a pause,</span>
   <span id="f000513">and the two became thoughtful and silent.</span>
   <span id="f000514">And by- and-by nervous and fidgety.</span>
   <span id="f000515">At last the wife said,</span>
   <span id="f000516">as if to herself,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000517">“Nobody knows this secret but the Richardses…</span>
   <span id="f000518">and us…</span>
   <span id="f000519">nobody.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">The husband came out of his thinkings with a slight start,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and gazed wistfully at his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000522">whose face was become very pale;</span>
   <span id="f000523">then he hesitatingly rose,</span>
   <span id="f000524">and glanced furtively at his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000525">then at his wife – a sort of mute inquiry.</span>
   <span id="f000526">Mrs.&#160;Cox swallowed once or twice,</span>
   <span id="f000527">with her hand at her throat,</span>
   <span id="f000528">then in place of speech she nodded her head.</span>
   <span id="f000529">In a moment she was alone,</span>
   <span id="f000530">and mumbling to herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">And now Richards and Cox were hurrying through the deserted streets,</span>
   <span id="f000532">from opposite directions.</span>
   <span id="f000533">They met,</span>
   <span id="f000534">panting,</span>
   <span id="f000535">at the foot of the printing-office stairs;</span>
   <span id="f000536">by the night-light there they read each other’s face.</span>
   <span id="f000537">Cox whispered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000538">“Nobody knows about this but us?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">The whispered answer was:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“Not a soul – on honour,</span>
   <span id="f000541">not a soul!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“If it isn’t too late to – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">The men were starting up-stairs;</span>
   <span id="f000544">at this moment they were overtaken by a boy,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and Cox asked,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“Is that you,</span>
   <span id="f000547">Johnny?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000549">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">“You needn’t ship the early mail – nor <em>any</em> mail;</span>
   <span id="f000551">wait till I tell you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">“It’s already gone,</span>
   <span id="f000553">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">“<em>Gone</em>?” It had the sound of an unspeakable disappointment in it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000556">sir.</span>
   <span id="f000557">Time-table for Brixton and all the towns beyond changed to- day,</span>
   <span id="f000558">sir – had to get the papers in twenty minutes earlier than common.</span>
   <span id="f000559">I had to rush;</span>
   <span id="f000560">if I had been two minutes later – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">The men turned and walked slowly away,</span>
   <span id="f000562">not waiting to hear the rest.</span>
   <span id="f000563">Neither of them spoke during ten minutes;</span>
   <span id="f000564">then Cox said,</span>
   <span id="f000565">in a vexed tone,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">“What possessed you to be in such a hurry,</span>
   <span id="f000567"><em>I</em> can’t make out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">The answer was humble enough:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000569">“I see it now,</span>
   <span id="f000570">but somehow I never thought,</span>
   <span id="f000571">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000572">until it was too late.</span>
   <span id="f000573">But the next time – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">“Next time be hanged!</span>
   <span id="f000575">It won’t come in a thousand years.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">Then the friends separated without a good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and dragged themselves home with the gait of mortally stricken men.</span>
   <span id="f000578">At their homes their wives sprang up with an eager “Well?” – then saw the answer with their eyes and sank down sorrowing,</span>
   <span id="f000579">without waiting for it to come in words.</span>
   <span id="f000580">In both houses a discussion followed of a heated sort – a new thing;</span>
   <span id="f000581">there had been discussions before,</span>
   <span id="f000582">but not heated ones,</span>
   <span id="f000583">not ungentle ones.</span>
   <span id="f000584">The discussions to-night were a sort of seeming plagiarisms of each other.</span>
   <span id="f000585">Mrs.&#160;Richards said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“If you had only waited,</span>
   <span id="f000587">Edward – if you had only stopped to think;</span>
   <span id="f000588">but no,</span>
   <span id="f000589">you must run straight to the printing-office and spread it all over the world.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“It <em>said</em> publish it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">“That is nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000592">it also said do it privately,</span>
   <span id="f000593">if you liked.</span>
   <span id="f000594">There,</span>
   <span id="f000595">now – is that true,</span>
   <span id="f000596">or not?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000598">yes – yes,</span>
   <span id="f000599">it is true;</span>
   <span id="f000600">but when I thought what a stir it would make,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and what a compliment it was to Hadleyburg that a stranger should trust it so – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000602">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000603">certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000604">I know all that;</span>
   <span id="f000605">but if you had only stopped to think,</span>
   <span id="f000606">you would have seen that you <em>couldn’t</em> find the right man,</span>
   <span id="f000607">because he is in his grave,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and hasn’t left chick nor child nor relation behind him;</span>
   <span id="f000609">and as long as the money went to somebody that awfully needed it,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and nobody would be hurt by it,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and – and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000612">She broke down,</span>
   <span id="f000613">crying.</span>
   <span id="f000614">Her husband tried to think of some comforting thing to say,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and presently came out with this:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">“But after all,</span>
   <span id="f000617">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000618">it must be for the best – it must be;</span>
   <span id="f000619">we know that.</span>
   <span id="f000620">And we must remember that it was so ordered – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">“Ordered!</span>
   <span id="f000622">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000623">everything’s <em>ordered</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000624">when a person has to find some way out when he has been stupid.</span>
   <span id="f000625">Just the same,</span>
   <span id="f000626">it was <em>ordered</em> that the money should come to us in this special way,</span>
   <span id="f000627">and it was you that must take it on yourself to go meddling with the designs of Providence – and who gave you the right?</span>
   <span id="f000628">It was wicked,</span>
   <span id="f000629">that is what it was – just blasphemous presumption,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and no more becoming to a meek and humble professor of – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000632">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000633">you know how we have been trained all our lives long,</span>
   <span id="f000634">like the whole village,</span>
   <span id="f000635">till it is absolutely second nature to us to stop not a single moment to think when there’s an honest thing to be done – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000637">I know it,</span>
   <span id="f000638">I know it – it’s been one everlasting training and training and training in honesty – honesty shielded,</span>
   <span id="f000639">from the very cradle,</span>
   <span id="f000640">against every possible temptation,</span>
   <span id="f000641">and so it’s <em>artificial</em> honesty,</span>
   <span id="f000642">and weak as water when temptation comes,</span>
   <span id="f000643">as we have seen this night.</span>
   <span id="f000644">God knows I never had shade nor shadow of a doubt of my petrified and indestructible honesty until now – and now,</span>
   <span id="f000645">under the very first big and real temptation,</span>
   <span id="f000646">I – Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000647">it is my belief that this town’s honesty is as rotten as mine is;</span>
   <span id="f000648">as rotten as yours.</span>
   <span id="f000649">It is a mean town,</span>
   <span id="f000650">a hard,</span>
   <span id="f000651">stingy town,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and hasn’t a virtue in the world but this honesty it is so celebrated for and so conceited about;</span>
   <span id="f000653">and so help me,</span>
   <span id="f000654">I do believe that if ever the day comes that its honesty falls under great temptation,</span>
   <span id="f000655">its grand reputation will go to ruin like a house of cards.</span>
   <span id="f000656">There,</span>
   <span id="f000657">now,</span>
   <span id="f000658">I’ve made confession,</span>
   <span id="f000659">and I feel better;</span>
   <span id="f000660">I am a humbug,</span>
   <span id="f000661">and I’ve been one all my life,</span>
   <span id="f000662">without knowing it.</span>
   <span id="f000663">Let no man call me honest again – I will not have it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000664">“I – Well,</span>
   <span id="f000665">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000666">I feel a good deal as you do:</span>
   <span id="f000667">I certainly do.</span>
   <span id="f000668">It seems strange,</span>
   <span id="f000669">too,</span>
   <span id="f000670">so strange.</span>
   <span id="f000671">I never could have believed it – never.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">A long silence followed;</span>
   <span id="f000673">both were sunk in thought.</span>
   <span id="f000674">At last the wife looked up and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000675">“I know what you are thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000676">Edward.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000677">Richards had the embarrassed look of a person who is caught.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">“I am ashamed to confess it,</span>
   <span id="f000679">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000680">but – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">“It’s no matter,</span>
   <span id="f000682">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000683">I was thinking the same question myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000684">“I hope so.</span>
   <span id="f000685">State it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">“You were thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000687">if a body could only guess out <em>what the remark was</em> that Goodson made to the stranger.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">“It’s perfectly true.</span>
   <span id="f000689">I feel guilty and ashamed.</span>
   <span id="f000690">And you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">“I’m past it.</span>
   <span id="f000692">Let us make a pallet here;</span>
   <span id="f000693">we’ve got to stand watch till the bank vault opens in the morning and admits the sack…</span>
   <span id="f000694">Oh dear,</span>
   <span id="f000695">oh dear – if we hadn’t made the mistake!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">The pallet was made,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and Mary said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">“The open sesame – what could it have been?</span>
   <span id="f000699">I do wonder what that remark could have been.</span>
   <span id="f000700">But come;</span>
   <span id="f000701">we will get to bed now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">“And sleep?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">“No;</span>
   <span id="f000704">think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000705">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000706">think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">By this time the Coxes too had completed their spat and their reconciliation,</span>
   <span id="f000708">and were turning in – to think,</span>
   <span id="f000709">to think,</span>
   <span id="f000710">and toss,</span>
   <span id="f000711">and fret,</span>
   <span id="f000712">and worry over what the remark could possibly have been which Goodson made to the stranded derelict;</span>
   <span id="f000713">that golden remark;</span>
   <span id="f000714">that remark worth forty thousand dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000715">cash.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">The reason that the village telegraph-office was open later than usual that night was this:</span>
   <span id="f000717">The foreman of Cox’s paper was the local representative of the Associated Press.</span>
   <span id="f000718">One might say its honorary representative,</span>
   <span id="f000719">for it wasn’t four times a year that he could furnish thirty words that would be accepted.</span>
   <span id="f000720">But this time it was different.</span>
   <span id="f000721">His despatch stating what he had caught got an instant answer:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000722">“Send the whole thing – all the details – twelve hundred words.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000723">A colossal order!</span>
   <span id="f000724">The foreman filled the bill;</span>
   <span id="f000725">and he was the proudest man in the State.</span>
   <span id="f000726">By breakfast-time the next morning the name of Hadleyburg the Incorruptible was on every lip in America,</span>
   <span id="f000727">from Montreal to the Gulf,</span>
   <span id="f000728">from the glaciers of Alaska to the orange-groves of Florida;</span>
   <span id="f000729">and millions and millions of people were discussing the stranger and his money-sack,</span>
   <span id="f000730">and wondering if the right man would be found,</span>
   <span id="f000731">and hoping some more news about the matter would come soon – right away.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

