<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Hadleyburg village woke up world-celebrated – astonished – happy – vain.</span>
   <span id="f000003">Vain beyond imagination.</span>
   <span id="f000004">Its nineteen principal citizens and their wives went about shaking hands with each other,</span>
   <span id="f000005">and beaming,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and congratulating,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and saying <em>this</em> thing adds a new word to the dictionary – <em>Hadleyburg</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000009">synonym for <em>incorruptible</em> – destined to live in dictionaries for ever!</span>
   <span id="f000010">And the minor and unimportant citizens and their wives went around acting in much the same way.</span>
   <span id="f000011">Everybody ran to the bank to see the gold-sack;</span>
   <span id="f000012">and before noon grieved and envious crowds began to flock in from Brixton and all neighbouring towns;</span>
   <span id="f000013">and that afternoon and next day reporters began to arrive from everywhere to verify the sack and its history and write the whole thing up anew,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and make dashing free-hand pictures of the sack,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and of Richards’s house,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and the bank,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and the Presbyterian church,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and the Baptist church,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and the public square,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and the town-hall where the test would be applied and the money delivered;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and damnable portraits of the Richardses,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and Pinkerton the banker,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and Cox,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and the foreman,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and Reverend Burgess,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and the postmaster – and even of Jack Halliday,</span>
   <span id="f000027">who was the loafing,</span>
   <span id="f000028">good-natured,</span>
   <span id="f000029">no-account,</span>
   <span id="f000030">irreverent fisherman,</span>
   <span id="f000031">hunter,</span>
   <span id="f000032">boys’ friend,</span>
   <span id="f000033">stray-dogs’ friend,</span>
   <span id="f000034">typical “Sam Lawson” of the town.</span>
   <span id="f000035">The little mean,</span>
   <span id="f000036">smirking,</span>
   <span id="f000037">oily Pinkerton showed the sack to all comers,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and rubbed his sleek palms together pleasantly,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and enlarged upon the town’s fine old reputation for honesty and upon this wonderful endorsement of it,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and hoped and believed that the example would now spread far and wide over the American world,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and be epoch-making in the matter of moral regeneration.</span>
   <span id="f000042">And so on,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and so on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">By the end of a week things had quieted down again;</span>
   <span id="f000045">the wild intoxication of pride and joy had sobered to a soft,</span>
   <span id="f000046">sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000047">silent delight – a sort of deep,</span>
   <span id="f000048">nameless,</span>
   <span id="f000049">unutterable content.</span>
   <span id="f000050">All faces bore a look of peaceful,</span>
   <span id="f000051">holy happiness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">Then a change came.</span>
   <span id="f000053">It was a gradual change;</span>
   <span id="f000054">so gradual that its beginnings were hardly noticed;</span>
   <span id="f000055">maybe were not noticed at all,</span>
   <span id="f000056">except by Jack Halliday,</span>
   <span id="f000057">who always noticed everything;</span>
   <span id="f000058">and always made fun of it,</span>
   <span id="f000059">too,</span>
   <span id="f000060">no matter what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000061">He began to throw out chaffing remarks about people not looking quite so happy as they did a day or two ago;</span>
   <span id="f000062">and next he claimed that the new aspect was deepening to positive sadness;</span>
   <span id="f000063">next,</span>
   <span id="f000064">that it was taking on a sick look;</span>
   <span id="f000065">and finally he said that everybody was become so moody,</span>
   <span id="f000066">thoughtful,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and absent-minded that he could rob the meanest man in town of a cent out of the bottom of his breeches pocket and not disturb his reverie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">At this stage – or at about this stage – a saying like this was dropped at bedtime – with a sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000069">usually – by the head of each of the nineteen principal households:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000071">what <em>could</em> have been the remark that Goodson made?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">And straightway – with a shudder – came this,</span>
   <span id="f000073">from the man’s wife:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000075"><em>don’t</em>!</span>
   <span id="f000076">What horrible thing are you mulling in your mind?</span>
   <span id="f000077">Put it away from you,</span>
   <span id="f000078">for God’s sake!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">But that question was wrung from those men again the next night – and got the same retort.</span>
   <span id="f000080">But weaker.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">And the third night the men uttered the question yet again – with anguish,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and absently.</span>
   <span id="f000083">This time – and the following night – the wives fidgeted feebly,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and tried to say something.</span>
   <span id="f000085">But didn’t.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">And the night after that they found their tongues and responded – longingly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000088">if we <em>could</em> only guess!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">Halliday’s comments grew daily more and more sparklingly disagreeable and disparaging.</span>
   <span id="f000090">He went diligently about,</span>
   <span id="f000091">laughing at the town,</span>
   <span id="f000092">individually and in mass.</span>
   <span id="f000093">But his laugh was the only one left in the village:</span>
   <span id="f000094">it fell upon a hollow and mournful vacancy and emptiness.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Not even a smile was findable anywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Halliday carried a cigar-box around on a tripod,</span>
   <span id="f000097">playing that it was a camera,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and halted all passers and aimed the thing and said “Ready!</span>
   <span id="f000099">– now look pleasant,</span>
   <span id="f000100">please,” but not even this capital joke could surprise the dreary faces into any softening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">So three weeks passed – one week was left.</span>
   <span id="f000102">It was Saturday evening after supper.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Instead of the aforetime Saturday-evening flutter and bustle and shopping and larking,</span>
   <span id="f000104">the streets were empty and desolate.</span>
   <span id="f000105">Richards and his old wife sat apart in their little parlour – miserable and thinking.</span>
   <span id="f000106">This was become their evening habit now:</span>
   <span id="f000107">the life-long habit which had preceded it,</span>
   <span id="f000108">of reading,</span>
   <span id="f000109">knitting,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and contented chat,</span>
   <span id="f000111">or receiving or paying neighbourly calls,</span>
   <span id="f000112">was dead and gone and forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000113">ages ago – two or three weeks ago;</span>
   <span id="f000114">nobody talked now,</span>
   <span id="f000115">nobody read,</span>
   <span id="f000116">nobody visited – the whole village sat at home,</span>
   <span id="f000117">sighing,</span>
   <span id="f000118">worrying,</span>
   <span id="f000119">silent.</span>
   <span id="f000120">Trying to guess out that remark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">The postman left a letter.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Richards glanced listlessly at the superscription and the post-mark – unfamiliar,</span>
   <span id="f000123">both – and tossed the letter on the table and resumed his might-have-beens and his hopeless dull miseries where he had left them off.</span>
   <span id="f000124">Two or three hours later his wife got wearily up and was going away to bed without a good-night – custom now – but she stopped near the letter and eyed it awhile with a dead interest,</span>
   <span id="f000125">then broke it open,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and began to skim it over.</span>
   <span id="f000127">Richards,</span>
   <span id="f000128">sitting there with his chair tilted back against the wall and his chin between his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000129">heard something fall.</span>
   <span id="f000130">It was his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000131">He sprang to her side,</span>
   <span id="f000132">but she cried out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Leave me alone,</span>
   <span id="f000134">I am too happy.</span>
   <span id="f000135">Read the letter – read it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">He did.</span>
   <span id="f000137">He devoured it,</span>
   <span id="f000138">his brain reeling.</span>
   <span id="f000139">The letter was from a distant State,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and it said:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000141">I am a stranger to you,</span>
   <span id="f000142">but no matter:</span>
   <span id="f000143">I have something to tell.</span>
   <span id="f000144">I have just arrived home from Mexico,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and learned about that episode.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Of course you do not know who made that remark,</span>
   <span id="f000147">but I know,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and I am the only person living who does know.</span>
   <span id="f000149">It was GOODSON.</span>
   <span id="f000150">I knew him well,</span>
   <span id="f000151">many years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I passed through your village that very night,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and was his guest till the midnight train came along.</span>
   <span id="f000154">I overheard him make that remark to the stranger in the dark – it was in Hale Alley.</span>
   <span id="f000155">He and I talked of it the rest of the way home,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and while smoking in his house.</span>
   <span id="f000157">He mentioned many of your villagers in the course of his talk – most of them in a very uncomplimentary way,</span>
   <span id="f000158">but two or three favourably:</span>
   <span id="f000159">among these latter yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000160">I say ’favourably’ – nothing stronger.</span>
   <span id="f000161">I remember his saying he did not actually LIKE any person in the town – not one;</span>
   <span id="f000162">but that you – I THINK he said you – am almost sure – had done him a very great service once,</span>
   <span id="f000163">possibly without knowing the full value of it,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and he wished he had a fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000165">he would leave it to you when he died,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and a curse apiece for the rest of the citizens.</span>
   <span id="f000167">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000168">then,</span>
   <span id="f000169">if it was you that did him that service,</span>
   <span id="f000170">you are his legitimate heir,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and entitled to the sack of gold.</span>
   <span id="f000172">I know that I can trust to your honour and honesty,</span>
   <span id="f000173">for in a citizen of Hadleyburg these virtues are an unfailing inheritance,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and so I am going to reveal to you the remark,</span>
   <span id="f000175">well satisfied that if you are not the right man you will seek and find the right one and see that poor Goodson’s debt of gratitude for the service referred to is paid.</span>
   <span id="f000176">This is the remark ’YOU ARE FAR FROM BEING A BAD MAN:</span>
   <span id="f000177">GO,</span>
   <span id="f000178">AND REFORM.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“HOWARD L.</span>
   <span id="f000180">STEPHENSON.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000181">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000182">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000183">the money is ours,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and I am so grateful,</span>
   <span id="f000185"><em>oh</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000186">so grateful,</span>
   <span id="f000187">– kiss me,</span>
   <span id="f000188">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000189">it’s for ever since we kissed – and we needed it so – the money – and now you are free of Pinkerton and his bank,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and nobody’s slave any more;</span>
   <span id="f000191">it seems to me I could fly for joy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">It was a happy half-hour that the couple spent there on the settee caressing each other;</span>
   <span id="f000193">it was the old days come again – days that had begun with their courtship and lasted without a break till the stranger brought the deadly money.</span>
   <span id="f000194">By-and-by the wife said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000196">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000197">how lucky it was you did him that grand service,</span>
   <span id="f000198">poor Goodson!</span>
   <span id="f000199">I never liked him,</span>
   <span id="f000200">but I love him now.</span>
   <span id="f000201">And it was fine and beautiful of you never to mention it or brag about it.” Then,</span>
   <span id="f000202">with a touch of reproach,</span>
   <span id="f000203">“But you ought to have told <em>me</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000204">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000205">you ought to have told your wife,</span>
   <span id="f000206">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000208">I – er – well,</span>
   <span id="f000209">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000210">you see – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“Now stop hemming and hawing,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and tell me about it,</span>
   <span id="f000213">Edward.</span>
   <span id="f000214">I always loved you,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and now I’m proud of you.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Everybody believes there was only one good generous soul in this village,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and now it turns out that you – Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000218">why don’t you tell me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">“Well – er – er – Why,</span>
   <span id="f000220">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000221">I can’t!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“You <em>can’t</em>?</span>
   <span id="f000223"><em>Why</em> can’t you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000225">he – well,</span>
   <span id="f000226">he – he made me promise I wouldn’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">The wife looked him over,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000229">very slowly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">“Made – you – promise?</span>
   <span id="f000231">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000232">what do you tell me that for?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">“Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000234">do you think I would lie?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">She was troubled and silent for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000236">then she laid her hand within his and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">“No…</span>
   <span id="f000238">no.</span>
   <span id="f000239">We have wandered far enough from our bearings – God spare us that!</span>
   <span id="f000240">In all your life you have never uttered a lie.</span>
   <span id="f000241">But now – now that the foundations of things seem to be crumbling from under us,</span>
   <span id="f000242">we – we – ” She lost her voice for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000243">then said,</span>
   <span id="f000244">brokenly,</span>
   <span id="f000245">“Lead us not into temptation…</span>
   <span id="f000246">I think you made the promise,</span>
   <span id="f000247">Edward.</span>
   <span id="f000248">Let it rest so.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Let us keep away from that ground.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Now – that is all gone by;</span>
   <span id="f000251">let us he happy again;</span>
   <span id="f000252">it is no time for clouds.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">Edward found it something of an effort to comply,</span>
   <span id="f000254">for his mind kept wandering – trying to remember what the service was that he had done Goodson.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000255">The couple lay awake the most of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000256">Mary happy and busy,</span>
   <span id="f000257">Edward busy,</span>
   <span id="f000258">but not so happy.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Mary was planning what she would do with the money.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Edward was trying to recall that service.</span>
   <span id="f000261">At first his conscience was sore on account of the lie he had told Mary – if it was a lie.</span>
   <span id="f000262">After much reflection – suppose it <em>was</em> a lie?</span>
   <span id="f000263">What then?</span>
   <span id="f000264">Was it such a great matter?</span>
   <span id="f000265">Aren’t we always <em>acting</em> lies?</span>
   <span id="f000266">Then why not tell them?</span>
   <span id="f000267">Look at Mary – look what she had done.</span>
   <span id="f000268">While he was hurrying off on his honest errand,</span>
   <span id="f000269">what was she doing?</span>
   <span id="f000270">Lamenting because the papers hadn’t been destroyed and the money kept.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Is theft better than lying?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272"><em>That</em> point lost its sting – the lie dropped into the background and left comfort behind it.</span>
   <span id="f000273">The next point came to the front:</span>
   <span id="f000274"><em>had</em> he rendered that service?</span>
   <span id="f000275">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000276">here was Goodson’s own evidence as reported in Stephenson’s letter;</span>
   <span id="f000277">there could be no better evidence than that – it was even <em>proof</em> that he had rendered it.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Of course.</span>
   <span id="f000279">So that point was settled…</span>
   <span id="f000280">No,</span>
   <span id="f000281">not quite.</span>
   <span id="f000282">He recalled with a wince that this unknown Mr.&#160;Stephenson was just a trifle unsure as to whether the performer of it was Richards or some other – and,</span>
   <span id="f000283">oh dear,</span>
   <span id="f000284">he had put Richards on his honour!</span>
   <span id="f000285">He must himself decide whither that money must go – and Mr.&#160;Stephenson was not doubting that if he was the wrong man he would go honourably and find the right one.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000287">it was odious to put a man in such a situation – ah,</span>
   <span id="f000288">why couldn’t Stephenson have left out that doubt?</span>
   <span id="f000289">What did he want to intrude that for?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">Further reflection.</span>
   <span id="f000291">How did it happen that <em>Richards’s</em> name remained in Stephenson’s mind as indicating the right man,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and not some other man’s name?</span>
   <span id="f000293">That looked good.</span>
   <span id="f000294">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000295">that looked very good.</span>
   <span id="f000296">In fact it went on looking better and better,</span>
   <span id="f000297">straight along – until by-and-by it grew into positive <em>proof</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000298">And then Richards put the matter at once out of his mind,</span>
   <span id="f000299">for he had a private instinct that a proof once established is better left so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">He was feeling reasonably comfortable now,</span>
   <span id="f000301">but there was still one other detail that kept pushing itself on his notice:</span>
   <span id="f000302">of course he had done that service – that was settled;</span>
   <span id="f000303">but what <em>was</em> that service?</span>
   <span id="f000304">He must recall it – he would not go to sleep till he had recalled it;</span>
   <span id="f000305">it would make his peace of mind perfect.</span>
   <span id="f000306">And so he thought and thought.</span>
   <span id="f000307">He thought of a dozen things – possible services,</span>
   <span id="f000308">even probable services – but none of them seemed adequate,</span>
   <span id="f000309">none of them seemed large enough,</span>
   <span id="f000310">none of them seemed worth the money – worth the fortune Goodson had wished he could leave in his will.</span>
   <span id="f000311">And besides,</span>
   <span id="f000312">he couldn’t remember having done them,</span>
   <span id="f000313">anyway.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000315">then – now,</span>
   <span id="f000316">then – what <em>kind</em> of a service would it be that would make a man so inordinately grateful?</span>
   <span id="f000317">Ah – the saving of his soul!</span>
   <span id="f000318">That must be it.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000320">he could remember,</span>
   <span id="f000321">now,</span>
   <span id="f000322">how he once set himself the task of converting Goodson,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and laboured at it as much as – he was going to say three months;</span>
   <span id="f000324">but upon closer examination it shrunk to a month,</span>
   <span id="f000325">then to a week,</span>
   <span id="f000326">then to a day,</span>
   <span id="f000327">then to nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000328">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000329">he remembered now,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and with unwelcome vividness,</span>
   <span id="f000331">that Goodson had told him to go to thunder and mind his own business – <em>he</em> wasn’t hankering to follow Hadleyburg to heaven!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">So that solution was a failure – he hadn’t saved Goodson’s soul.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Richards was discouraged.</span>
   <span id="f000334">Then after a little came another idea:</span>
   <span id="f000335">had he saved Goodson’s property?</span>
   <span id="f000336">No,</span>
   <span id="f000337">that wouldn’t do – he hadn’t any.</span>
   <span id="f000338">His life?</span>
   <span id="f000339">That is it!</span>
   <span id="f000340">Of course.</span>
   <span id="f000341">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000342">he might have thought of it before.</span>
   <span id="f000343">This time he was on the right track,</span>
   <span id="f000344">sure.</span>
   <span id="f000345">His imagination-mill was hard at work in a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000346">now.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">Thereafter,</span>
   <span id="f000348">during a stretch of two exhausting hours,</span>
   <span id="f000349">he was busy saving Goodson’s life.</span>
   <span id="f000350">He saved it in all kinds of difficult and perilous ways.</span>
   <span id="f000351">In every case he got it saved satisfactorily up to a certain point;</span>
   <span id="f000352">then,</span>
   <span id="f000353">just as he was beginning to get well persuaded that it had really happened,</span>
   <span id="f000354">a troublesome detail would turn up which made the whole thing impossible.</span>
   <span id="f000355">As in the matter of drowning,</span>
   <span id="f000356">for instance.</span>
   <span id="f000357">In that case he had swum out and tugged Goodson ashore in an unconscious state with a great crowd looking on and applauding,</span>
   <span id="f000358">but when he had got it all thought out and was just beginning to remember all about it,</span>
   <span id="f000359">a whole swarm of disqualifying details arrived on the ground:</span>
   <span id="f000360">the town would have known of the circumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000361">Mary would have known of it,</span>
   <span id="f000362">it would glare like a limelight in his own memory instead of being an inconspicuous service which he had possibly rendered “without knowing its full value.” And at this point he remembered that he couldn’t swim anyway.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">Ah – <em>there</em> was a point which he had been overlooking from the start:</span>
   <span id="f000364">it had to be a service which he had rendered “possibly without knowing the full value of it.” Why,</span>
   <span id="f000365">really,</span>
   <span id="f000366">that ought to be an easy hunt – much easier than those others.</span>
   <span id="f000367">And sure enough,</span>
   <span id="f000368">by-and-by he found it.</span>
   <span id="f000369">Goodson,</span>
   <span id="f000370">years and years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000371">came near marrying a very sweet and pretty girl,</span>
   <span id="f000372">named Nancy Hewitt,</span>
   <span id="f000373">but in some way or other the match had been broken off;</span>
   <span id="f000374">the girl died,</span>
   <span id="f000375">Goodson remained a bachelor,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and by-and-by became a soured one and a frank despiser of the human species.</span>
   <span id="f000377">Soon after the girl’s death the village found out,</span>
   <span id="f000378">or thought it had found out,</span>
   <span id="f000379">that she carried a spoonful of negro blood in her veins.</span>
   <span id="f000380">Richards worked at these details a good while,</span>
   <span id="f000381">and in the end he thought he remembered things concerning them which must have gotten mislaid in his memory through long neglect.</span>
   <span id="f000382">He seemed to dimly remember that it was <em>he</em> that found out about the negro blood;</span>
   <span id="f000383">that it was he that told the village;</span>
   <span id="f000384">that the village told Goodson where they got it;</span>
   <span id="f000385">that he thus saved Goodson from marrying the tainted girl;</span>
   <span id="f000386">that he had done him this great service “without knowing the full value of it,” in fact without knowing that he <em>was</em> doing it;</span>
   <span id="f000387">but that Goodson knew the value of it,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and what a narrow escape he had had,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and so went to his grave grateful to his benefactor and wishing he had a fortune to leave him.</span>
   <span id="f000390">It was all clear and simple,</span>
   <span id="f000391">now,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and the more he went over it the more luminous and certain it grew;</span>
   <span id="f000393">and at last,</span>
   <span id="f000394">when he nestled to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000395">satisfied and happy,</span>
   <span id="f000396">he remembered the whole thing just as if it had been yesterday.</span>
   <span id="f000397">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000398">he dimly remembered Goodson’s <em>telling</em> him his gratitude once.</span>
   <span id="f000399">Meantime Mary had spent six thousand dollars on a new house for herself and a pair of slippers for her pastor,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and then had fallen peacefully to rest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">That same Saturday evening the postman had delivered a letter to each of the other principal citizens – nineteen letters in all.</span>
   <span id="f000402">No two of the envelopes were alike,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and no two of the superscriptions were in the same hand,</span>
   <span id="f000404">but the letters inside were just like each other in every detail but one.</span>
   <span id="f000405">They were exact copies of the letter received by Richards – handwriting and all – and were all signed by Stephenson,</span>
   <span id="f000406">but in place of Richards’s name each receiver’s own name appeared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">All night long eighteen principal citizens did what their caste-brother Richards was doing at the same time – they put in their energies trying to remember what notable service it was that they had unconsciously done Barclay Goodson.</span>
   <span id="f000408">In no case was it a holiday job;</span>
   <span id="f000409">still they succeeded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">And while they were at this work,</span>
   <span id="f000411">which was difficult,</span>
   <span id="f000412">their wives put in the night spending the money,</span>
   <span id="f000413">which was easy.</span>
   <span id="f000414">During that one night the nineteen wives spent an average of seven thousand dollars each out of the forty thousand in the sack – a hundred and thirty-three thousand altogether.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">Next day there was a surprise for Jack Halliday.</span>
   <span id="f000416">He noticed that the faces of the nineteen chief citizens and their wives bore that expression of peaceful and holy happiness again.</span>
   <span id="f000417">He could not understand it,</span>
   <span id="f000418">neither was he able to invent any remarks about it that could damage it or disturb it.</span>
   <span id="f000419">And so it was his turn to be dissatisfied with life.</span>
   <span id="f000420">His private guesses at the reasons for the happiness failed in all instances,</span>
   <span id="f000421">upon examination.</span>
   <span id="f000422">When he met Mrs.&#160;Wilcox and noticed the placid ecstasy in her face,</span>
   <span id="f000423">he said to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000424">“Her cat has had kittens” – and went and asked the cook;</span>
   <span id="f000425">it was not so,</span>
   <span id="f000426">the cook had detected the happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000427">but did not know the cause.</span>
   <span id="f000428">When Halliday found the duplicate ecstasy in the face of “Shadbelly” Billson</span>
   <span id="f000429">(village nickname),</span>
   <span id="f000430">he was sure some neighbour of Billson’s had broken his leg,</span>
   <span id="f000431">but inquiry showed that this had not happened.</span>
   <span id="f000432">The subdued ecstasy in Gregory Yates’s face could mean but one thing – he was a mother-in-law short;</span>
   <span id="f000433">it was another mistake.</span>
   <span id="f000434">“And Pinkerton – Pinkerton – he has collected ten cents that he thought he was going to lose.” And so on,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000436">In some cases the guesses had to remain in doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000437">in the others they proved distinct errors.</span>
   <span id="f000438">In the end Halliday said to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000439">“Anyway it roots up that there’s nineteen Hadleyburg families temporarily in heaven:</span>
   <span id="f000440">I don’t know how it happened;</span>
   <span id="f000441">I only know Providence is off duty to-day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">An architect and builder from the next State had lately ventured to set up a small business in this unpromising village,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and his sign had now been hanging out a week.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Not a customer yet;</span>
   <span id="f000445">he was a discouraged man,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and sorry he had come.</span>
   <span id="f000447">But his weather changed suddenly now.</span>
   <span id="f000448">First one and then another chief citizen’s wife said to him privately:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“Come to my house Monday week – but say nothing about it for the present.</span>
   <span id="f000450">We think of building.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">He got eleven invitations that day.</span>
   <span id="f000452">That night he wrote his daughter and broke off her match with her student.</span>
   <span id="f000453">He said she could marry a mile higher than that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">Pinkerton the banker and two or three other well-to-do men planned country-seats – but waited.</span>
   <span id="f000455">That kind don’t count their chickens until they are hatched.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">The Wilsons devised a grand new thing – a fancy-dress ball.</span>
   <span id="f000457">They made no actual promises,</span>
   <span id="f000458">but told all their acquaintanceship in confidence that they were thinking the matter over and thought they should give it – “and if we do,</span>
   <span id="f000459">you will be invited,</span>
   <span id="f000460">of course.” People were surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000462">one to another,</span>
   <span id="f000463">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000464">they are crazy,</span>
   <span id="f000465">those poor Wilsons,</span>
   <span id="f000466">they can’t afford it.” Several among the nineteen said privately to their husbands,</span>
   <span id="f000467">“It is a good idea,</span>
   <span id="f000468">we will keep still till their cheap thing is over,</span>
   <span id="f000469">then <em>we</em> will give one that will make it sick.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">The days drifted along,</span>
   <span id="f000471">and the bill of future squanderings rose higher and higher,</span>
   <span id="f000472">wilder and wilder,</span>
   <span id="f000473">more and more foolish and reckless.</span>
   <span id="f000474">It began to look as if every member of the nineteen would not only spend his whole forty thousand dollars before receiving-day,</span>
   <span id="f000475">but be actually in debt by the time he got the money.</span>
   <span id="f000476">In some cases light-headed people did not stop with planning to spend,</span>
   <span id="f000477">they really spent – on credit.</span>
   <span id="f000478">They bought land,</span>
   <span id="f000479">mortgages,</span>
   <span id="f000480">farms,</span>
   <span id="f000481">speculative stocks,</span>
   <span id="f000482">fine clothes,</span>
   <span id="f000483">horses,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and various other things,</span>
   <span id="f000485">paid down the bonus,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and made themselves liable for the rest – at ten days.</span>
   <span id="f000487">Presently the sober second thought came,</span>
   <span id="f000488">and Halliday noticed that a ghastly anxiety was beginning to show up in a good many faces.</span>
   <span id="f000489">Again he was puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and didn’t know what to make of it.</span>
   <span id="f000491">“The Wilcox kittens aren’t dead,</span>
   <span id="f000492">for they weren’t born;</span>
   <span id="f000493">nobody’s broken a leg;</span>
   <span id="f000494">there’s no shrinkage in mother-in-laws;</span>
   <span id="f000495"><em>nothing</em> has happened – it is an insolvable mystery.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">There was another puzzled man,</span>
   <span id="f000497">too – the Rev.</span>
   <span id="f000498">Mr.&#160;Burgess.</span>
   <span id="f000499">For days,</span>
   <span id="f000500">wherever he went,</span>
   <span id="f000501">people seemed to follow him or to be watching out for him;</span>
   <span id="f000502">and if he ever found himself in a retired spot,</span>
   <span id="f000503">a member of the nineteen would be sure to appear,</span>
   <span id="f000504">thrust an envelope privately into his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000505">whisper “To be opened at the town-hall Friday evening,” then vanish away like a guilty thing.</span>
   <span id="f000506">He was expecting that there might be one claimant for the sack – doubtful,</span>
   <span id="f000507">however,</span>
   <span id="f000508">Goodson being dead – but it never occurred to him that all this crowd might be claimants.</span>
   <span id="f000509">When the great Friday came at last,</span>
   <span id="f000510">he found that he had nineteen envelopes.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

