<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">The town-hall had never looked finer.</span>
   <span id="f000003">The platform at the end of it was backed by a showy draping of flags;</span>
   <span id="f000004">at intervals along the walls were festoons of flags;</span>
   <span id="f000005">the gallery fronts were clothed in flags;</span>
   <span id="f000006">the supporting columns were swathed in flags;</span>
   <span id="f000007">all this was to impress the stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000008">for he would be there in considerable force,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and in a large degree he would be connected with the press.</span>
   <span id="f000010">The house was full.</span>
   <span id="f000011">The 412 fixed seats were occupied;</span>
   <span id="f000012">also the 68 extra chairs which had been packed into the aisles;</span>
   <span id="f000013">the steps of the platform were occupied;</span>
   <span id="f000014">some distinguished strangers were given seats on the platform;</span>
   <span id="f000015">at the horseshoe of tables which fenced the front and sides of the platform sat a strong force of special correspondents who had come from everywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000016">It was the best-dressed house the town had ever produced.</span>
   <span id="f000017">There were some tolerably expensive toilets there,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and in several cases the ladies who wore them had the look of being unfamiliar with that kind of clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000019">At least the town thought they had that look,</span>
   <span id="f000020">but the notion could have arisen from the town’s knowledge of the fact that these ladies had never inhabited such clothes before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">The gold-sack stood on a little table at the front of the platform where all the house could see it.</span>
   <span id="f000022">The bulk of the house gazed at it with a burning interest,</span>
   <span id="f000023">a mouth-watering interest,</span>
   <span id="f000024">a wistful and pathetic interest;</span>
   <span id="f000025">a minority of nineteen couples gazed at it tenderly,</span>
   <span id="f000026">lovingly,</span>
   <span id="f000027">proprietarily,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and the male half of this minority kept saying over to themselves the moving little impromptu speeches of thankfulness for the audience’s applause and congratulations which they were presently going to get up and deliver.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Every now and then one of these got a piece of paper out of his vest pocket and privately glanced at it to refresh his memory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">Of course there was a buzz of conversation going on – there always is;</span>
   <span id="f000031">but at last,</span>
   <span id="f000032">when the Rev.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Mr.&#160;Burgess rose and laid his hand on the sack,</span>
   <span id="f000034">he could hear his microbes gnaw,</span>
   <span id="f000035">the place was so still.</span>
   <span id="f000036">He related the curious history of the sack,</span>
   <span id="f000037">then went on to speak in warm terms of Hadleyburg’s old and well-earned reputation for spotless honesty,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and of the town’s just pride in this reputation.</span>
   <span id="f000039">He said that this reputation was a treasure of priceless value;</span>
   <span id="f000040">that under Providence its value had now become inestimably enhanced,</span>
   <span id="f000041">for the recent episode had spread this fame far and wide,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and thus had focussed the eyes of the American world upon this village,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and made its name for all time,</span>
   <span id="f000044">as he hoped and believed,</span>
   <span id="f000045">a synonym for commercial incorruptibility.</span>
   <span id="f000046">[Applause.] “And who is to be the guardian of this noble fame – the community as a whole?</span>
   <span id="f000047">No!</span>
   <span id="f000048">The responsibility is individual,</span>
   <span id="f000049">not communal.</span>
   <span id="f000050">From this day forth each and every one of you is in his own person its special guardian,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and individually responsible that no harm shall come to it.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Do you – does each of you – accept this great trust?</span>
   <span id="f000053">[Tumultuous assent.] Then all is well.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Transmit it to your children and to your children’s children.</span>
   <span id="f000055">To- day your purity is beyond reproach – see to it that it shall remain so.</span>
   <span id="f000056">To- day there is not a person in your community who could be beguiled to touch a penny not his own – see to it that you abide in this grace.</span>
   <span id="f000057">[”We will!</span>
   <span id="f000058">we will!“] This is not the place to make comparisons between ourselves and other communities – some of them ungracious towards us;</span>
   <span id="f000059">they have their ways,</span>
   <span id="f000060">we have ours;</span>
   <span id="f000061">let us be content.</span>
   <span id="f000062">[Applause.] I am done.</span>
   <span id="f000063">Under my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000064">my friends,</span>
   <span id="f000065">rests a stranger’s eloquent recognition of what we are;</span>
   <span id="f000066">through him the world will always henceforth know what we are.</span>
   <span id="f000067">We do not know who he is,</span>
   <span id="f000068">but in your name I utter your gratitude,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and ask you to raise your voices in indorsement.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">The house rose in a body and made the walls quake with the thunders of its thankfulness for the space of a long minute.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Then it sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and Mr.&#160;Burgess took an envelope out of his pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000073">The house held its breath while he slit the envelope open and took from it a slip of paper.</span>
   <span id="f000074">He read its contents – slowly and impressively – the audience listening with tranced attention to this magic document,</span>
   <span id="f000075">each of whose words stood for an ingot of gold:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“’The remark which I made to the distressed stranger was this:</span>
   <span id="f000077">”You are very far from being a bad man;</span>
   <span id="f000078">go,</span>
   <span id="f000079">and reform.“’” Then he continued:</span>
   <span id="f000080">– “We shall know in a moment now whether the remark here quoted corresponds with the one concealed in the sack;</span>
   <span id="f000081">and if that shall prove to be so – and it undoubtedly will – this sack of gold belongs to a fellow-citizen who will henceforth stand before the nation as the symbol of the special virtue which has made our town famous throughout the land – Mr.&#160;Billson!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">The house had gotten itself all ready to burst into the proper tornado of applause;</span>
   <span id="f000083">but instead of doing it,</span>
   <span id="f000084">it seemed stricken with a paralysis;</span>
   <span id="f000085">there was a deep hush for a moment or two,</span>
   <span id="f000086">then a wave of whispered murmurs swept the place – of about this tenor:</span>
   <span id="f000087">“<em>Billson</em>!</span>
   <span id="f000088">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000089">come,</span>
   <span id="f000090">this is <em>too</em> thin!</span>
   <span id="f000091">Twenty dollars to a stranger – or <em>anybody</em> – <em>Billson</em>!</span>
   <span id="f000092">Tell it to the marines!” And now at this point the house caught its breath all of a sudden in a new access of astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f000093">for it discovered that whereas in one part of the hall Deacon Billson was standing up with his head weekly bowed,</span>
   <span id="f000094">in another part of it Lawyer Wilson was doing the same.</span>
   <span id="f000095">There was a wondering silence now for a while.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Everybody was puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and nineteen couples were surprised and indignant.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Billson and Wilson turned and stared at each other.</span>
   <span id="f000099">Billson asked,</span>
   <span id="f000100">bitingly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“Why do <em>you</em> rise,</span>
   <span id="f000102">Mr.&#160;Wilson?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Because I have a right to.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Perhaps you will be good enough to explain to the house why <em>you</em> rise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“With great pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Because I wrote that paper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“It is an impudent falsity!</span>
   <span id="f000108">I wrote it myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">It was Burgess’s turn to be paralysed.</span>
   <span id="f000110">He stood looking vacantly at first one of the men and then the other,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and did not seem to know what to do.</span>
   <span id="f000112">The house was stupefied.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Lawyer Wilson spoke up now,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“I ask the Chair to read the name signed to that paper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">That brought the Chair to itself,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and it read out the name:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">“John Wharton <em>Billson</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">“There!” shouted Billson,</span>
   <span id="f000120">“what have you got to say for yourself now?</span>
   <span id="f000121">And what kind of apology are you going to make to me and to this insulted house for the imposture which you have attempted to play here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">“No apologies are due,</span>
   <span id="f000123">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000124">and as for the rest of it,</span>
   <span id="f000125">I publicly charge you with pilfering my note from Mr.&#160;Burgess and substituting a copy of it signed with your own name.</span>
   <span id="f000126">There is no other way by which you could have gotten hold of the test-remark;</span>
   <span id="f000127">I alone,</span>
   <span id="f000128">of living men,</span>
   <span id="f000129">possessed the secret of its wording.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">There was likely to be a scandalous state of things if this went on;</span>
   <span id="f000131">everybody noticed with distress that the shorthand scribes were scribbling like mad;</span>
   <span id="f000132">many people were crying “Chair,</span>
   <span id="f000133">chair!</span>
   <span id="f000134">Order!</span>
   <span id="f000135">order!” Burgess rapped with his gavel,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“Let us not forget the proprieties due.</span>
   <span id="f000138">There has evidently been a mistake somewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000139">but surely that is all.</span>
   <span id="f000140">If Mr.&#160;Wilson gave me an envelope – and I remember now that he did – I still have it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">He took one out of his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000142">opened it,</span>
   <span id="f000143">glanced at it,</span>
   <span id="f000144">looked surprised and worried,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and stood silent a few moments.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Then he waved his hand in a wandering and mechanical way,</span>
   <span id="f000147">and made an effort or two to say something,</span>
   <span id="f000148">then gave it up,</span>
   <span id="f000149">despondently.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Several voices cried out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000151">“Read it!</span>
   <span id="f000152">read it!</span>
   <span id="f000153">What is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">So he began,</span>
   <span id="f000155">in a dazed and sleep-walker fashion:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“’The remark which I made to the unhappy stranger was this:</span>
   <span id="f000157">”You are far from being a bad man.</span>
   <span id="f000158">[The house gazed at him marvelling.] Go,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and reform.“’ [Murmurs:</span>
   <span id="f000160">”Amazing!</span>
   <span id="f000161">what can this mean?“] This one,” said the Chair,</span>
   <span id="f000162">“is signed Thurlow G.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Wilson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">“There!” cried Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000165">“I reckon that settles it!</span>
   <span id="f000166">I knew perfectly well my note was purloined.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“Purloined!” retorted Billson.</span>
   <span id="f000168">“I’ll let you know that neither you nor any man of your kidney must venture to – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">The Chair:</span>
   <span id="f000170">“Order,</span>
   <span id="f000171">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000172">order!</span>
   <span id="f000173">Take your seats,</span>
   <span id="f000174">both of you,</span>
   <span id="f000175">please.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">They obeyed,</span>
   <span id="f000177">shaking their heads and grumbling angrily.</span>
   <span id="f000178">The house was profoundly puzzled;</span>
   <span id="f000179">it did not know what to do with this curious emergency.</span>
   <span id="f000180">Presently Thompson got up.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Thompson was the hatter.</span>
   <span id="f000182">He would have liked to be a Nineteener;</span>
   <span id="f000183">but such was not for him;</span>
   <span id="f000184">his stock of hats was not considerable enough for the position.</span>
   <span id="f000185">He said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“Mr.&#160;Chairman,</span>
   <span id="f000187">if I may be permitted to make a suggestion,</span>
   <span id="f000188">can both of these gentlemen be right?</span>
   <span id="f000189">I put it to you,</span>
   <span id="f000190">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000191">can both have happened to say the very same words to the stranger?</span>
   <span id="f000192">It seems to me – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">The tanner got up and interrupted him.</span>
   <span id="f000194">The tanner was a disgruntled man;</span>
   <span id="f000195">he believed himself entitled to be a Nineteener,</span>
   <span id="f000196">but he couldn’t get recognition.</span>
   <span id="f000197">It made him a little unpleasant in his ways and speech.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Said he:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“Sho,</span>
   <span id="f000200"><em>that’s</em> not the point!</span>
   <span id="f000201"><em>That</em> could happen – twice in a hundred years – but not the other thing.</span>
   <span id="f000202"><em>Neither</em> of them gave the twenty dollars!” [A ripple of applause.]</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">Billson.</span>
   <span id="f000204">“I did!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">Wilson.</span>
   <span id="f000206">“I did!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">Then each accused the other of pilfering.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">The Chair.</span>
   <span id="f000209">“Order!</span>
   <span id="f000210">Sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000211">if you please – both of you.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Neither of the notes has been out of my possession at any moment.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">A Voice.</span>
   <span id="f000214">“Good – that settles <em>that</em>!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">The Tanner.</span>
   <span id="f000216">“Mr.&#160;Chairman,</span>
   <span id="f000217">one thing is now plain:</span>
   <span id="f000218">one of these men has been eavesdropping under the other one’s bed,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and filching family secrets.</span>
   <span id="f000220">If it is not unparliamentary to suggest it,</span>
   <span id="f000221">I will remark that both are equal to it.</span>
   <span id="f000222">[The Chair.</span>
   <span id="f000223">”Order!</span>
   <span id="f000224">order!“] I withdraw the remark,</span>
   <span id="f000225">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and will confine myself to suggesting that <em>if</em> one of them has overheard the other reveal the test-remark to his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000227">we shall catch him now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">A Voice.</span>
   <span id="f000229">“How?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">The Tanner.</span>
   <span id="f000231">“Easily.</span>
   <span id="f000232">The two have not quoted the remark in exactly the same words.</span>
   <span id="f000233">You would have noticed that,</span>
   <span id="f000234">if there hadn’t been a considerable stretch of time and an exciting quarrel inserted between the two readings.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">A Voice.</span>
   <span id="f000236">“Name the difference.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">The Tanner.</span>
   <span id="f000238">“The word <em>very</em> is in Billson’s note,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and not in the other.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">Many Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000241">“That’s so – he’s right!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">The Tanner.</span>
   <span id="f000243">“And so,</span>
   <span id="f000244">if the Chair will examine the test-remark in the sack,</span>
   <span id="f000245">we shall know which of these two frauds – [The Chair.</span>
   <span id="f000246">”Order!“] – which of these two adventurers – [The Chair.</span>
   <span id="f000247">”Order!</span>
   <span id="f000248">order!“] – which of these two gentlemen – [laughter and applause] – is entitled to wear the belt as being the first dishonest blatherskite ever bred in this town – which he has dishonoured,</span>
   <span id="f000249">and which will be a sultry place for him from now out!” [Vigorous applause.]</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">Many Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000251">“Open it!</span>
   <span id="f000252">– open the sack!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">Mr.&#160;Burgess made a slit in the sack,</span>
   <span id="f000254">slid his hand in,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and brought out an envelope.</span>
   <span id="f000256">In it were a couple of folded notes.</span>
   <span id="f000257">He said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">One of these is marked,</span>
   <span id="f000259">’Not to be examined until all written communications which have been addressed to the Chair – if any – shall have been read.’ The other is marked ’<em>The Test</em>.’ Allow me.</span>
   <span id="f000260">It is worded – to wit:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">“’I do not require that the first half of the remark which was made to me by my benefactor shall be quoted with exactness,</span>
   <span id="f000262">for it was not striking,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and could be forgotten;</span>
   <span id="f000264">but its closing fifteen words are quite striking,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and I think easily rememberable;</span>
   <span id="f000266">unless <em>these</em> shall be accurately reproduced,</span>
   <span id="f000267">let the applicant be regarded as an impostor.</span>
   <span id="f000268">My benefactor began by saying he seldom gave advice to anyone,</span>
   <span id="f000269">but that it always bore the hall-mark of high value when he did give it.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Then he said this – and it has never faded from my memory:</span>
   <span id="f000271">’<em>You are far from being a bad man</em> – ’’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">Fifty Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000273">“That settles it – the money’s Wilson’s!</span>
   <span id="f000274">Wilson!</span>
   <span id="f000275">Wilson!</span>
   <span id="f000276">Speech!</span>
   <span id="f000277">Speech!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">People jumped up and crowded around Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000279">wringing his hand and congratulating fervently – meantime the Chair was hammering with the gavel and shouting:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“Order,</span>
   <span id="f000281">gentlemen!</span>
   <span id="f000282">Order!</span>
   <span id="f000283">Order!</span>
   <span id="f000284">Let me finish reading,</span>
   <span id="f000285">please.” When quiet was restored,</span>
   <span id="f000286">the reading was resumed – as follows:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">“’<em>Go, </em></span>
   <span id="f000288"><em>and reform – or, </em></span>
   <span id="f000289"><em>mark my words – some day, </em></span>
   <span id="f000290"><em>for your sins you will die and go to hell or Hadleyburg</em> – TRY AND MAKE IT THE FORMER.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">A ghastly silence followed.</span>
   <span id="f000292">First an angry cloud began to settle darkly upon the faces of the citizenship;</span>
   <span id="f000293">after a pause the cloud began to rise,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and a tickled expression tried to take its place;</span>
   <span id="f000295">tried so hard that it was only kept under with great and painful difficulty;</span>
   <span id="f000296">the reporters,</span>
   <span id="f000297">the Brixtonites,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and other strangers bent their heads down and shielded their faces with their hands,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and managed to hold in by main strength and heroic courtesy.</span>
   <span id="f000300">At this most inopportune time burst upon the stillness the roar of a solitary voice – Jack Halliday’s:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“<em>That’s</em> got the hall-mark on it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">Then the house let go,</span>
   <span id="f000303">strangers and all.</span>
   <span id="f000304">Even Mr.&#160;Burgess’s gravity broke down presently,</span>
   <span id="f000305">then the audience considered itself officially absolved from all restraint,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and it made the most of its privilege.</span>
   <span id="f000307">It was a good long laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and a tempestuously wholehearted one,</span>
   <span id="f000309">but it ceased at last – long enough for Mr.&#160;Burgess to try to resume,</span>
   <span id="f000310">and for the people to get their eyes partially wiped;</span>
   <span id="f000311">then it broke out again,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and afterward yet again;</span>
   <span id="f000313">then at last Burgess was able to get out these serious words:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“It is useless to try to disguise the fact – we find ourselves in the presence of a matter of grave import.</span>
   <span id="f000315">It involves the honour of your town – it strikes at the town’s good name.</span>
   <span id="f000316">The difference of a single word between the test-remarks offered by Mr.&#160;Wilson and Mr.&#160;Billson was itself a serious thing,</span>
   <span id="f000317">since it indicated that one or the other of these gentlemen had committed a theft – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">The two men were sitting limp,</span>
   <span id="f000319">nerveless,</span>
   <span id="f000320">crushed;</span>
   <span id="f000321">but at these words both were electrified into movement,</span>
   <span id="f000322">and started to get up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“Sit down!” said the Chair,</span>
   <span id="f000324">sharply,</span>
   <span id="f000325">and they obeyed.</span>
   <span id="f000326">“That,</span>
   <span id="f000327">as I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000328">was a serious thing.</span>
   <span id="f000329">And it was – but for only one of them.</span>
   <span id="f000330">But the matter has become graver;</span>
   <span id="f000331">for the honour of <em>both</em> is now in formidable peril.</span>
   <span id="f000332">Shall I go even further,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and say in inextricable peril?</span>
   <span id="f000334"><em>Both</em> left out the crucial fifteen words.” He paused.</span>
   <span id="f000335">During several moments he allowed the pervading stillness to gather and deepen its impressive effects,</span>
   <span id="f000336">then added:</span>
   <span id="f000337">“There would seem to be but one way whereby this could happen.</span>
   <span id="f000338">I ask these gentlemen – Was there <em>collusion</em>?</span>
   <span id="f000339">– <em>agreement</em>?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">A low murmur sifted through the house;</span>
   <span id="f000341">its import was,</span>
   <span id="f000342">“He’s got them both.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">Billson was not used to emergencies;</span>
   <span id="f000344">he sat in a helpless collapse.</span>
   <span id="f000345">But Wilson was a lawyer.</span>
   <span id="f000346">He struggled to his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000347">pale and worried,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“I ask the indulgence of the house while I explain this most painful matter.</span>
   <span id="f000350">I am sorry to say what I am about to say,</span>
   <span id="f000351">since it must inflict irreparable injury upon Mr.&#160;Billson,</span>
   <span id="f000352">whom I have always esteemed and respected until now,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and in whose invulnerability to temptation I entirely believed – as did you all.</span>
   <span id="f000354">But for the preservation of my own honour I must speak – and with frankness.</span>
   <span id="f000355">I confess with shame – and I now beseech your pardon for it – that I said to the ruined stranger all of the words contained in the test-remark,</span>
   <span id="f000356">including the disparaging fifteen.</span>
   <span id="f000357">[Sensation.] When the late publication was made I recalled them,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and I resolved to claim the sack of coin,</span>
   <span id="f000359">for by every right I was entitled to it.</span>
   <span id="f000360">Now I will ask you to consider this point,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and weigh it well;</span>
   <span id="f000362">that stranger’s gratitude to me that night knew no bounds;</span>
   <span id="f000363">he said himself that he could find no words for it that were adequate,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and that if he should ever be able he would repay me a thousandfold.</span>
   <span id="f000365">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000366">then,</span>
   <span id="f000367">I ask you this;</span>
   <span id="f000368">could I expect – could I believe – could I even remotely imagine – that,</span>
   <span id="f000369">feeling as he did,</span>
   <span id="f000370">he would do so ungrateful a thing as to add those quite unnecessary fifteen words to his test?</span>
   <span id="f000371">– set a trap for me?</span>
   <span id="f000372">– expose me as a slanderer of my own town before my own people assembled in a public hall?</span>
   <span id="f000373">It was preposterous;</span>
   <span id="f000374">it was impossible.</span>
   <span id="f000375">His test would contain only the kindly opening clause of my remark.</span>
   <span id="f000376">Of that I had no shadow of doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000377">You would have thought as I did.</span>
   <span id="f000378">You would not have expected a base betrayal from one whom you had befriended and against whom you had committed no offence.</span>
   <span id="f000379">And so with perfect confidence,</span>
   <span id="f000380">perfect trust,</span>
   <span id="f000381">I wrote on a piece of paper the opening words – ending with ”Go,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and reform,“ – and signed it.</span>
   <span id="f000383">When I was about to put it in an envelope I was called into my back office,</span>
   <span id="f000384">and without thinking I left the paper lying open on my desk.” He stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000385">turned his head slowly toward Billson,</span>
   <span id="f000386">waited a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000387">then added:</span>
   <span id="f000388">“I ask you to note this;</span>
   <span id="f000389">when I returned,</span>
   <span id="f000390">a little latter,</span>
   <span id="f000391">Mr.&#160;Billson was retiring by my street door.” [Sensation.]</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">In a moment Billson was on his feet and shouting:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“It’s a lie!</span>
   <span id="f000394">It’s an infamous lie!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">The Chair.</span>
   <span id="f000396">“Be seated,</span>
   <span id="f000397">sir!</span>
   <span id="f000398">Mr.&#160;Wilson has the floor.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">Billson’s friends pulled him into his seat and quieted him,</span>
   <span id="f000400">and Wilson went on:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“Those are the simple facts.</span>
   <span id="f000402">My note was now lying in a different place on the table from where I had left it.</span>
   <span id="f000403">I noticed that,</span>
   <span id="f000404">but attached no importance to it,</span>
   <span id="f000405">thinking a draught had blown it there.</span>
   <span id="f000406">That Mr.&#160;Billson would read a private paper was a thing which could not occur to me;</span>
   <span id="f000407">he was an honourable man,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and he would be above that.</span>
   <span id="f000409">If you will allow me to say it,</span>
   <span id="f000410">I think his extra word ’<em>very</em>’ stands explained:</span>
   <span id="f000411">it is attributable to a defect of memory.</span>
   <span id="f000412">I was the only man in the world who could furnish here any detail of the test-mark – by <em>honourable</em> means.</span>
   <span id="f000413">I have finished.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">There is nothing in the world like a persuasive speech to fuddle the mental apparatus and upset the convictions and debauch the emotions of an audience not practised in the tricks and delusions of oratory.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Wilson sat down victorious.</span>
   <span id="f000416">The house submerged him in tides of approving applause;</span>
   <span id="f000417">friends swarmed to him and shook him by the hand and congratulated him,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and Billson was shouted down and not allowed to say a word.</span>
   <span id="f000419">The Chair hammered and hammered with its gavel,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and kept shouting:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">“But let us proceed,</span>
   <span id="f000422">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000423">let us proceed!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">At last there was a measurable degree of quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and the hatter said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">“But what is there to proceed with,</span>
   <span id="f000427">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000428">but to deliver the money?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000430">“That’s it!</span>
   <span id="f000431">That’s it!</span>
   <span id="f000432">Come forward,</span>
   <span id="f000433">Wilson!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">The Hatter.</span>
   <span id="f000435">“I move three cheers for Mr.&#160;Wilson,</span>
   <span id="f000436">Symbol of the special virtue which – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">The cheers burst forth before he could finish;</span>
   <span id="f000438">and in the midst of them – and in the midst of the clamour of the gavel also – some enthusiasts mounted Wilson on a big friend’s shoulder and were going to fetch him in triumph to the platform.</span>
   <span id="f000439">The Chair’s voice now rose above the noise:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">“Order!</span>
   <span id="f000441">To your places!</span>
   <span id="f000442">You forget that there is still a document to be read.” When quiet had been restored he took up the document,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and was going to read it,</span>
   <span id="f000444">but laid it down again saying “I forgot;</span>
   <span id="f000445">this is not to be read until all written communications received by me have first been read.” He took an envelope out of his pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000446">removed its enclosure,</span>
   <span id="f000447">glanced at it – seemed astonished – held it out and gazed at it – stared at it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">Twenty or thirty voices cried out</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“What is it?</span>
   <span id="f000450">Read it!</span>
   <span id="f000451">read it!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">And he did – slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and wondering:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">“’The remark which I made to the stranger – [Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000455">”Hello!</span>
   <span id="f000456">how’s this?“] – was this:</span>
   <span id="f000457">’You are far from being a bad man.</span>
   <span id="f000458">[Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000459">”Great Scott!“] Go,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and reform.’” [Voice.</span>
   <span id="f000461">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000462">saw my leg off!”] Signed by Mr.&#160;Pinkerton the banker."</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">The pandemonium of delight which turned itself loose now was of a sort to make the judicious weep.</span>
   <span id="f000464">Those whose withers were unwrung laughed till the tears ran down;</span>
   <span id="f000465">the reporters,</span>
   <span id="f000466">in throes of laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000467">set down disordered pot-hooks which would never in the world be decipherable;</span>
   <span id="f000468">and a sleeping dog jumped up scared out of its wits,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and barked itself crazy at the turmoil.</span>
   <span id="f000470">All manner of cries were scattered through the din:</span>
   <span id="f000471">“We’re getting rich – <em>two</em> Symbols of Incorruptibility!</span>
   <span id="f000472">– without counting Billson!” “<em>Three</em>!</span>
   <span id="f000473">– count Shadbelly in – we can’t have too many!” “All right – Billson’s elected!” “Alas,</span>
   <span id="f000474">poor Wilson!</span>
   <span id="f000475">victim of <em>two</em> thieves!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">A Powerful Voice.</span>
   <span id="f000477">“Silence!</span>
   <span id="f000478">The Chair’s fished up something more out of its pocket.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000480">“Hurrah!</span>
   <span id="f000481">Is it something fresh?</span>
   <span id="f000482">Read it!</span>
   <span id="f000483">read!</span>
   <span id="f000484">read!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">The Chair [reading].</span>
   <span id="f000486">“’The remark which I made,’ etc.</span>
   <span id="f000487">’You are far from being a bad man.</span>
   <span id="f000488">Go,’ etc.</span>
   <span id="f000489">Signed,</span>
   <span id="f000490">’Gregory Yates.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">Tornado of Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000492">“Four Symbols!” “’Rah for Yates!” “Fish again!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000493">The house was in a roaring humour now,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and ready to get all the fun out of the occasion that might be in it.</span>
   <span id="f000495">Several Nineteeners,</span>
   <span id="f000496">looking pale and distressed,</span>
   <span id="f000497">got up and began to work their way towards the aisles,</span>
   <span id="f000498">but a score of shouts went up:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000499">“The doors,</span>
   <span id="f000500">the doors – close the doors;</span>
   <span id="f000501">no Incorruptible shall leave this place!</span>
   <span id="f000502">Sit down,</span>
   <span id="f000503">everybody!” The mandate was obeyed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">“Fish again!</span>
   <span id="f000505">Read!</span>
   <span id="f000506">read!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000507">The Chair fished again,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and once more the familiar words began to fall from its lips – “’You are far from being a bad man – ’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">“Name!</span>
   <span id="f000510">name!</span>
   <span id="f000511">What’s his name?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">“’L.</span>
   <span id="f000513">Ingoldsby Sargent.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">“Five elected!</span>
   <span id="f000515">Pile up the Symbols!</span>
   <span id="f000516">Go on,</span>
   <span id="f000517">go on!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">“’You are far from being a bad – ’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">“Name!</span>
   <span id="f000520">name!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">“’Nicholas Whitworth.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">“Hooray!</span>
   <span id="f000523">hooray!</span>
   <span id="f000524">it’s a symbolical day!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000525">Somebody wailed in,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and began to sing this rhyme</span>
   <span id="f000527">(leaving out “it’s”)</span>
   <span id="f000528">to the lovely “Mikado” tune of “When a man’s afraid of a beautiful maid;” the audience joined in,</span>
   <span id="f000529">with joy;</span>
   <span id="f000530">then,</span>
   <span id="f000531">just in time,</span>
   <span id="f000532">somebody contributed another line –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000533">“And don’t you this forget – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000534">The house roared it out.</span>
   <span id="f000535">A third line was at once furnished –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000536">“Corruptibles far from Hadleyburg are – ”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000537">The house roared that one too.</span>
   <span id="f000538">As the last note died,</span>
   <span id="f000539">Jack Halliday’s voice rose high and clear,</span>
   <span id="f000540">freighted with a final line –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000541">“But the Symbols are here,</span>
   <span id="f000542">you bet!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000543">That was sung,</span>
   <span id="f000544">with booming enthusiasm.</span>
   <span id="f000545">Then the happy house started in at the beginning and sang the four lines through twice,</span>
   <span id="f000546">with immense swing and dash,</span>
   <span id="f000547">and finished up with a crashing three-times-three and a tiger for “Hadleyburg the Incorruptible and all Symbols of it which we shall find worthy to receive the hall-mark to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">Then the shoutings at the Chair began again,</span>
   <span id="f000549">all over the place:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">“Go on!</span>
   <span id="f000551">go on!</span>
   <span id="f000552">Read!</span>
   <span id="f000553">read some more!</span>
   <span id="f000554">Read all you’ve got!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“That’s it – go on!</span>
   <span id="f000556">We are winning eternal celebrity!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000557">A dozen men got up now and began to protest.</span>
   <span id="f000558">They said that this farce was the work of some abandoned joker,</span>
   <span id="f000559">and was an insult to the whole community.</span>
   <span id="f000560">Without a doubt these signatures were all forgeries –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">“Sit down!</span>
   <span id="f000562">sit down!</span>
   <span id="f000563">Shut up!</span>
   <span id="f000564">You are confessing.</span>
   <span id="f000565">We’ll find your names in the lot.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000566">“Mr.&#160;Chairman,</span>
   <span id="f000567">how many of those envelopes have you got?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">The Chair counted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000569">“Together with those that have been already examined,</span>
   <span id="f000570">there are nineteen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000571">A storm of derisive applause broke out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">“Perhaps they all contain the secret.</span>
   <span id="f000573">I move that you open them all and read every signature that is attached to a note of that sort – and read also the first eight words of the note.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000574">“Second the motion!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">It was put and carried – uproariously.</span>
   <span id="f000576">Then poor old Richards got up,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and his wife rose and stood at his side.</span>
   <span id="f000578">Her head was bent down,</span>
   <span id="f000579">so that none might see that she was crying.</span>
   <span id="f000580">Her husband gave her his arm,</span>
   <span id="f000581">and so supporting her,</span>
   <span id="f000582">he began to speak in a quavering voice:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“My friends,</span>
   <span id="f000584">you have known us two – Mary and me – all our lives,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and I think you have liked us and respected us – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">The Chair interrupted him:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">“Allow me.</span>
   <span id="f000588">It is quite true – that which you are saying,</span>
   <span id="f000589">Mr.&#160;Richards;</span>
   <span id="f000590">this town <em>does</em> know you two;</span>
   <span id="f000591">it <em>does</em> like you;</span>
   <span id="f000592">it <em>does</em> respect you;</span>
   <span id="f000593">more – it honours you and <em>loves</em> you – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">Halliday’s voice rang out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">“That’s the hall-marked truth,</span>
   <span id="f000596">too!</span>
   <span id="f000597">If the Chair is right,</span>
   <span id="f000598">let the house speak up and say it.</span>
   <span id="f000599">Rise!</span>
   <span id="f000600">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000601">then – hip!</span>
   <span id="f000602">hip!</span>
   <span id="f000603">hip!</span>
   <span id="f000604">– all together!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">The house rose in mass,</span>
   <span id="f000606">faced toward the old couple eagerly,</span>
   <span id="f000607">filled the air with a snow-storm of waving handkerchiefs,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and delivered the cheers with all its affectionate heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">The Chair then continued:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000610">“What I was going to say is this:</span>
   <span id="f000611">We know your good heart,</span>
   <span id="f000612">Mr.&#160;Richards,</span>
   <span id="f000613">but this is not a time for the exercise of charity toward offenders.</span>
   <span id="f000614">[Shouts of ”Right!</span>
   <span id="f000615">right!“] I see your generous purpose in your face,</span>
   <span id="f000616">but I cannot allow you to plead for these men – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">“But I was going to – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">“Please take your seat,</span>
   <span id="f000619">Mr.&#160;Richards.</span>
   <span id="f000620">We must examine the rest of these notes – simple fairness to the men who have already been exposed requires this.</span>
   <span id="f000621">As soon as that has been done – I give you my word for this – you shall he heard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000622">Many voices.</span>
   <span id="f000623">“Right!</span>
   <span id="f000624">– the Chair is right – no interruption can be permitted at this stage!</span>
   <span id="f000625">Go on!</span>
   <span id="f000626">– the names!</span>
   <span id="f000627">the names!</span>
   <span id="f000628">– according to the terms of the motion!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">The old couple sat reluctantly down,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and the husband whispered to the wife,</span>
   <span id="f000631">“It is pitifully hard to have to wait;</span>
   <span id="f000632">the shame will be greater than ever when they find we were only going to plead for <em>ourselves</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000633">Straightway the jollity broke loose again with the reading of the names.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">“’You are far from being a bad man – ’ Signature,</span>
   <span id="f000635">’Robert J.</span>
   <span id="f000636">Titmarsh.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000637">’“You are far from being a bad man – ’ Signature,</span>
   <span id="f000638">’Eliphalet Weeks.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">“’You are far from being a bad man – ’ Signature,</span>
   <span id="f000640">’Oscar B.</span>
   <span id="f000641">Wilder.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000642">At this point the house lit upon the idea of taking the eight words out of the Chairman’s hands.</span>
   <span id="f000643">He was not unthankful for that.</span>
   <span id="f000644">Thenceforward he held up each note in its turn and waited.</span>
   <span id="f000645">The house droned out the eight words in a massed and measured and musical deep volume of sound</span>
   <span id="f000646">(with a daringly close resemblance to a well-known church chant)</span>
   <span id="f000647">– “You are f-a-r from being a b-a-a-a-d man.” Then the Chair said,</span>
   <span id="f000648">“Signature,</span>
   <span id="f000649">’Archibald Wilcox.’” And so on,</span>
   <span id="f000650">and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000651">name after name,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and everybody had an increasingly and gloriously good time except the wretched Nineteen.</span>
   <span id="f000653">Now and then,</span>
   <span id="f000654">when a particularly shining name was called,</span>
   <span id="f000655">the house made the Chair wait while it chanted the whole of the test-remark from the beginning to the closing words,</span>
   <span id="f000656">“And go to hell or Hadleyburg – try and make it the for-or-m-e-r!” and in these special cases they added a grand and agonised and imposing “A-a-a-a-<em>men</em>!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000657">The list dwindled,</span>
   <span id="f000658">dwindled,</span>
   <span id="f000659">dwindled,</span>
   <span id="f000660">poor old Richards keeping tally of the count,</span>
   <span id="f000661">wincing when a name resembling his own was pronounced,</span>
   <span id="f000662">and waiting in miserable suspense for the time to come when it would be his humiliating privilege to rise with Mary and finish his plea,</span>
   <span id="f000663">which he was intending to word thus:</span>
   <span id="f000664">“…</span>
   <span id="f000665">for until now we have never done any wrong thing,</span>
   <span id="f000666">but have gone our humble way unreproached.</span>
   <span id="f000667">We are very poor,</span>
   <span id="f000668">we are old,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and,</span>
   <span id="f000670">have no chick nor child to help us;</span>
   <span id="f000671">we were sorely tempted,</span>
   <span id="f000672">and we fell.</span>
   <span id="f000673">It was my purpose when I got up before to make confession and beg that my name might not be read out in this public place,</span>
   <span id="f000674">for it seemed to us that we could not bear it;</span>
   <span id="f000675">but I was prevented.</span>
   <span id="f000676">It was just;</span>
   <span id="f000677">it was our place to suffer with the rest.</span>
   <span id="f000678">It has been hard for us.</span>
   <span id="f000679">It is the first time we have ever heard our name fall from any one’s lips – sullied.</span>
   <span id="f000680">Be merciful – for the sake or the better days;</span>
   <span id="f000681">make our shame as light to bear as in your charity you can.” At this point in his reverie Mary nudged him,</span>
   <span id="f000682">perceiving that his mind was absent.</span>
   <span id="f000683">The house was chanting,</span>
   <span id="f000684">“You are f-a-r,” etc.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000685">“Be ready,” Mary whispered.</span>
   <span id="f000686">“Your name comes now;</span>
   <span id="f000687">he has read eighteen.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">The chant ended.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000689">“Next!</span>
   <span id="f000690">next!</span>
   <span id="f000691">next!” came volleying from all over the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000692">Burgess put his hand into his pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000693">The old couple,</span>
   <span id="f000694">trembling,</span>
   <span id="f000695">began to rise.</span>
   <span id="f000696">Burgess fumbled a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000697">then said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">“I find I have read them all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000699">Faint with joy and surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000700">the couple sank into their seats,</span>
   <span id="f000701">and Mary whispered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000703">bless God,</span>
   <span id="f000704">we are saved!</span>
   <span id="f000705">– he has lost ours – I wouldn’t give this for a hundred of those sacks!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000706">The house burst out with its “Mikado” travesty,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and sang it three times with ever-increasing enthusiasm,</span>
   <span id="f000708">rising to its feet when it reached for the third time the closing line –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000709">“But the Symbols are here,</span>
   <span id="f000710">you bet!”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000711">and finishing up with cheers and a tiger for “Hadleyburg purity and our eighteen immortal representatives of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">Then Wingate,</span>
   <span id="f000713">the saddler,</span>
   <span id="f000714">got up and proposed cheers “for the cleanest man in town,</span>
   <span id="f000715">the one solitary important citizen in it who didn’t try to steal that money – Edward Richards.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">They were given with great and moving heartiness;</span>
   <span id="f000717">then somebody proposed that “Richards be elected sole Guardian and Symbol of the now Sacred Hadleyburg Tradition,</span>
   <span id="f000718">with power and right to stand up and look the whole sarcastic world in the face.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000719">Passed,</span>
   <span id="f000720">by acclamation;</span>
   <span id="f000721">then they sang the “Mikado” again,</span>
   <span id="f000722">and ended it with –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">“And there’s <em>one</em> Symbol left,</span>
   <span id="f000724">you bet!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">There was a pause;</span>
   <span id="f000726">then –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000727">A Voice.</span>
   <span id="f000728">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000729">then,</span>
   <span id="f000730">who’s to get the sack?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000731">The Tanner</span>
   <span id="f000732">(with bitter sarcasm).</span>
   <span id="f000733">“That’s easy.</span>
   <span id="f000734">The money has to be divided among the eighteen Incorruptibles.</span>
   <span id="f000735">They gave the suffering stranger twenty dollars apiece – and that remark – each in his turn – it took twenty-two minutes for the procession to move past.</span>
   <span id="f000736">Staked the stranger – total contribution,</span>
   <span id="f000737">$360.</span>
   <span id="f000738">All they want is just the loan back – and interest – forty thousand dollars altogether.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">Many Voices [derisively.] “That’s it!</span>
   <span id="f000740">Divvy!</span>
   <span id="f000741">divvy!</span>
   <span id="f000742">Be kind to the poor – don’t keep them waiting!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000743">The Chair.</span>
   <span id="f000744">“Order!</span>
   <span id="f000745">I now offer the stranger’s remaining document.</span>
   <span id="f000746">It says:</span>
   <span id="f000747">’If no claimant shall appear [grand chorus of groans],</span>
   <span id="f000748">I desire that you open the sack and count out the money to the principal citizens of your town,</span>
   <span id="f000749">they to take it in trust [Cries of ”Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000750">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000751">Oh!“],</span>
   <span id="f000752">and use it in such ways as to them shall seem best for the propagation and preservation of your community’s noble reputation for incorruptible honesty [more cries] – a reputation to which their names and their efforts will add a new and far-reaching lustre.” [Enthusiastic outburst of sarcastic applause.] That seems to be all.</span>
   <span id="f000753">No – here is a postscript:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“’P.S.</span>
   <span id="f000755">– CITIZENS OF HADLEYBURG:</span>
   <span id="f000756">There <em>is</em> no test-remark – nobody made one.</span>
   <span id="f000757">[Great sensation.] There wasn’t any pauper stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000758">nor any twenty-dollar contribution,</span>
   <span id="f000759">nor any accompanying benediction and compliment – these are all inventions.</span>
   <span id="f000760">[General buzz and hum of astonishment and delight.] Allow me to tell my story – it will take but a word or two.</span>
   <span id="f000761">I passed through your town at a certain time,</span>
   <span id="f000762">and received a deep offence which I had not earned.</span>
   <span id="f000763">Any other man would have been content to kill one or two of you and call it square,</span>
   <span id="f000764">but to me that would have been a trivial revenge,</span>
   <span id="f000765">and inadequate;</span>
   <span id="f000766">for the dead do not <em>suffer</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000767">Besides I could not kill you all – and,</span>
   <span id="f000768">anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000769">made as I am,</span>
   <span id="f000770">even that would not have satisfied me.</span>
   <span id="f000771">I wanted to damage every man in the place,</span>
   <span id="f000772">and every woman – and not in their bodies or in their estate,</span>
   <span id="f000773">but in their vanity – the place where feeble and foolish people are most vulnerable.</span>
   <span id="f000774">So I disguised myself and came back and studied you.</span>
   <span id="f000775">You were easy game.</span>
   <span id="f000776">You had an old and lofty reputation for honesty,</span>
   <span id="f000777">and naturally you were proud of it – it was your treasure of treasures,</span>
   <span id="f000778">the very apple of your eye.</span>
   <span id="f000779">As soon as I found out that you carefully and vigilantly kept yourselves and your children <em>out of temptation</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000780">I knew how to proceed.</span>
   <span id="f000781">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000782">you simple creatures,</span>
   <span id="f000783">the weakest of all weak things is a virtue which has not been tested in the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000784">I laid a plan,</span>
   <span id="f000785">and gathered a list of names.</span>
   <span id="f000786">My project was to corrupt Hadleyburg the Incorruptible.</span>
   <span id="f000787">My idea was to make liars and thieves of nearly half a hundred smirchless men and women who had never in their lives uttered a lie or stolen a penny.</span>
   <span id="f000788">I was afraid of Goodson.</span>
   <span id="f000789">He was neither born nor reared in Hadleyburg.</span>
   <span id="f000790">I was afraid that if I started to operate my scheme by getting my letter laid before you,</span>
   <span id="f000791">you would say to yourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000792">’Goodson is the only man among us who would give away twenty dollars to a poor devil’ – and then you might not bite at my bait.</span>
   <span id="f000793">But heaven took Goodson;</span>
   <span id="f000794">then I knew I was safe,</span>
   <span id="f000795">and I set my trap and baited it.</span>
   <span id="f000796">It may be that I shall not catch all the men to whom I mailed the pretended test- secret,</span>
   <span id="f000797">but I shall catch the most of them,</span>
   <span id="f000798">if I know Hadleyburg nature.</span>
   <span id="f000799">[Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000800">”Right – he got every last one of them.“] I believe they will even steal ostensible <em>gamble</em>-money,</span>
   <span id="f000801">rather than miss,</span>
   <span id="f000802">poor,</span>
   <span id="f000803">tempted,</span>
   <span id="f000804">and mistrained fellows.</span>
   <span id="f000805">I am hoping to eternally and everlastingly squelch your vanity and give Hadleyburg a new renown – one that will <em>stick</em> – and spread far.</span>
   <span id="f000806">If I have succeeded,</span>
   <span id="f000807">open the sack and summon the Committee on Propagation and Preservation of the Hadleyburg Reputation.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">A Cyclone of Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000809">“Open it!</span>
   <span id="f000810">Open it!</span>
   <span id="f000811">The Eighteen to the front!</span>
   <span id="f000812">Committee on Propagation of the Tradition!</span>
   <span id="f000813">Forward – the Incorruptibles!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000814">The Chair ripped the sack wide,</span>
   <span id="f000815">and gathered up a handful of bright,</span>
   <span id="f000816">broad,</span>
   <span id="f000817">yellow coins,</span>
   <span id="f000818">shook them together,</span>
   <span id="f000819">then examined them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000820">“Friends,</span>
   <span id="f000821">they are only gilded disks of lead!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">There was a crashing outbreak of delight over this news,</span>
   <span id="f000823">and when the noise had subsided,</span>
   <span id="f000824">the tanner called out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000825">“By right of apparent seniority in this business,</span>
   <span id="f000826">Mr.&#160;Wilson is Chairman of the Committee on Propagation of the Tradition.</span>
   <span id="f000827">I suggest that he step forward on behalf of his pals,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and receive in trust the money.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000829">A Hundred Voices.</span>
   <span id="f000830">“Wilson!</span>
   <span id="f000831">Wilson!</span>
   <span id="f000832">Wilson!</span>
   <span id="f000833">Speech!</span>
   <span id="f000834">Speech!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000835">Wilson [in a voice trembling with anger].</span>
   <span id="f000836">“You will allow me to say,</span>
   <span id="f000837">and without apologies for my language,</span>
   <span id="f000838"><em>damn</em> the money!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">A Voice.</span>
   <span id="f000840">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000841">and him a Baptist!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000842">A Voice.</span>
   <span id="f000843">“Seventeen Symbols left!</span>
   <span id="f000844">Step up,</span>
   <span id="f000845">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000846">and assume your trust!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000847">There was a pause – no response.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000848">The Saddler.</span>
   <span id="f000849">“Mr.&#160;Chairman,</span>
   <span id="f000850">we’ve got <em>one</em> clean man left,</span>
   <span id="f000851">anyway,</span>
   <span id="f000852">out of the late aristocracy;</span>
   <span id="f000853">and he needs money,</span>
   <span id="f000854">and deserves it.</span>
   <span id="f000855">I move that you appoint Jack Halliday to get up there and auction off that sack of gilt twenty-dollar pieces,</span>
   <span id="f000856">and give the result to the right man – the man whom Hadleyburg delights to honour – Edward Richards.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000857">This was received with great enthusiasm,</span>
   <span id="f000858">the dog taking a hand again;</span>
   <span id="f000859">the saddler started the bids at a dollar,</span>
   <span id="f000860">the Brixton folk and Barnum’s representative fought hard for it,</span>
   <span id="f000861">the people cheered every jump that the bids made,</span>
   <span id="f000862">the excitement climbed moment by moment higher and higher,</span>
   <span id="f000863">the bidders got on their mettle and grew steadily more and more daring,</span>
   <span id="f000864">more and more determined,</span>
   <span id="f000865">the jumps went from a dollar up to five,</span>
   <span id="f000866">then to ten,</span>
   <span id="f000867">then to twenty,</span>
   <span id="f000868">then fifty,</span>
   <span id="f000869">then to a hundred,</span>
   <span id="f000870">then –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000871">At the beginning of the auction Richards whispered in distress to his wife:</span>
   <span id="f000872">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000873">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000874">can we allow it?</span>
   <span id="f000875">It – it – you see,</span>
   <span id="f000876">it is an honour – reward,</span>
   <span id="f000877">a testimonial to purity of character,</span>
   <span id="f000878">and – and – can we allow it?</span>
   <span id="f000879">Hadn’t I better get up and – Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000880">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000881">what ought we to do?</span>
   <span id="f000882">– what do you think we – ” [Halliday’s voice.</span>
   <span id="f000883">“Fifteen I’m bid!</span>
   <span id="f000884">– fifteen for the sack!</span>
   <span id="f000885">– twenty!</span>
   <span id="f000886">– ah,</span>
   <span id="f000887">thanks!</span>
   <span id="f000888">– thirty – thanks again!</span>
   <span id="f000889">Thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000890">thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000891">thirty!</span>
   <span id="f000892">– do I hear forty?</span>
   <span id="f000893">– forty it is!</span>
   <span id="f000894">Keep the ball rolling,</span>
   <span id="f000895">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000896">keep it rolling!</span>
   <span id="f000897">– fifty!</span>
   <span id="f000898">– thanks,</span>
   <span id="f000899">noble Roman!</span>
   <span id="f000900">– going at fifty,</span>
   <span id="f000901">fifty,</span>
   <span id="f000902">fifty!</span>
   <span id="f000903">– seventy!</span>
   <span id="f000904">– ninety!</span>
   <span id="f000905">– splendid!</span>
   <span id="f000906">– a hundred!</span>
   <span id="f000907">– pile it up,</span>
   <span id="f000908">pile it up!</span>
   <span id="f000909">– hundred and twenty – forty!</span>
   <span id="f000910">– just in time!</span>
   <span id="f000911">– hundred and fifty!</span>
   <span id="f000912">– Two hundred!</span>
   <span id="f000913">– superb!</span>
   <span id="f000914">Do I hear two h – thanks!</span>
   <span id="f000915">– two hundred and fifty!</span>
   <span id="f000916">– ”]</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">“It is another temptation,</span>
   <span id="f000918">Edward – I’m all in a tremble – but,</span>
   <span id="f000919">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000920">we’ve escaped one temptation,</span>
   <span id="f000921">and that ought to warn us,</span>
   <span id="f000922">to – [”Six did I hear?</span>
   <span id="f000923">– thanks!</span>
   <span id="f000924">– six fifty,</span>
   <span id="f000925">six f – SEVEN hundred!“] And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000926">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000927">when you think – nobody susp – [”Eight hundred dollars!</span>
   <span id="f000928">– hurrah!</span>
   <span id="f000929">– make it nine!</span>
   <span id="f000930">– Mr.&#160;Parsons,</span>
   <span id="f000931">did I hear you say – thanks!</span>
   <span id="f000932">– nine!</span>
   <span id="f000933">– this noble sack of virgin lead going at only nine hundred dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000934">gilding and all – come!</span>
   <span id="f000935">do I hear – a thousand!</span>
   <span id="f000936">– gratefully yours!</span>
   <span id="f000937">– did some one say eleven?</span>
   <span id="f000938">– a sack which is going to be the most celebrated in the whole Uni – “] ”Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000939">Edward“</span>
   <span id="f000940">(beginning to sob),</span>
   <span id="f000941">”we are so poor!</span>
   <span id="f000942">– but – but – do as you think best – do as you think best."</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000943">Edward fell – that is,</span>
   <span id="f000944">he sat still;</span>
   <span id="f000945">sat with a conscience which was not satisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000946">but which was overpowered by circumstances.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000947">Meantime a stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000948">who looked like an amateur detective gotten up as an impossible English earl,</span>
   <span id="f000949">had been watching the evening’s proceedings with manifest interest,</span>
   <span id="f000950">and with a contented expression in his face;</span>
   <span id="f000951">and he had been privately commenting to himself.</span>
   <span id="f000952">He was now soliloquising somewhat like this:</span>
   <span id="f000953">“None of the Eighteen are bidding;</span>
   <span id="f000954">that is not satisfactory;</span>
   <span id="f000955">I must change that – the dramatic unities require it;</span>
   <span id="f000956">they must buy the sack they tried to steal;</span>
   <span id="f000957">they must pay a heavy price,</span>
   <span id="f000958">too – some of them are rich.</span>
   <span id="f000959">And another thing,</span>
   <span id="f000960">when I make a mistake in Hadleyburg nature the man that puts that error upon me is entitled to a high honorarium,</span>
   <span id="f000961">and some one must pay.</span>
   <span id="f000962">This poor old Richards has brought my judgment to shame;</span>
   <span id="f000963">he is an honest man:</span>
   <span id="f000964">– I don’t understand it,</span>
   <span id="f000965">but I acknowledge it.</span>
   <span id="f000966">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000967">he saw my deuces – <em>and</em> with a straight flush,</span>
   <span id="f000968">and by rights the pot is his.</span>
   <span id="f000969">And it shall be a jack-pot,</span>
   <span id="f000970">too,</span>
   <span id="f000971">if I can manage it.</span>
   <span id="f000972">He disappointed me,</span>
   <span id="f000973">but let that pass.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000974">He was watching the bidding.</span>
   <span id="f000975">At a thousand,</span>
   <span id="f000976">the market broke:</span>
   <span id="f000977">the prices tumbled swiftly.</span>
   <span id="f000978">He waited – and still watched.</span>
   <span id="f000979">One competitor dropped out;</span>
   <span id="f000980">then another,</span>
   <span id="f000981">and another.</span>
   <span id="f000982">He put in a bid or two now.</span>
   <span id="f000983">When the bids had sunk to ten dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000984">he added a five;</span>
   <span id="f000985">some one raised him a three;</span>
   <span id="f000986">he waited a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000987">then flung in a fifty-dollar jump,</span>
   <span id="f000988">and the sack was his – at $1,282.</span>
   <span id="f000989">The house broke out in cheers – then stopped;</span>
   <span id="f000990">for he was on his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000991">and had lifted his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000992">He began to speak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000993">“I desire to say a word,</span>
   <span id="f000994">and ask a favour.</span>
   <span id="f000995">I am a speculator in rarities,</span>
   <span id="f000996">and I have dealings with persons interested in numismatics all over the world.</span>
   <span id="f000997">I can make a profit on this purchase,</span>
   <span id="f000998">just as it stands;</span>
   <span id="f000999">but there is a way,</span>
   <span id="f001000">if I can get your approval,</span>
   <span id="f001001">whereby I can make every one of these leaden twenty-dollar pieces worth its face in gold,</span>
   <span id="f001002">and perhaps more.</span>
   <span id="f001003">Grant me that approval,</span>
   <span id="f001004">and I will give part of my gains to your Mr.&#160;Richards,</span>
   <span id="f001005">whose invulnerable probity you have so justly and so cordially recognised to-night;</span>
   <span id="f001006">his share shall be ten thousand dollars,</span>
   <span id="f001007">and I will hand him the money to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f001008">[Great applause from the house.</span>
   <span id="f001009">But the ”invulnerable probity“ made the Richardses blush prettily;</span>
   <span id="f001010">however,</span>
   <span id="f001011">it went for modesty,</span>
   <span id="f001012">and did no harm.] If you will pass my proposition by a good majority – I would like a two-thirds vote – I will regard that as the town’s consent,</span>
   <span id="f001013">and that is all I ask.</span>
   <span id="f001014">Rarities are always helped by any device which will rouse curiosity and compel remark.</span>
   <span id="f001015">Now if I may have your permission to stamp upon the faces of each of these ostensible coins the names of the eighteen gentlemen who – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001016">Nine-tenths of the audience were on their feet in a moment – dog and all – and the proposition was carried with a whirlwind of approving applause and laughter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001017">They sat down,</span>
   <span id="f001018">and all the Symbols except “Dr.” Clay Harkness got up,</span>
   <span id="f001019">violently protesting against the proposed outrage,</span>
   <span id="f001020">and threatening to –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001021">“I beg you not to threaten me,” said the stranger calmly.</span>
   <span id="f001022">“I know my legal rights,</span>
   <span id="f001023">and am not accustomed to being frightened at bluster.” [Applause.] He sat down.</span>
   <span id="f001024">“Dr.” Harkness saw an opportunity here.</span>
   <span id="f001025">He was one of the two very rich men of the place,</span>
   <span id="f001026">and Pinkerton was the other.</span>
   <span id="f001027">Harkness was proprietor of a mint;</span>
   <span id="f001028">that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f001029">a popular patent medicine.</span>
   <span id="f001030">He was running for the Legislature on one ticket,</span>
   <span id="f001031">and Pinkerton on the other.</span>
   <span id="f001032">It was a close race and a hot one,</span>
   <span id="f001033">and getting hotter every day.</span>
   <span id="f001034">Both had strong appetites for money;</span>
   <span id="f001035">each had bought a great tract of land,</span>
   <span id="f001036">with a purpose;</span>
   <span id="f001037">there was going to be a new railway,</span>
   <span id="f001038">and each wanted to be in the Legislature and help locate the route to his own advantage;</span>
   <span id="f001039">a single vote might make the decision,</span>
   <span id="f001040">and with it two or three fortunes.</span>
   <span id="f001041">The stake was large,</span>
   <span id="f001042">and Harkness was a daring speculator.</span>
   <span id="f001043">He was sitting close to the stranger.</span>
   <span id="f001044">He leaned over while one or another of the other Symbols was entertaining the house with protests and appeals,</span>
   <span id="f001045">and asked,</span>
   <span id="f001046">in a whisper,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001047">“What is your price for the sack?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001048">“Forty thousand dollars.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001049">“I’ll give you twenty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001050">“No.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001051">“Twenty-five.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001052">“No.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001053">“Say thirty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001054">“The price is forty thousand dollars;</span>
   <span id="f001055">not a penny less.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001056">“All right,</span>
   <span id="f001057">I’ll give it.</span>
   <span id="f001058">I will come to the hotel at ten in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f001059">I don’t want it known;</span>
   <span id="f001060">will see you privately.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001061">“Very good.” Then the stranger got up and said to the house:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001062">“I find it late.</span>
   <span id="f001063">The speeches of these gentlemen are not without merit,</span>
   <span id="f001064">not without interest,</span>
   <span id="f001065">not without grace;</span>
   <span id="f001066">yet if I may he excused I will take my leave.</span>
   <span id="f001067">I thank you for the great favour which you have shown me in granting my petition.</span>
   <span id="f001068">I ask the Chair to keep the sack for me until to-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f001069">and to hand these three five-hundred-dollar notes to Mr.&#160;Richards.” They were passed up to the Chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001070">“At nine I will call for the sack,</span>
   <span id="f001071">and at eleven will deliver the rest of the ten thousand to Mr.&#160;Richards in person at his home.</span>
   <span id="f001072">Good-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001073">Then he slipped out,</span>
   <span id="f001074">and left the audience making a vast noise,</span>
   <span id="f001075">which was composed of a mixture of cheers,</span>
   <span id="f001076">the “Mikado” song,</span>
   <span id="f001077">dog-disapproval,</span>
   <span id="f001078">and the chant,</span>
   <span id="f001079">“You are f-a-r from being a b-a-a-d man – a-a-a a-men!”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

