<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">At home the Richardses had to endure congratulations and compliments until midnight.</span>
   <span id="f000003">Then they were left to themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000004">They looked a little sad,</span>
   <span id="f000005">and they sat silent and thinking.</span>
   <span id="f000006">Finally Mary sighed and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000007">“Do you think we are to blame,</span>
   <span id="f000008">Edward – <em>much</em> to blame?” and her eyes wandered to the accusing triplet of big bank-notes lying on the table,</span>
   <span id="f000009">where the congratulators had been gloating over them and reverently fingering them.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Edward did not answer at once;</span>
   <span id="f000011">then he brought out a sigh and said,</span>
   <span id="f000012">hesitatingly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">“We – we couldn’t help it,</span>
   <span id="f000014">Mary.</span>
   <span id="f000015">It – well it was ordered.</span>
   <span id="f000016"><em>All</em> things are.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">Mary glanced up and looked at him steadily,</span>
   <span id="f000018">but he didn’t return the look.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Presently she said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">“I thought congratulations and praises always tasted good.</span>
   <span id="f000021">But – it seems to me,</span>
   <span id="f000022">now – Edward?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">“Well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">“Are you going to stay in the bank?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">“N – no.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“Resign?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">“In the morning – by note.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">“It does seem best.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">Richards bowed his head in his hands and muttered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“Before I was not afraid to let oceans of people’s money pour through my hands,</span>
   <span id="f000031">but – Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000032">I am so tired,</span>
   <span id="f000033">so tired – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“We will go to bed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">At nine in the morning the stranger called for the sack and took it to the hotel in a cab.</span>
   <span id="f000036">At ten Harkness had a talk with him privately.</span>
   <span id="f000037">The stranger asked for and got five cheques on a metropolitan bank – drawn to “Bearer,” – four for $1,500 each,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and one for $34,000.</span>
   <span id="f000039">He put one of the former in his pocket-book,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and the remainder,</span>
   <span id="f000041">representing $38,500,</span>
   <span id="f000042">he put in an envelope,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and with these he added a note which he wrote after Harkness was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000044">At eleven he called at the Richards’ house and knocked.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Mrs.&#160;Richards peeped through the shutters,</span>
   <span id="f000046">then went and received the envelope,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and the stranger disappeared without a word.</span>
   <span id="f000048">She came back flushed and a little unsteady on her legs,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and gasped out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“I am sure I recognised him!</span>
   <span id="f000051">Last night it seemed to me that maybe I had seen him somewhere before.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“He is the man that brought the sack here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“I am almost sure of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“Then he is the ostensible Stephenson too,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and sold every important citizen in this town with his bogus secret.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Now if he has sent cheques instead of money,</span>
   <span id="f000057">we are sold too,</span>
   <span id="f000058">after we thought we had escaped.</span>
   <span id="f000059">I was beginning to feel fairly comfortable once more,</span>
   <span id="f000060">after my night’s rest,</span>
   <span id="f000061">but the look of that envelope makes me sick.</span>
   <span id="f000062">It isn’t fat enough;</span>
   <span id="f000063">$8,500 in even the largest bank-notes makes more bulk than that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000065">why do you object to cheques?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“Cheques signed by Stephenson!</span>
   <span id="f000067">I am resigned to take the $8,500 if it could come in bank-notes – for it does seem that it was so ordered,</span>
   <span id="f000068">Mary – but I have never had much courage,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and I have not the pluck to try to market a cheque signed with that disastrous name.</span>
   <span id="f000070">It would be a trap.</span>
   <span id="f000071">That man tried to catch me;</span>
   <span id="f000072">we escaped somehow or other;</span>
   <span id="f000073">and now he is trying a new way.</span>
   <span id="f000074">If it is cheques – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000076">Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000077">it is <em>too</em> bad!” And she held up the cheques and began to cry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“Put them in the fire!</span>
   <span id="f000079">quick!</span>
   <span id="f000080">we mustn’t be tempted.</span>
   <span id="f000081">It is a trick to make the world laugh at <em>us</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000082">along with the rest,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and – Give them to <em>me</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000084">since you can’t do it!” He snatched them and tried to hold his grip till he could get to the stove;</span>
   <span id="f000085">but he was human,</span>
   <span id="f000086">he was a cashier,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and he stopped a moment to make sure of the signature.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Then he came near to fainting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">“Fan me,</span>
   <span id="f000090">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000091">fan me!</span>
   <span id="f000092">They are the same as gold!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000094">how lovely,</span>
   <span id="f000095">Edward!</span>
   <span id="f000096">Why?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“Signed by Harkness.</span>
   <span id="f000098">What can the mystery of that be,</span>
   <span id="f000099">Mary?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“Edward,</span>
   <span id="f000101">do you think – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“Look here – look at this!</span>
   <span id="f000103">Fifteen – fifteen – fifteen – thirty-four.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Thirty- eight thousand five hundred!</span>
   <span id="f000105">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000106">the sack isn’t worth twelve dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and Harkness – apparently – has paid about par for it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“And does it all come to us,</span>
   <span id="f000109">do you think – instead of the ten thousand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000111">it looks like it.</span>
   <span id="f000112">And the cheques are made to ’Bearer,’ too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“Is that good,</span>
   <span id="f000114">Edward?</span>
   <span id="f000115">What is it for?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“A hint to collect them at some distant bank,</span>
   <span id="f000117">I reckon.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Perhaps Harkness doesn’t want the matter known.</span>
   <span id="f000119">What is that – a note?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000121">It was with the cheques.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">It was in the “Stephenson” handwriting,</span>
   <span id="f000123">but there was no signature.</span>
   <span id="f000124">It said:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000125">“I am a disappointed man.</span>
   <span id="f000126">Your honesty is beyond the reach of temptation.</span>
   <span id="f000127">I had a different idea about it,</span>
   <span id="f000128">but I wronged you in that,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and I beg pardon,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and do it sincerely.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I honour you – and that is sincere too.</span>
   <span id="f000132">This town is not worthy to kiss the hem of your garment.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Dear sir,</span>
   <span id="f000134">I made a square bet with myself that there were nineteen debauchable men in your self-righteous community.</span>
   <span id="f000135">I have lost.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Take the whole pot,</span>
   <span id="f000137">you are entitled to it.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000138">Richards drew a deep sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“It seems written with fire – it burns so.</span>
   <span id="f000141">Mary – I am miserable again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“I,</span>
   <span id="f000143">too.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000145">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000146">I wish – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“To think,</span>
   <span id="f000148">Mary – he <em>believes</em> in me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000150">don’t,</span>
   <span id="f000151">Edward – I can’t bear it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“If those beautiful words were deserved,</span>
   <span id="f000153">Mary – and God knows I believed I deserved them once – I think I could give the forty thousand dollars for them.</span>
   <span id="f000154">And I would put that paper away,</span>
   <span id="f000155">as representing more than gold and jewels,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and keep it always.</span>
   <span id="f000157">But now – We could not live in the shadow of its accusing presence,</span>
   <span id="f000158">Mary.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">He put it in the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">A messenger arrived and delivered an envelope.</span>
   <span id="f000161">Richards took from it a note and read it;</span>
   <span id="f000162">it was from Burgess:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000163">“You saved me,</span>
   <span id="f000164">in a difficult time.</span>
   <span id="f000165">I saved you last night.</span>
   <span id="f000166">It was at cost of a lie,</span>
   <span id="f000167">but I made the sacrifice freely,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and out of a grateful heart.</span>
   <span id="f000169">None in this village knows so well as I know how brave and good and noble you are.</span>
   <span id="f000170">At bottom you cannot respect me,</span>
   <span id="f000171">knowing as you do of that matter of which I am accused,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and by the general voice condemned;</span>
   <span id="f000173">but I beg that you will at least believe that I am a grateful man;</span>
   <span id="f000174">it will help me to bear my burden.</span>
   <span id="f000175">[Signed] ’BURGESS.’”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000176">“Saved,</span>
   <span id="f000177">once more.</span>
   <span id="f000178">And on such terms!” He put the note in the lire.</span>
   <span id="f000179">“I – I wish I were dead,</span>
   <span id="f000180">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000181">I wish I were out of it all!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000183">these are bitter,</span>
   <span id="f000184">bitter days,</span>
   <span id="f000185">Edward.</span>
   <span id="f000186">The stabs,</span>
   <span id="f000187">through their very generosity,</span>
   <span id="f000188">are so deep – and they come so fast!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">Three days before the election each of two thousand voters suddenly found himself in possession of a prized memento – one of the renowned bogus double-eagles.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Around one of its faces was stamped these words:</span>
   <span id="f000191">“THE REMARK I MADE TO THE POOR STRANGER WAS – ” Around the other face was stamped these:</span>
   <span id="f000192">“GO,</span>
   <span id="f000193">AND REFORM.</span>
   <span id="f000194">[SIGNED] PINKERTON.” Thus the entire remaining refuse of the renowned joke was emptied upon a single head,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and with calamitous effect.</span>
   <span id="f000196">It revived the recent vast laugh and concentrated it upon Pinkerton;</span>
   <span id="f000197">and Harkness’s election was a walk-over.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">Within twenty-four hours after the Richardses had received their cheques their consciences were quieting down,</span>
   <span id="f000199">discouraged;</span>
   <span id="f000200">the old couple were learning to reconcile themselves to the sin which they had committed.</span>
   <span id="f000201">But they were to learn,</span>
   <span id="f000202">now,</span>
   <span id="f000203">that a sin takes on new and real terrors when there seems a chance that it is going to be found out.</span>
   <span id="f000204">This gives it a fresh and most substantial and important aspect.</span>
   <span id="f000205">At church the morning sermon was of the usual pattern;</span>
   <span id="f000206">it was the same old things said in the same old way;</span>
   <span id="f000207">they had heard them a thousand times and found them innocuous,</span>
   <span id="f000208">next to meaningless,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and easy to sleep under;</span>
   <span id="f000210">but now it was different:</span>
   <span id="f000211">the sermon seemed to bristle with accusations;</span>
   <span id="f000212">it seemed aimed straight and specially at people who were concealing deadly sins.</span>
   <span id="f000213">After church they got away from the mob of congratulators as soon as they could,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and hurried homeward,</span>
   <span id="f000215">chilled to the bone at they did not know what – vague,</span>
   <span id="f000216">shadowy,</span>
   <span id="f000217">indefinite fears.</span>
   <span id="f000218">And by chance they caught a glimpse of Mr.&#160;Burgess as he turned a corner.</span>
   <span id="f000219">He paid no attention to their nod of recognition!</span>
   <span id="f000220">He hadn’t seen it;</span>
   <span id="f000221">but they did not know that.</span>
   <span id="f000222">What could his conduct mean?</span>
   <span id="f000223">It might mean – it might – mean – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000224">a dozen dreadful things.</span>
   <span id="f000225">Was it possible that he knew that Richards could have cleared him of guilt in that bygone time,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and had been silently waiting for a chance to even up accounts?</span>
   <span id="f000227">At home,</span>
   <span id="f000228">in their distress they got to imagining that their servant might have been in the next room listening when Richards revealed the secret to his wife that he knew of Burgess’s innocence;</span>
   <span id="f000229">next Richards began to imagine that he had heard the swish of a gown in there at that time;</span>
   <span id="f000230">next,</span>
   <span id="f000231">he was sure he <em>had</em> heard it.</span>
   <span id="f000232">They would call Sarah in,</span>
   <span id="f000233">on a pretext,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and watch her face;</span>
   <span id="f000235">if she had been betraying them to Mr.&#160;Burgess,</span>
   <span id="f000236">it would show in her manner.</span>
   <span id="f000237">They asked her some questions – questions which were so random and incoherent and seemingly purposeless that the girl felt sure that the old people’s minds had been affected by their sudden good fortune;</span>
   <span id="f000238">the sharp and watchful gaze which they bent upon her frightened her,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and that completed the business.</span>
   <span id="f000240">She blushed,</span>
   <span id="f000241">she became nervous and confused,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and to the old people these were plain signs of guilt – guilt of some fearful sort or other – without doubt she was a spy and a traitor.</span>
   <span id="f000243">When they were alone again they began to piece many unrelated things together and get horrible results out of the combination.</span>
   <span id="f000244">When things had got about to the worst Richards was delivered of a sudden gasp and his wife asked:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000246">what is it?</span>
   <span id="f000247">– what is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“The note – Burgess’s note!</span>
   <span id="f000249">Its language was sarcastic,</span>
   <span id="f000250">I see it now.” He quoted:</span>
   <span id="f000251">“’At bottom you cannot respect me,</span>
   <span id="f000252"><em>knowing</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000253">as you do,</span>
   <span id="f000254">of <em>that matter of</em> which I am accused’ – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000255">it is perfectly plain,</span>
   <span id="f000256">now,</span>
   <span id="f000257">God help me!</span>
   <span id="f000258">He knows that I know!</span>
   <span id="f000259">You see the ingenuity of the phrasing.</span>
   <span id="f000260">It was a trap – and like a fool,</span>
   <span id="f000261">I walked into it.</span>
   <span id="f000262">And Mary – !”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000264">it is dreadful – I know what you are going to say – he didn’t return your transcript of the pretended test-remark.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“No – kept it to destroy us with.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000267">he has exposed us to some already.</span>
   <span id="f000268">I know it – I know it well.</span>
   <span id="f000269">I saw it in a dozen faces after church.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000271">he wouldn’t answer our nod of recognition – he knew what he had been doing!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">In the night the doctor was called.</span>
   <span id="f000273">The news went around in the morning that the old couple were rather seriously ill – prostrated by the exhausting excitement growing out of their great windfall,</span>
   <span id="f000274">the congratulations,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and the late hours,</span>
   <span id="f000276">the doctor said.</span>
   <span id="f000277">The town was sincerely distressed;</span>
   <span id="f000278">for these old people were about all it had left to be proud of,</span>
   <span id="f000279">now.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">Two days later the news was worse.</span>
   <span id="f000281">The old couple were delirious,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and were doing strange things.</span>
   <span id="f000283">By witness of the nurses,</span>
   <span id="f000284">Richards had exhibited cheques – for $8,500?</span>
   <span id="f000285">No – for an amazing sum – $38,500!</span>
   <span id="f000286">What could be the explanation of this gigantic piece of luck?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">The following day the nurses had more news – and wonderful.</span>
   <span id="f000288">They had concluded to hide the cheques,</span>
   <span id="f000289">lest harm come to them;</span>
   <span id="f000290">but when they searched they were gone from under the patient’s pillow – vanished away.</span>
   <span id="f000291">The patient said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">“Let the pillow alone;</span>
   <span id="f000293">what do you want?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">“We thought it best that the cheques – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“You will never see them again – they are destroyed.</span>
   <span id="f000296">They came from Satan.</span>
   <span id="f000297">I saw the hell-brand on them,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and I knew they were sent to betray me to sin.” Then he fell to gabbling strange and dreadful things which were not clearly understandable,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and which the doctor admonished them to keep to themselves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">Richards was right;</span>
   <span id="f000301">the cheques were never seen again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">A nurse must have talked in her sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000303">for within two days the forbidden gabblings were the property of the town;</span>
   <span id="f000304">and they were of a surprising sort.</span>
   <span id="f000305">They seemed to indicate that Richards had been a claimant for the sack himself,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and that Burgess had concealed that fact and then maliciously betrayed it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">Burgess was taxed with this and stoutly denied it.</span>
   <span id="f000308">And he said it was not fair to attach weight to the chatter of a sick old man who was out of his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000310">suspicion was in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and there was much talk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">After a day or two it was reported that Mrs.&#160;Richards’s delirious deliveries were getting to be duplicates of her husband’s.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Suspicion flamed up into conviction,</span>
   <span id="f000314">now,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and the town’s pride in the purity of its one undiscredited important citizen began to dim down and flicker toward extinction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">Six days passed,</span>
   <span id="f000317">then came more news.</span>
   <span id="f000318">The old couple were dying.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Richards’s mind cleared in his latest hour,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and he sent for Burgess.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Burgess said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“Let the room be cleared.</span>
   <span id="f000323">I think he wishes to say something in privacy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">“No!” said Richards;</span>
   <span id="f000325">“I want witnesses.</span>
   <span id="f000326">I want you all to hear my confession,</span>
   <span id="f000327">so that I may die a man,</span>
   <span id="f000328">and not a dog.</span>
   <span id="f000329">I was clean – artificially – like the rest;</span>
   <span id="f000330">and like the rest I fell when temptation came.</span>
   <span id="f000331">I signed a lie,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and claimed the miserable sack.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Mr.&#160;Burgess remembered that I had done him a service,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and in gratitude</span>
   <span id="f000335">(and ignorance)</span>
   <span id="f000336">he suppressed my claim and saved me.</span>
   <span id="f000337">You know the thing that was charged against Burgess years ago.</span>
   <span id="f000338">My testimony,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and mine alone,</span>
   <span id="f000340">could have cleared him,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and I was a coward and left him to suffer disgrace – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">“No – no – Mr.&#160;Richards,</span>
   <span id="f000343">you – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">“My servant betrayed my secret to him – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">“No one has betrayed anything to me – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">– “And then he did a natural and justifiable thing;</span>
   <span id="f000347">he repented of the saving kindness which he had done me,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and he <em>exposed</em> me – as I deserved – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“Never!</span>
   <span id="f000350">– I make oath – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“Out of my heart I forgive him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">Burgess’s impassioned protestations fell upon deaf ears;</span>
   <span id="f000353">the dying man passed away without knowing that once more he had done poor Burgess a wrong.</span>
   <span id="f000354">The old wife died that night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">The last of the sacred Nineteen had fallen a prey to the fiendish sack;</span>
   <span id="f000356">the town was stripped of the last rag of its ancient glory.</span>
   <span id="f000357">Its mourning was not showy,</span>
   <span id="f000358">but it was deep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">By act of the Legislature – upon prayer and petition – Hadleyburg was allowed to change its name to</span>
   <span id="f000360">(never mind what – I will not give it away),</span>
   <span id="f000361">and leave one word out of the motto that for many generations had graced the town’s official seal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000362">It is an honest town once more,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and the man will have to rise early that catches it napping again.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

