<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Julie VW</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Psychology</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Katherine Mansfield</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">When she opened the door and saw him standing there she was more pleased than ever before,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and he,</span>
   <span id="f000009">too,</span>
   <span id="f000010">as he followed her into the studio,</span>
   <span id="f000011">seemed very very happy to have come.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">“Not busy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Just going to have tea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">“And you are not expecting anybody?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">“Nobody at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000018">That’s good.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">He laid aside his coat and hat gently,</span>
   <span id="f000020">lingeringly,</span>
   <span id="f000021">as though he had time and to spare for everything,</span>
   <span id="f000022">or as though he were taking leave of them for ever,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and came over to the fire and held out his hands to the quick,</span>
   <span id="f000024">leaping flame.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">Just for a moment both of them stood silent in that leaping light.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000027">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000028">they tasted on their smiling lips the sweet shock of their greeting.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Their secret selves whispered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“Why should we speak?</span>
   <span id="f000031">Isn’t this enough?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">“More than enough.</span>
   <span id="f000033">I never realized until this moment …</span>
   <span id="f000034">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">“How good it is just to be with you…</span>
   <span id="f000036">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">“Like this…</span>
   <span id="f000038">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“It’s more than enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">But suddenly he turned and looked at her and she moved quickly away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">“Have a cigarette?</span>
   <span id="f000042">I’ll put the kettle on.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Are you longing for tea?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“No.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Not longing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000047">I am.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000049">you.” He thumped the Armenian cushion and flung on to the <em>sommier</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000050">“You’re a perfect little Chinee.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000052">I am,” she laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“I long for tea as strong men long for wine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">She lighted the lamp under its broad orange shade,</span>
   <span id="f000055">pulled the curtains,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and drew up the tea table.</span>
   <span id="f000057">Two birds sang in the kettle;</span>
   <span id="f000058">the fire fluttered.</span>
   <span id="f000059">He sat up clasping his knees.</span>
   <span id="f000060">It was delightful–this business of having tea–and she always had delicious things to eat–little sharp sandwiches,</span>
   <span id="f000061">short sweet almond fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and a dark,</span>
   <span id="f000063">rich cake tasting of rum–but it was an interruption.</span>
   <span id="f000064">He wanted it over,</span>
   <span id="f000065">the table pushed away,</span>
   <span id="f000066">their two chairs drawn up to the light,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and the moment came when he took out his pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000068">filled it,</span>
   <span id="f000069">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000070">pressing the tobacco tight into the bowl:</span>
   <span id="f000071">“I have been thinking over what you said last time and it seems to me…</span>
   <span id="f000072">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000074">that was what he waited for and so did she.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000076">while she shook the teapot hot and dry over the spirit flame she saw those other two,</span>
   <span id="f000077">him,</span>
   <span id="f000078">leaning back,</span>
   <span id="f000079">taking his ease among the cushions,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and her,</span>
   <span id="f000081">curled up en escargot in the blue shell arm-chair.</span>
   <span id="f000082">The picture was so clear and so minute it might have been painted on the blue teapot lid.</span>
   <span id="f000083">And yet she couldn’t hurry.</span>
   <span id="f000084">She could almost have cried:</span>
   <span id="f000085">“Give me time.” She must have time in which to grow calm.</span>
   <span id="f000086">She wanted time in which to free herself from all these familiar things with which she lived so vividly.</span>
   <span id="f000087">For all these gay things round her were part of her–her offspring–and they knew it and made the largest,</span>
   <span id="f000088">most vehement claims.</span>
   <span id="f000089">But now they must go.</span>
   <span id="f000090">They must be swept away,</span>
   <span id="f000091">shooed away–like children,</span>
   <span id="f000092">sent up the shadowy stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000093">packed into bed,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and commanded to go to sleep–at once–without a murmur!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">For the special thrilling quality of their friendship was in their complete surrender.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Like two open cities in the midst of some vast plain their two minds lay open to each other.</span>
   <span id="f000097">And it wasn’t as if he rode into hers like a conqueror,</span>
   <span id="f000098">armed to the eyebrows and seeing nothing but a gay silken flutter–nor did she enter his like a queen walking soft on petals.</span>
   <span id="f000099">No,</span>
   <span id="f000100">they were eager,</span>
   <span id="f000101">serious travellers,</span>
   <span id="f000102">absorbed in understanding what was to be seen and discovering what was hidden–making the most of this extraordinary absolute chance which made it possible for him to be utterly truthful to her and for her to be utterly sincere with him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">And the best of it was they were both of them old enough to enjoy their adventure to the full without any stupid emotional complication.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Passion would have ruined everything;</span>
   <span id="f000105">they quite saw that.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000107">all that sort of thing was over and done with for both of them–he was thirty-one,</span>
   <span id="f000108">she was thirty–they had had their experiences,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and very rich and varied they had been,</span>
   <span id="f000110">but now was the time for harvest–harvest.</span>
   <span id="f000111">Weren’t his novels to be very big novels indeed?</span>
   <span id="f000112">And her plays.</span>
   <span id="f000113">Who else had her exquisite sense of real English Comedy?…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">Carefully she cut the cake into thick little wads and he reached across for a piece.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“Do you realize how good it is,” she implored.</span>
   <span id="f000116">“Eat it imaginatively.</span>
   <span id="f000117">Roll your eyes if you can and taste it on the breath.</span>
   <span id="f000118">It’s not a sandwich from the hatter’s bag–it’s the kind of cake that might have been mentioned in the Book of Genesis…</span>
   <span id="f000119">And God said:</span>
   <span id="f000120">’Let there be cake.</span>
   <span id="f000121">And there was cake.</span>
   <span id="f000122">And God saw that it was good.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">“You needn’t entreat me,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000124">“Really you needn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000125">It’s a queer thing but I always do notice what I eat here and never anywhere else.</span>
   <span id="f000126">I suppose it comes of living alone so long and always reading while I feed …</span>
   <span id="f000127">my habit of looking upon food as just food …</span>
   <span id="f000128">something that’s there,</span>
   <span id="f000129">at certain times …</span>
   <span id="f000130">to be devoured …</span>
   <span id="f000131">to be …</span>
   <span id="f000132">not there.” He laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000133">“That shocks you.</span>
   <span id="f000134">Doesn’t it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“To the bone,” said she.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">“But–look here–” He pushed away his cup and began to speak very fast.</span>
   <span id="f000137">“I simply haven’t got any external life at all.</span>
   <span id="f000138">I don’t know the names of things a bit–trees and so on–and I never notice places or furniture or what people look like.</span>
   <span id="f000139">One room is just like another to me–a place to sit and read or talk in–except,” and here he paused,</span>
   <span id="f000140">smiled in a strange naive way,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000142">“except this studio.” He looked round him and then at her;</span>
   <span id="f000143">he laughed in his astonishment and pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000144">He was like a man who wakes up in a train to find that he has arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000145">already,</span>
   <span id="f000146">at the journey’s end.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“Here’s another queer thing.</span>
   <span id="f000148">If I shut my eyes I can see this place down to every detail–every detail…</span>
   <span id="f000149">Now I come to think of it–I’ve never realized this consciously before.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Often when I am away from here I revisit it in spirit– wander about among your red chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000151">stare at the bowl of fruit on the black table–and just touch,</span>
   <span id="f000152">very lightly,</span>
   <span id="f000153">that marvel of a sleeping boy’s head.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">He looked at it as he spoke.</span>
   <span id="f000155">It stood on the corner of the mantelpiece;</span>
   <span id="f000156">the head to one side down-drooping,</span>
   <span id="f000157">the lips parted,</span>
   <span id="f000158">as though in his sleep the little boy listened to some sweet sound…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“I love that little boy,” he murmured.</span>
   <span id="f000160">And then they both were silent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">A new silence came between them.</span>
   <span id="f000162">Nothing in the least like the satisfactory pause that had followed their greetings– the “Well,</span>
   <span id="f000163">here we are together again,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and there’s no reason why we shouldn’t go on from just where we left off last time.” That silence could be contained in the circle of warm,</span>
   <span id="f000165">delightful fire and lamplight.</span>
   <span id="f000166">How many times hadn’t they flung something into it just for the fun of watching the ripples break on the easy shores.</span>
   <span id="f000167">But into this unfamiliar pool the head of the little boy sleeping his timeless sleep dropped–and the ripples flowed away,</span>
   <span id="f000168">away–boundlessly far–into deep glittering darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">And then both of them broke it.</span>
   <span id="f000170">She said:</span>
   <span id="f000171">“I must make up the fire,” and he said:</span>
   <span id="f000172">“I have been trying a new …</span>
   <span id="f000173">” Both of them escaped.</span>
   <span id="f000174">She made up the fire and put the table back,</span>
   <span id="f000175">the blue chair was wheeled forward,</span>
   <span id="f000176">she curled up and he lay back among the cushions.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Quickly!</span>
   <span id="f000178">Quickly!</span>
   <span id="f000179">They must stop it from happening again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000181">I read the book you left last time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000183">what do you think of it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">They were off and all was as usual.</span>
   <span id="f000185">But was it?</span>
   <span id="f000186">Weren’t they just a little too quick,</span>
   <span id="f000187">too prompt with their replies,</span>
   <span id="f000188">too ready to take each other up?</span>
   <span id="f000189">Was this really anything more than a wonderfully good imitation of other occasions?</span>
   <span id="f000190">His heart beat;</span>
   <span id="f000191">her cheek burned and the stupid thing was she could not discover where exactly they were or what exactly was happening.</span>
   <span id="f000192">She hadn’t time to glance back.</span>
   <span id="f000193">And just as she had got so far it happened again.</span>
   <span id="f000194">They faltered,</span>
   <span id="f000195">wavered,</span>
   <span id="f000196">broke down,</span>
   <span id="f000197">were silent.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Again they were conscious of the boundless,</span>
   <span id="f000199">questioning dark.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Again,</span>
   <span id="f000201">there they were–two hunters,</span>
   <span id="f000202">bending over their fire,</span>
   <span id="f000203">but hearing suddenly from the jungle beyond a shake of wind and a loud,</span>
   <span id="f000204">questioning cry …</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">She lifted her head.</span>
   <span id="f000206">“It’s raining,” she murmured.</span>
   <span id="f000207">And her voice was like his when he had said:</span>
   <span id="f000208">“I love that little boy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">Well.</span>
   <span id="f000210">Why didn’t they just give way to it–yield–and see what will happen then?</span>
   <span id="f000211">But no.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Vague and troubled though they were,</span>
   <span id="f000213">they knew enough to realize their precious friendship was in danger.</span>
   <span id="f000214">She was the one who would be destroyed–not they–and they’d be no party to that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">He got up,</span>
   <span id="f000216">knocked out his pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000217">ran his hand through his hair,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000219">“I have been wondering very much lately whether the novel of the future will be a psychological novel or not.</span>
   <span id="f000220">How sure are you that psychology qua psychology has got anything to do with literature at all?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">“Do you mean you feel there’s quite a chance that the mysterious non-existent creatures–the young writers of to-day–are trying simply to jump the psycho-analyst’s claim?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000223">I do.</span>
   <span id="f000224">And I think it’s because this generation is just wise enough to know that it is sick and to realize that its only chance of recovery is by going into its symptoms–making an exhaustive study of them–tracking them down–trying to get at the root of the trouble.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“But oh,” she wailed.</span>
   <span id="f000226">“What a dreadfully dismal outlook.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“Not at all,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000228">“Look here …</span>
   <span id="f000229">” On the talk went.</span>
   <span id="f000230">And now it seemed they really had succeeded.</span>
   <span id="f000231">She turned in her chair to look at him while she answered.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Her smile said:</span>
   <span id="f000233">“We have won.” And he smiled back,</span>
   <span id="f000234">confident:</span>
   <span id="f000235">“Absolutely.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">But the smile undid them.</span>
   <span id="f000237">It lasted too long;</span>
   <span id="f000238">it became a grin.</span>
   <span id="f000239">They saw themselves as two little grinning puppets jigging away in nothingness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">“What have we been talking about?” thought he.</span>
   <span id="f000241">He was so utterly bored he almost groaned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">“What a spectacle we have made of ourselves,” thought she.</span>
   <span id="f000243">And she saw him laboriously–oh,</span>
   <span id="f000244">laboriously–laying out the grounds and herself running after,</span>
   <span id="f000245">puffing here a tree and there a flowery shrub and here a handful of glittering fish in a pool.</span>
   <span id="f000246">They were silent this time from sheer dismay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">The clock struck six merry little pings and the fire made a soft flutter.</span>
   <span id="f000248">What fools they were–heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000249">stodgy,</span>
   <span id="f000250">elderly–with positively upholstered minds.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">And now the silence put a spell upon them like solemn music.</span>
   <span id="f000252">It was anguish–anguish for her to bear it and he would die–he’d die if it were broken…</span>
   <span id="f000253">And yet he longed to break it.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Not by speech.</span>
   <span id="f000255">At any rate not by their ordinary maddening chatter.</span>
   <span id="f000256">There was another way for them to speak to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and in the new way he wanted to murmur:</span>
   <span id="f000258">“Do you feel this too?</span>
   <span id="f000259">Do you understand it at all?” …</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">Instead,</span>
   <span id="f000261">to his horror,</span>
   <span id="f000262">he heard himself say:</span>
   <span id="f000263">“I must be off;</span>
   <span id="f000264">I’m meeting Brand at six.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">What devil made him say that instead of the other?</span>
   <span id="f000266">She jumped–simply jumped out of her chair,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and he heard her crying:</span>
   <span id="f000268">“You must rush,</span>
   <span id="f000269">then.</span>
   <span id="f000270">He’s so punctual.</span>
   <span id="f000271">Why didn’t you say so before?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">“You’ve hurt me;</span>
   <span id="f000273">you’ve hurt me!</span>
   <span id="f000274">We’ve failed!” said her secret self while she handed him his hat and stick,</span>
   <span id="f000275">smiling gaily.</span>
   <span id="f000276">She wouldn’t give him a moment for another word,</span>
   <span id="f000277">but ran along the passage and opened the big outer door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">Could they leave each other like this?</span>
   <span id="f000279">How could they?</span>
   <span id="f000280">He stood on the step and she just inside holding the door.</span>
   <span id="f000281">It was not raining now.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“You’ve hurt me–hurt me,” said her heart.</span>
   <span id="f000283">“Why don’t you go?</span>
   <span id="f000284">No,</span>
   <span id="f000285">don’t go.</span>
   <span id="f000286">Stay.</span>
   <span id="f000287">No–go!” And she looked out upon the night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">She saw the beautiful fall of the steps,</span>
   <span id="f000289">the dark garden ringed with glittering ivy,</span>
   <span id="f000290">on the other side of the road the huge bare willows and above them the sky big and bright with stars.</span>
   <span id="f000291">But of course he would see nothing of all this.</span>
   <span id="f000292">He was superior to it all.</span>
   <span id="f000293">He–with his wonderful “spiritual” vision!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">She was right.</span>
   <span id="f000295">He did see nothing at all.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Misery!</span>
   <span id="f000297">He’d missed it.</span>
   <span id="f000298">It was too late to do anything now.</span>
   <span id="f000299">Was it too late?</span>
   <span id="f000300">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000301">it was.</span>
   <span id="f000302">A cold snatch of hateful wind blew into the garden.</span>
   <span id="f000303">Curse life!</span>
   <span id="f000304">He heard her cry “au revoir” and the door slammed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">Running back into the studio she behaved so strangely.</span>
   <span id="f000306">She ran up and down lifting her arms and crying:</span>
   <span id="f000307">“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000308">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000309">How stupid!</span>
   <span id="f000310">How imbecile!</span>
   <span id="f000311">How stupid!” And then she flung herself down on the <em>sommier</em> thinking of nothing–just lying there in her rage.</span>
   <span id="f000312">All was over.</span>
   <span id="f000313">What was over?</span>
   <span id="f000314">Oh–something was.</span>
   <span id="f000315">And she’d never see him again–never.</span>
   <span id="f000316">After a long long time</span>
   <span id="f000317">(or perhaps ten minutes)</span>
   <span id="f000318">had passed in that black gulf her bell rang a sharp quick jingle.</span>
   <span id="f000319">It was he,</span>
   <span id="f000320">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000321">And equally,</span>
   <span id="f000322">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000323">she oughtn’t to have paid the slightest attention to it but just let it go on ringing and ringing.</span>
   <span id="f000324">She flew to answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">On the doorstep there stood an elderly virgin,</span>
   <span id="f000326">a pathetic creature who simply idolized her</span>
   <span id="f000327">(heaven knows why)</span>
   <span id="f000328">and had this habit of turning up and ringing the bell and then saying,</span>
   <span id="f000329">when she opened the door:</span>
   <span id="f000330">“My dear,</span>
   <span id="f000331">send me away!” She never did.</span>
   <span id="f000332">As a rule she asked her in and let her admire everything and accepted the bunch of slightly soiled looking flowers–more than graciously.</span>
   <span id="f000333">But to-day…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000335">I am so sorry,” she cried.</span>
   <span id="f000336">“But I’ve got someone with me.</span>
   <span id="f000337">We are working on some wood-cuts.</span>
   <span id="f000338">I’m hopelessly busy all evening.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“It doesn’t matter.</span>
   <span id="f000340">It doesn’t matter at all,</span>
   <span id="f000341">darling,” said the good friend.</span>
   <span id="f000342">“I was just passing and I thought I’d leave you some violets.” She fumbled down among the ribs of a large old umbrella.</span>
   <span id="f000343">“I put them down here.</span>
   <span id="f000344">Such a good place to keep flowers out of the wind.</span>
   <span id="f000345">Here they are,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000346">shaking out a little dead bunch.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">For a moment she did not take the violets.</span>
   <span id="f000348">But while she stood just inside,</span>
   <span id="f000349">holding the door,</span>
   <span id="f000350">a strange thing happened.</span>
   <span id="f000351">Again she saw the beautiful fall of the steps,</span>
   <span id="f000352">the dark garden ringed with glittering ivy,</span>
   <span id="f000353">the willows,</span>
   <span id="f000354">the big bright sky.</span>
   <span id="f000355">Again she felt the silence that was like a question.</span>
   <span id="f000356">But this time she did not hesitate.</span>
   <span id="f000357">She moved forward.</span>
   <span id="f000358">Very softly and gently,</span>
   <span id="f000359">as though fearful of making a ripple in that boundless pool of quiet she put her arms round her friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">“My dear,” murmured her happy friend,</span>
   <span id="f000361">quite overcome by this gratitude.</span>
   <span id="f000362">“They are really nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000363">Just the simplest little thrippenny bunch.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000364">But as she spoke she was enfolded–more tenderly,</span>
   <span id="f000365">more beautifully embraced,</span>
   <span id="f000366">held by such a sweet pressure and for so long that the poor dear’s mind positively reeled and she just had the strength to quaver:</span>
   <span id="f000367">“Then you really don’t mind me too much?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“Good night,</span>
   <span id="f000369">my friend,” whispered the other.</span>
   <span id="f000370">“Come again soon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000372">I will.</span>
   <span id="f000373">I will.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">This time she walked back to the studio slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and standing in the middle of the room with half-shut eyes she felt so light,</span>
   <span id="f000376">so rested,</span>
   <span id="f000377">as if she had woken up out of a childish sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000378">Even the act of breathing was a joy…</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">The <em>sommier</em> was very untidy.</span>
   <span id="f000380">All the cushions “like furious mountains” as she said;</span>
   <span id="f000381">she put them in order before going over to the writing-table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">“I have been thinking over our talk about the psychological novel,” she dashed off,</span>
   <span id="f000383">“it really is intensely interesting.” …</span>
   <span id="f000384">And so on and so on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">At the end she wrote:</span>
   <span id="f000386">“Good night,</span>
   <span id="f000387">my friend.</span>
   <span id="f000388">Come again soon.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

