<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Masque of the Red Death</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edgar Allan Poe</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">The “Red Death” had long devastated the country.</span>
   <span id="f000008">No pestilence had ever been so fatal,</span>
   <span id="f000009">or so hideous.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Blood was its Avatar and its seal – the redness and the horror of blood.</span>
   <span id="f000011">There were sharp pains,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and sudden dizziness,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and then profuse bleeding at the pores,</span>
   <span id="f000014">with dissolution.</span>
   <span id="f000015">The scarlet stains upon the body and especially upon the face of the victim,</span>
   <span id="f000016">were the pest ban which shut him out from the aid and from the sympathy of his fellow-men.</span>
   <span id="f000017">And the whole seizure,</span>
   <span id="f000018">progress and termination of the disease,</span>
   <span id="f000019">were the incidents of half an hour.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">But the Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious.</span>
   <span id="f000021">When his dominions were half depopulated,</span>
   <span id="f000022">he summoned to his presence a thousand hale and light-hearted friends from among the knights and dames of his court,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and with these retired to the deep seclusion of one of his castellated abbeys.</span>
   <span id="f000024">This was an extensive and magnificent structure,</span>
   <span id="f000025">the creation of the prince’s own eccentric yet august taste.</span>
   <span id="f000026">A strong and lofty wall girdled it in.</span>
   <span id="f000027">This wall had gates of iron.</span>
   <span id="f000028">The courtiers,</span>
   <span id="f000029">having entered,</span>
   <span id="f000030">brought furnaces and massy hammers and welded the bolts.</span>
   <span id="f000031">They resolved to leave means neither of ingress or egress to the sudden impulses of despair or of frenzy from within.</span>
   <span id="f000032">The abbey was amply provisioned.</span>
   <span id="f000033">With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion.</span>
   <span id="f000034">The external world could take care of itself.</span>
   <span id="f000035">In the meantime it was folly to grieve,</span>
   <span id="f000036">or to think.</span>
   <span id="f000037">The prince had provided all the appliances of pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000038">There were buffoons,</span>
   <span id="f000039">there were improvisatori,</span>
   <span id="f000040">there were ballet-dancers,</span>
   <span id="f000041">there were musicians,</span>
   <span id="f000042">there was Beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000043">there was wine.</span>
   <span id="f000044">All these and security were within.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Without was the “Red Death.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">It was toward the close of the fifth or sixth month of his seclusion,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and while the pestilence raged most furiously abroad,</span>
   <span id="f000048">that the Prince Prospero entertained his thousand friends at a masked ball of the most unusual magnificence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">It was a voluptuous scene,</span>
   <span id="f000050">that masquerade.</span>
   <span id="f000051">But first let me tell of the rooms in which it was held.</span>
   <span id="f000052">There were seven – an imperial suite.</span>
   <span id="f000053">In many palaces,</span>
   <span id="f000054">however,</span>
   <span id="f000055">such suites form a long and straight vista,</span>
   <span id="f000056">while the folding doors slide back nearly to the walls on either hand,</span>
   <span id="f000057">so that the view of the whole extent is scarcely impeded.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Here the case was very different;</span>
   <span id="f000059">as might have been expected from the duke’s love of the bizarre.</span>
   <span id="f000060">The apartments were so irregularly disposed that the vision embraced but little more than one at a time.</span>
   <span id="f000061">There was a sharp turn at every twenty or thirty yards,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and at each turn a novel effect.</span>
   <span id="f000063">To the right and left,</span>
   <span id="f000064">in the middle of each wall,</span>
   <span id="f000065">a tall and narrow Gothic window looked out upon a closed corridor which pursued the windings of the suite.</span>
   <span id="f000066">These windows were of stained glass whose color varied in accordance with the prevailing hue of the decorations of the chamber into which it opened.</span>
   <span id="f000067">That at the eastern extremity was hung,</span>
   <span id="f000068">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000069">in blue – and vividly blue were its windows.</span>
   <span id="f000070">The second chamber was purple in its ornaments and tapestries,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and here the panes were purple.</span>
   <span id="f000072">The third was green throughout,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and so were the casements.</span>
   <span id="f000074">The fourth was furnished and lighted with orange – the fifth with white – the sixth with violet.</span>
   <span id="f000075">The seventh apartment was closely shrouded in black velvet tapestries that hung all over the ceiling and down the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000076">falling in heavy folds upon a carpet of the same material and hue.</span>
   <span id="f000077">But in this chamber only,</span>
   <span id="f000078">the color of the windows failed to correspond with the decorations.</span>
   <span id="f000079">The panes here were scarlet – a deep blood color.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Now in no one of the seven apartments was there any lamp or candelabrum,</span>
   <span id="f000081">amid the profusion of golden ornaments that lay scattered to and fro or depended from the roof.</span>
   <span id="f000082">There was no light of any kind emanating from lamp or candle within the suite of chambers.</span>
   <span id="f000083">But in the corridors that followed the suite,</span>
   <span id="f000084">there stood,</span>
   <span id="f000085">opposite to each window,</span>
   <span id="f000086">a heavy tripod,</span>
   <span id="f000087">bearing a brazier of fire that projected its rays through the tinted glass and so glaringly illumined the room.</span>
   <span id="f000088">And thus were produced a multitude of gaudy and fantastic appearances.</span>
   <span id="f000089">But in the western or black chamber the effect of the fire-light that streamed upon the dark hangings through the blood-tinted panes,</span>
   <span id="f000090">was ghastly in the extreme,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and produced so wild a look upon the countenances of those who entered,</span>
   <span id="f000092">that there were few of the company bold enough to set foot within its precincts at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">It was in this apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000094">also,</span>
   <span id="f000095">that there stood against the western wall,</span>
   <span id="f000096">a gigantic clock of ebony.</span>
   <span id="f000097">Its pendulum swung to and fro with a dull,</span>
   <span id="f000098">heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000099">monotonous clang;</span>
   <span id="f000100">and when the minute-hand made the circuit of the face,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and the hour was to be stricken,</span>
   <span id="f000102">there came from the brazen lungs of the clock a sound which was clear and loud and deep and exceedingly musical,</span>
   <span id="f000103">but of so peculiar a note and emphasis that,</span>
   <span id="f000104">at each lapse of an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000105">the musicians of the orchestra were constrained to pause,</span>
   <span id="f000106">momentarily,</span>
   <span id="f000107">in their performance,</span>
   <span id="f000108">to hearken to the sound;</span>
   <span id="f000109">and thus the waltzers perforce ceased their evolutions;</span>
   <span id="f000110">and there was a brief disconcert of the whole gay company;</span>
   <span id="f000111">and,</span>
   <span id="f000112">while the chimes of the clock yet rang,</span>
   <span id="f000113">it was observed that the giddiest grew pale,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and the more aged and sedate passed their hands over their brows as if in confused reverie or meditation.</span>
   <span id="f000115">But when the echoes had fully ceased,</span>
   <span id="f000116">a light laughter at once pervaded the assembly;</span>
   <span id="f000117">the musicians looked at each other and smiled as if at their own nervousness and folly,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and made whispering vows,</span>
   <span id="f000119">each to the other,</span>
   <span id="f000120">that the next chiming of the clock should produce in them no similar emotion;</span>
   <span id="f000121">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000122">after the lapse of sixty minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000123">(which embrace three thousand and six hundred seconds of the Time that flies,)</span>
   <span id="f000124">there came yet another chiming of the clock,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and then were the same disconcert and tremulousness and meditation as before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">But,</span>
   <span id="f000127">in spite of these things,</span>
   <span id="f000128">it was a gay and magnificent revel.</span>
   <span id="f000129">The tastes of the duke were peculiar.</span>
   <span id="f000130">He had a fine eye for colors and effects.</span>
   <span id="f000131">He disregarded the decora of mere fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000132">His plans were bold and fiery,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and his conceptions glowed with barbaric lustre.</span>
   <span id="f000134">There are some who would have thought him mad.</span>
   <span id="f000135">His followers felt that he was not.</span>
   <span id="f000136">It was necessary to hear and see and touch him to be sure that he was not.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">He had directed,</span>
   <span id="f000138">in great part,</span>
   <span id="f000139">the moveable embellishments of the seven chambers,</span>
   <span id="f000140">upon occasion of this great fete;</span>
   <span id="f000141">and it was his own guiding taste which had given character to the masqueraders.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Be sure they were grotesque.</span>
   <span id="f000143">There were much glare and glitter and piquancy and phantasm – much of what has been since seen in “Hernani.” There were arabesque figures with unsuited limbs and appointments.</span>
   <span id="f000144">There were delirious fancies such as the madman fashions.</span>
   <span id="f000145">There was much of the beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000146">much of the wanton,</span>
   <span id="f000147">much of the bizarre,</span>
   <span id="f000148">something of the terrible,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and not a little of that which might have excited disgust.</span>
   <span id="f000150">To and fro in the seven chambers there stalked,</span>
   <span id="f000151">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000152">a multitude of dreams.</span>
   <span id="f000153">And these – the dreams – writhed in and about,</span>
   <span id="f000154">taking hue from the rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and causing the wild music of the orchestra to seem as the echo of their steps.</span>
   <span id="f000156">And,</span>
   <span id="f000157">anon,</span>
   <span id="f000158">there strikes the ebony clock which stands in the hall of the velvet.</span>
   <span id="f000159">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000160">for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000161">all is still,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and all is silent save the voice of the clock.</span>
   <span id="f000163">The dreams are stiff-frozen as they stand.</span>
   <span id="f000164">But the echoes of the chime die away – they have endured but an instant – and a light,</span>
   <span id="f000165">half-subdued laughter floats after them as they depart.</span>
   <span id="f000166">And now again the music swells,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and the dreams live,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and writhe to and fro more merrily than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000169">taking hue from the many-tinted windows through which stream the rays from the tripods.</span>
   <span id="f000170">But to the chamber which lies most westwardly of the seven,</span>
   <span id="f000171">there are now none of the maskers who venture;</span>
   <span id="f000172">for the night is waning away;</span>
   <span id="f000173">and there flows a ruddier light through the blood-colored panes;</span>
   <span id="f000174">and the blackness of the sable drapery appals;</span>
   <span id="f000175">and to him whose foot falls upon the sable carpet,</span>
   <span id="f000176">there comes from the near clock of ebony a muffled peal more solemnly emphatic than any which reaches their ears who indulge in the more remote gaieties of the other apartments.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">But these other apartments were densely crowded,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and in them beat feverishly the heart of life.</span>
   <span id="f000179">And the revel went whirlingly on,</span>
   <span id="f000180">until at length there commenced the sounding of midnight upon the clock.</span>
   <span id="f000181">And then the music ceased,</span>
   <span id="f000182">as I have told;</span>
   <span id="f000183">and the evolutions of the waltzers were quieted;</span>
   <span id="f000184">and there was an uneasy cessation of all things as before.</span>
   <span id="f000185">But now there were twelve strokes to be sounded by the bell of the clock;</span>
   <span id="f000186">and thus it happened,</span>
   <span id="f000187">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000188">that more of thought crept,</span>
   <span id="f000189">with more of time,</span>
   <span id="f000190">into the meditations of the thoughtful among those who revelled.</span>
   <span id="f000191">And thus,</span>
   <span id="f000192">too,</span>
   <span id="f000193">it happened,</span>
   <span id="f000194">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000195">that before the last echoes of the last chime had utterly sunk into silence,</span>
   <span id="f000196">there were many individuals in the crowd who had found leisure to become aware of the presence of a masked figure which had arrested the attention of no single individual before.</span>
   <span id="f000197">And the rumor of this new presence having spread itself whisperingly around,</span>
   <span id="f000198">there arose at length from the whole company a buzz,</span>
   <span id="f000199">or murmur,</span>
   <span id="f000200">expressive of disapprobation and surprise – then,</span>
   <span id="f000201">finally,</span>
   <span id="f000202">of terror,</span>
   <span id="f000203">of horror,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and of disgust.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">In an assembly of phantasms such as I have painted,</span>
   <span id="f000206">it may well be supposed that no ordinary appearance could have excited such sensation.</span>
   <span id="f000207">In truth the masquerade license of the night was nearly unlimited;</span>
   <span id="f000208">but the figure in question had out-Heroded Herod,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and gone beyond the bounds of even the prince’s indefinite decorum.</span>
   <span id="f000210">There are chords in the hearts of the most reckless which cannot be touched without emotion.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Even with the utterly lost,</span>
   <span id="f000212">to whom life and death are equally jests,</span>
   <span id="f000213">there are matters of which no jest can be made.</span>
   <span id="f000214">The whole company,</span>
   <span id="f000215">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000216">seemed now deeply to feel that in the costume and bearing of the stranger neither wit nor propriety existed.</span>
   <span id="f000217">The figure was tall and gaunt,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and shrouded from head to foot in the habiliments of the grave.</span>
   <span id="f000219">The mask which concealed the visage was made so nearly to resemble the countenance of a stiffened corpse that the closest scrutiny must have had difficulty in detecting the cheat.</span>
   <span id="f000220">And yet all this might have been endured,</span>
   <span id="f000221">if not approved,</span>
   <span id="f000222">by the mad revellers around.</span>
   <span id="f000223">But the mummer had gone so far as to assume the type of the Red Death.</span>
   <span id="f000224">His vesture was dabbled in blood – and his broad brow,</span>
   <span id="f000225">with all the features of the face,</span>
   <span id="f000226">was besprinkled with the scarlet horror.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">When the eyes of Prince Prospero fell upon this spectral image</span>
   <span id="f000228">(which with a slow and solemn movement,</span>
   <span id="f000229">as if more fully to sustain its role,</span>
   <span id="f000230">stalked to and fro among the waltzers)</span>
   <span id="f000231">he was seen to be convulsed,</span>
   <span id="f000232">in the first moment with a strong shudder either of terror or distaste;</span>
   <span id="f000233">but,</span>
   <span id="f000234">in the next,</span>
   <span id="f000235">his brow reddened with rage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“Who dares?” he demanded hoarsely of the courtiers who stood near him – “who dares insult us with this blasphemous mockery?</span>
   <span id="f000237">Seize him and unmask him – that we may know whom we have to hang at sunrise,</span>
   <span id="f000238">from the battlements!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">It was in the eastern or blue chamber in which stood the Prince Prospero as he uttered these words.</span>
   <span id="f000240">They rang throughout the seven rooms loudly and clearly – for the prince was a bold and robust man,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and the music had become hushed at the waving of his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">It was in the blue room where stood the prince,</span>
   <span id="f000243">with a group of pale courtiers by his side.</span>
   <span id="f000244">At first,</span>
   <span id="f000245">as he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000246">there was a slight rushing movement of this group in the direction of the intruder,</span>
   <span id="f000247">who at the moment was also near at hand,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and now,</span>
   <span id="f000249">with deliberate and stately step,</span>
   <span id="f000250">made closer approach to the speaker.</span>
   <span id="f000251">But from a certain nameless awe with which the mad assumptions of the mummer had inspired the whole party,</span>
   <span id="f000252">there were found none who put forth hand to seize him;</span>
   <span id="f000253">so that,</span>
   <span id="f000254">unimpeded,</span>
   <span id="f000255">he passed within a yard of the prince’s person;</span>
   <span id="f000256">and,</span>
   <span id="f000257">while the vast assembly,</span>
   <span id="f000258">as if with one impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000259">shrank from the centres of the rooms to the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000260">he made his way uninterruptedly,</span>
   <span id="f000261">but with the same solemn and measured step which had distinguished him from the first,</span>
   <span id="f000262">through the blue chamber to the purple – through the purple to the green – through the green to the orange – through this again to the white – and even thence to the violet,</span>
   <span id="f000263">ere a decided movement had been made to arrest him.</span>
   <span id="f000264">It was then,</span>
   <span id="f000265">however,</span>
   <span id="f000266">that the Prince Prospero,</span>
   <span id="f000267">maddening with rage and the shame of his own momentary cowardice,</span>
   <span id="f000268">rushed hurriedly through the six chambers,</span>
   <span id="f000269">while none followed him on account of a deadly terror that had seized upon all.</span>
   <span id="f000270">He bore aloft a drawn dagger,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and had approached,</span>
   <span id="f000272">in rapid impetuosity,</span>
   <span id="f000273">to within three or four feet of the retreating figure,</span>
   <span id="f000274">when the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000275">having attained the extremity of the velvet apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000276">turned suddenly and confronted his pursuer.</span>
   <span id="f000277">There was a sharp cry – and the dagger dropped gleaming upon the sable carpet,</span>
   <span id="f000278">upon which,</span>
   <span id="f000279">instantly afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000280">fell prostrate in death the Prince Prospero.</span>
   <span id="f000281">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000282">summoning the wild courage of despair,</span>
   <span id="f000283">a throng of the revellers at once threw themselves into the black apartment,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and,</span>
   <span id="f000285">seizing the mummer,</span>
   <span id="f000286">whose tall figure stood erect and motionless within the shadow of the ebony clock,</span>
   <span id="f000287">gasped in unutterable horror at finding the grave-cerements and corpse-like mask which they handled with so violent a rudeness,</span>
   <span id="f000288">untenanted by any tangible form.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">And now was acknowledged the presence of the Red Death.</span>
   <span id="f000290">He had come like a thief in the night.</span>
   <span id="f000291">And one by one dropped the revellers in the blood-bedewed halls of their revel,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and died each in the despairing posture of his fall.</span>
   <span id="f000293">And the life of the ebony clock went out with that of the last of the gay.</span>
   <span id="f000294">And the flames of the tripods expired.</span>
   <span id="f000295">And Darkness and Decay and the Red Death held illimitable dominion over all.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

