<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This LibriVox recording is in the public domain</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000002">Mark Twain’s Journal Writings, Volume 2</span></h1>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000003">Lost in the Snow</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000004">by<br />Mark Twain</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000005">Recording by<br />John Greenman</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000006">We mounted and started.</span>
   <span id="f000007">The snow lay so deep on the ground that there was no sign of a road perceptible,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and the snow-fall was so thick that we could not see more than a hundred yards ahead,</span>
   <span id="f000009">else we could have guided our course by the mountain ranges.</span>
   <span id="f000010">The case looked dubious,</span>
   <span id="f000011">but Ollendorff said his instinct was as sensitive as any compass,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and that he could “strike a bee-line” for Carson city and never diverge from it.</span>
   <span id="f000013">He said that if he were to straggle a single point out of the true line his instinct would assail him like an outraged conscience.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Consequently we dropped into his wake happy and content.</span>
   <span id="f000015">For half an hour we poked along warily enough,</span>
   <span id="f000016">but at the end of that time we came upon a fresh trail,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and Ollendorff shouted proudly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000018">“I knew I was as dead certain as a compass,</span>
   <span id="f000019">boys!</span>
   <span id="f000020">Here we are,</span>
   <span id="f000021">right in somebody’s tracks that will hunt the way for us without any trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Let’s hurry up and join company with the party.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">So we put the horses into as much of a trot as the deep snow would allow,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and before long it was evident that we were gaining on our predecessors,</span>
   <span id="f000025">for the tracks grew more distinct.</span>
   <span id="f000026">We hurried along,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and at the end of an hour the tracks looked still newer and fresher – but what surprised us was,</span>
   <span id="f000028">that the number of travelers in advance of us seemed to steadily increase.</span>
   <span id="f000029">We wondered how so large a party came to be traveling at such a time and in such a solitude.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Somebody suggested that it must be a company of soldiers from the fort,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and so we accepted that solution and jogged along a little faster still,</span>
   <span id="f000032">for they could not be far off now.</span>
   <span id="f000033">But the tracks still multiplied,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and we began to think the platoon of soldiers was miraculously expanding into a regiment – Ballou said they had already increased to five hundred!</span>
   <span id="f000035">Presently he stopped his horse and said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“Boys,</span>
   <span id="f000037">these are our own tracks,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and we’ve actually been circussing round and round in a circle for more than two hours,</span>
   <span id="f000039">out here in this blind desert!</span>
   <span id="f000040">By George this is perfectly hydraulic!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">Then the old man waxed wroth and abusive.</span>
   <span id="f000042">He called Ollendorff all manner of hard names – said he never saw such a lurid fool as he was,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and ended with the peculiarly venomous opinion that he “did not know as much as a logarythm!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">We certainly had been following our own tracks.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Ollendorff and his “mental compass” were in disgrace from that moment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">After all our hard travel,</span>
   <span id="f000047">here we were on the bank of the stream again,</span>
   <span id="f000048">with the inn beyond dimly outlined through the driving snow-fall.</span>
   <span id="f000049">While we were considering what to do,</span>
   <span id="f000050">the young Swede landed from the canoe and took his pedestrian way Carson-wards,</span>
   <span id="f000051">singing his same tiresome song about his “sister and his brother” and “the child in the grave with its mother,” and in a short minute faded and disappeared in the white oblivion.</span>
   <span id="f000052">He was never heard of again.</span>
   <span id="f000053">He no doubt got bewildered and lost,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and Fatigue delivered him over to Sleep and Sleep betrayed him to Death.</span>
   <span id="f000055">Possibly he followed our treacherous tracks till he became exhausted and dropped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">Presently the Overland stage forded the now fast receding stream and started toward Carson on its first trip since the flood came.</span>
   <span id="f000057">We hesitated no longer,</span>
   <span id="f000058">now,</span>
   <span id="f000059">but took up our march in its wake,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and trotted merrily along,</span>
   <span id="f000061">for we had good confidence in the driver’s bump of locality.</span>
   <span id="f000062">But our horses were no match for the fresh stage team.</span>
   <span id="f000063">We were soon left out of sight;</span>
   <span id="f000064">but it was no matter,</span>
   <span id="f000065">for we had the deep ruts the wheels made for a guide.</span>
   <span id="f000066">By this time it was three in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and consequently it was not very long before night came – and not with a lingering twilight,</span>
   <span id="f000068">but with a sudden shutting down like a cellar door,</span>
   <span id="f000069">as is its habit in that country.</span>
   <span id="f000070">The snowfall was still as thick as ever,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and of course we could not see fifteen steps before us;</span>
   <span id="f000072">but all about us the white glare of the snow-bed enabled us to discern the smooth sugar-loaf mounds made by the covered sage-bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and just in front of us the two faint grooves which we knew were the steadily filling and slowly disappearing wheel-tracks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">Now those sage-bushes were all about the same height – three or four feet;</span>
   <span id="f000075">they stood just about seven feet apart,</span>
   <span id="f000076">all over the vast desert;</span>
   <span id="f000077">each of them was a mere snow-mound,</span>
   <span id="f000078">now;</span>
   <span id="f000079">in any direction that you proceeded</span>
   <span id="f000080">(the same as in a well laid out orchard)</span>
   <span id="f000081">you would find yourself moving down a distinctly defined avenue,</span>
   <span id="f000082">with a row of these snow-mounds an either side of it – an avenue the customary width of a road,</span>
   <span id="f000083">nice and level in its breadth,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and rising at the sides in the most natural way,</span>
   <span id="f000085">by reason of the mounds.</span>
   <span id="f000086">But we had not thought of this.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Then imagine the chilly thrill that shot through us when it finally occurred to us,</span>
   <span id="f000088">far in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000089">that since the last faint trace of the wheel-tracks had long ago been buried from sight,</span>
   <span id="f000090">we might now be wandering down a mere sage-brush avenue,</span>
   <span id="f000091">miles away from the road and diverging further and further away from it all the time.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Having a cake of ice slipped down one’s back is placid comfort compared to it.</span>
   <span id="f000093">There was a sudden leap and stir of blood that had been asleep for an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and as sudden a rousing of all the drowsing activities in our minds and bodies.</span>
   <span id="f000095">We were alive and awake at once – and shaking and quaking with consternation,</span>
   <span id="f000096">too.</span>
   <span id="f000097">There was an instant halting and dismounting,</span>
   <span id="f000098">a bending low and an anxious scanning of the road-bed.</span>
   <span id="f000099">Useless,</span>
   <span id="f000100">of course;</span>
   <span id="f000101">for if a faint depression could not be discerned from an altitude of four or five feet above it,</span>
   <span id="f000102">it certainly could not with one’s nose nearly against it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">We seemed to be in a road,</span>
   <span id="f000104">but that was no proof.</span>
   <span id="f000105">We tested this by walking off in various directions – the regular snow-mounds and the regular avenues between them convinced each man that he had found the true road,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and that the others had found only false ones.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Plainly the situation was desperate.</span>
   <span id="f000108">We were cold and stiff and the horses were tired.</span>
   <span id="f000109">We decided to build a sage-brush fire and camp out till morning.</span>
   <span id="f000110">This was wise,</span>
   <span id="f000111">because if we were wandering from the right road and the snow-storm continued another day our case would be the next thing to hopeless if we kept on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">All agreed that a camp fire was what would come nearest to saving us,</span>
   <span id="f000113">now,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and so we set about building it.</span>
   <span id="f000115">We could find no matches,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and so we tried to make shift with the pistols.</span>
   <span id="f000117">Not a man in the party had ever tried to do such a thing before,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but not a man in the party doubted that it could be done,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and without any trouble – because every man in the party had read about it in books many a time and had naturally come to believe it,</span>
   <span id="f000120">with trusting simplicity,</span>
   <span id="f000121">just as he had long ago accepted and believed that other common book-fraud about Indians and lost hunters making a fire by rubbing two dry sticks together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000122">We huddled together on our knees in the deep snow,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and the horses put their noses together and bowed their patient heads over us;</span>
   <span id="f000124">and while the feathery flakes eddied down and turned us into a group of white statuary,</span>
   <span id="f000125">we proceeded with the momentous experiment.</span>
   <span id="f000126">We broke twigs from a sage bush and piled them on a little cleared place in the shelter of our bodies.</span>
   <span id="f000127">In the course of ten or fifteen minutes all was ready,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000129">while conversation ceased and our pulses beat low with anxious suspense,</span>
   <span id="f000130">Ollendorff applied his revolver,</span>
   <span id="f000131">pulled the trigger and blew the pile clear out of the county!</span>
   <span id="f000132">It was the flattest failure that ever was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">This was distressing,</span>
   <span id="f000134">but it paled before a greater horror – the horses were gone!</span>
   <span id="f000135">I had been appointed to hold the bridles,</span>
   <span id="f000136">but in my absorbing anxiety over the pistol experiment I had unconsciously dropped them and the released animals had walked off in the storm.</span>
   <span id="f000137">It was useless to try to follow them,</span>
   <span id="f000138">for their footfalls could make no sound,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and one could pass within two yards of the creatures and never see them.</span>
   <span id="f000140">We gave them up without an effort at recovering them,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and cursed the lying books that said horses would stay by their masters for protection and companionship in a distressful time like ours.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">We were miserable enough,</span>
   <span id="f000143">before;</span>
   <span id="f000144">we felt still more forlorn,</span>
   <span id="f000145">now.</span>
   <span id="f000146">Patiently,</span>
   <span id="f000147">but with blighted hope,</span>
   <span id="f000148">we broke more sticks and piled them,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and once more the Prussian shot them into annihilation.</span>
   <span id="f000150">Plainly,</span>
   <span id="f000151">to light a fire with a pistol was an art requiring practice and experience,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and the middle of a desert at midnight in a snow-storm was not a good place or time for the acquiring of the accomplishment.</span>
   <span id="f000153">We gave it up and tried the other.</span>
   <span id="f000154">Each man took a couple of sticks and fell to chafing them together.</span>
   <span id="f000155">At the end of half an hour we were thoroughly chilled,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and so were the sticks.</span>
   <span id="f000157">We bitterly execrated the Indians,</span>
   <span id="f000158">the hunters and the books that had betrayed us with the silly device,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and wondered dismally what was next to be done.</span>
   <span id="f000160">At this critical moment Mr.&#160;Ballou fished out four matches from the rubbish of an overlooked pocket.</span>
   <span id="f000161">To have found four gold bars would have seemed poor and cheap good luck compared to this.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">One cannot think how good a match looks under such circumstances – or how lovable and precious,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and sacredly beautiful to the eye.</span>
   <span id="f000164">This time we gathered sticks with high hopes;</span>
   <span id="f000165">and when Mr.&#160;Ballou prepared to light the first match,</span>
   <span id="f000166">there was an amount of interest centred upon him that pages of writing could not describe.</span>
   <span id="f000167">The match burned hopefully a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and then went out.</span>
   <span id="f000169">It could not have carried more regret with it if it had been a human life.</span>
   <span id="f000170">The next match simply flashed and died.</span>
   <span id="f000171">The wind puffed the third one out just as it was on the imminent verge of success.</span>
   <span id="f000172">We gathered together closer than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and developed a solicitude that was rapt and painful,</span>
   <span id="f000174">as Mr.&#160;Ballou scratched our last hope on his leg.</span>
   <span id="f000175">It lit,</span>
   <span id="f000176">burned blue and sickly,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and then budded into a robust flame.</span>
   <span id="f000178">Shading it with his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000179">the old gentleman bent gradually down and every heart went with him – everybody,</span>
   <span id="f000180">too,</span>
   <span id="f000181">for that matter – and blood and breath stood still.</span>
   <span id="f000182">The flame touched the sticks at last,</span>
   <span id="f000183">took gradual hold upon them – hesitated – took a stronger hold – hesitated again – held its breath five heart-breaking seconds,</span>
   <span id="f000184">then gave a sort of human gasp and went out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">Nobody said a word for several minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000186">It was a solemn sort of silence;</span>
   <span id="f000187">even the wind put on a stealthy,</span>
   <span id="f000188">sinister quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and made no more noise than the falling flakes of snow.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Finally a sad-voiced conversation began,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and it was soon apparent that in each of our hearts lay the conviction that this was our last night with the living.</span>
   <span id="f000192">I had so hoped that I was the only one who felt so.</span>
   <span id="f000193">When the others calmly acknowledged their conviction,</span>
   <span id="f000194">it sounded like the summons itself.</span>
   <span id="f000195">Ollendorff said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“Brothers,</span>
   <span id="f000197">let us die together.</span>
   <span id="f000198">And let us go without one hard feeling towards each other.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Let us forget and forgive bygones.</span>
   <span id="f000200">I know that you have felt hard towards me for turning over the canoe,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and for knowing too much and leading you round and round in the snow – but I meant well;</span>
   <span id="f000202">forgive me.</span>
   <span id="f000203">I acknowledge freely that I have had hard feelings against Mr.&#160;Ballou for abusing me and calling me a logarythm,</span>
   <span id="f000204">which is a thing I do not know what,</span>
   <span id="f000205">but no doubt a thing considered disgraceful and unbecoming in America,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and it has scarcely been out of my mind and has hurt me a great deal – but let it go;</span>
   <span id="f000207">I forgive Mr.&#160;Ballou with all my heart,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">Poor Ollendorff broke down and the tears came.</span>
   <span id="f000210">He was not alone,</span>
   <span id="f000211">for I was crying too,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and so was Mr.&#160;Ballou.</span>
   <span id="f000213">Ollendorff got his voice again and forgave me for things I had done and said.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Then he got out his bottle of whisky and said that whether he lived or died he would never touch another drop.</span>
   <span id="f000215">He said he had given up all hope of life,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and although ill-prepared,</span>
   <span id="f000217">was ready to submit humbly to his fate;</span>
   <span id="f000218">that he wished he could be spared a little longer,</span>
   <span id="f000219">not for any selfish reason,</span>
   <span id="f000220">but to make a thorough reform in his character,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and by devoting himself to helping the poor,</span>
   <span id="f000222">nursing the sick,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and pleading with the people to guard themselves against the evils of intemperance,</span>
   <span id="f000224">make his life a beneficent example to the young,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and lay it down at last with the precious reflection that it had not been lived in vain.</span>
   <span id="f000226">He ended by saying that his reform should begin at this moment,</span>
   <span id="f000227">even here in the presence of death,</span>
   <span id="f000228">since no longer time was to be vouchsafed wherein to prosecute it to men’s help and benefit – and with that he threw away the bottle of whisky.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">Mr.&#160;Ballou made remarks of similar purport,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and began the reform he could not live to continue,</span>
   <span id="f000231">by throwing away the ancient pack of cards that had solaced our captivity during the flood and made it bearable.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">He said he never gambled,</span>
   <span id="f000233">but still was satisfied that the meddling with cards in any way was immoral and injurious,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and no man could be wholly pure and blemishless without eschewing them.</span>
   <span id="f000235">“And therefore,” continued he,</span>
   <span id="f000236">“in doing this act I already feel more in sympathy with that spiritual saturnalia necessary to entire and obsolete reform.” These rolling syllables touched him as no intelligible eloquence could have done,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and the old man sobbed with a mournfulness not unmingled with satisfaction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">My own remarks were of the same tenor as those of my comrades,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and I know that the feelings that prompted them were heartfelt and sincere.</span>
   <span id="f000240">We were all sincere,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and all deeply moved and earnest,</span>
   <span id="f000242">for we were in the presence of death and without hope.</span>
   <span id="f000243">I threw away my pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and in doing it felt that at last I was free of a hated vice and one that had ridden me like a tyrant all my days.</span>
   <span id="f000245">While I yet talked,</span>
   <span id="f000246">the thought of the good I might have done in the world and the still greater good I might now do,</span>
   <span id="f000247">with these new incentives and higher and better aims to guide me if I could only be spared a few years longer,</span>
   <span id="f000248">overcame me and the tears came again.</span>
   <span id="f000249">We put our arms about each other’s necks and awaited the warning drowsiness that precedes death by freezing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">It came stealing over us presently,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and then we bade each other a last farewell.</span>
   <span id="f000252">A delicious dreaminess wrought its web about my yielding senses,</span>
   <span id="f000253">while the snow-flakes wove a winding sheet about my conquered body.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Oblivion came.</span>
   <span id="f000255">The battle of life was done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">I do not know how long I was in a state of forgetfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000257">but it seemed an age.</span>
   <span id="f000258">A vague consciousness grew upon me by degrees,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and then came a gathering anguish of pain in my limbs and through all my body.</span>
   <span id="f000260">I shuddered.</span>
   <span id="f000261">The thought flitted through my brain,</span>
   <span id="f000262">“this is death – this is the hereafter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">Then came a white upheaval at my side,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and a voice said,</span>
   <span id="f000265">with bitterness:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“Will some gentleman be so good as to kick me behind?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">It was Ballou – at least it was a towzled snow image in a sitting posture,</span>
   <span id="f000268">with Ballou’s voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">I rose up,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and there in the gray dawn,</span>
   <span id="f000271">not fifteen steps from us,</span>
   <span id="f000272">were the frame buildings of a stage station,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and under a shed stood our still saddled and bridled horses!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">An arched snow-drift broke up,</span>
   <span id="f000275">now,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and Ollendorff emerged from it,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and the three of us sat and stared at the houses without speaking a word.</span>
   <span id="f000278">We really had nothing to say.</span>
   <span id="f000279">We were like the profane man who could not “do the subject justice,” the whole situation was so painfully ridiculous and humiliating that words were tame and we did not know where to commence anyhow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">The joy in our hearts at our deliverance was poisoned;</span>
   <span id="f000281">well-nigh dissipated,</span>
   <span id="f000282">indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000283">We presently began to grow pettish by degrees,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and sullen;</span>
   <span id="f000285">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000286">angry at each other,</span>
   <span id="f000287">angry at ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000288">angry at everything in general,</span>
   <span id="f000289">we moodily dusted the snow from our clothing and in unsociable single file plowed our way to the horses,</span>
   <span id="f000290">unsaddled them,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and sought shelter in the station.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">I have scarcely exaggerated a detail of this curious and absurd adventure.</span>
   <span id="f000293">It occurred almost exactly as I have stated it.</span>
   <span id="f000294">We actually went into camp in a snow-drift in a desert,</span>
   <span id="f000295">at midnight in a storm,</span>
   <span id="f000296">forlorn and hopeless,</span>
   <span id="f000297">within fifteen steps of a comfortable inn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">For two hours we sat apart in the station and ruminated in disgust.</span>
   <span id="f000299">The mystery was gone,</span>
   <span id="f000300">now,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and it was plain enough why the horses had deserted us.</span>
   <span id="f000302">Without a doubt they were under that shed a quarter of a minute after they had left us,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and they must have overheard and enjoyed all our confessions and lamentations.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">After breakfast we felt better,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and the zest of life soon came back.</span>
   <span id="f000306">The world looked bright again,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and existence was as dear to us as ever.</span>
   <span id="f000308">Presently an uneasiness came over me – grew upon me – assailed me without ceasing.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Alas,</span>
   <span id="f000310">my regeneration was not complete – I wanted to smoke!</span>
   <span id="f000311">I resisted with all my strength,</span>
   <span id="f000312">but the flesh was weak.</span>
   <span id="f000313">I wandered away alone and wrestled with myself an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000314">I recalled my promises of reform and preached to myself persuasively,</span>
   <span id="f000315">upbraidingly,</span>
   <span id="f000316">exhaustively.</span>
   <span id="f000317">But it was all vain,</span>
   <span id="f000318">I shortly found myself sneaking among the snow-drifts hunting for my pipe.</span>
   <span id="f000319">I discovered it after a considerable search,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and crept away to hide myself and enjoy it.</span>
   <span id="f000321">I remained behind the barn a good while,</span>
   <span id="f000322">asking myself how I would feel if my braver,</span>
   <span id="f000323">stronger,</span>
   <span id="f000324">truer comrades should catch me in my degradation.</span>
   <span id="f000325">At last I lit the pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and no human being can feel meaner and baser than I did then.</span>
   <span id="f000327">I was ashamed of being in my own pitiful company.</span>
   <span id="f000328">Still dreading discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000329">I felt that perhaps the further side of the barn would be somewhat safer,</span>
   <span id="f000330">and so I turned the corner.</span>
   <span id="f000331">As I turned the one corner,</span>
   <span id="f000332">smoking,</span>
   <span id="f000333">Ollendorff turned the other with his bottle to his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and between us sat unconscious Ballou deep in a game of “solitaire” with the old greasy cards!</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

