<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure XI<br />The Adventure of the Beryl Coronet</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">“Holmes,” said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking down the street,</span>
   <span id="f000009">“here is a madman coming along.</span>
   <span id="f000010">It seems rather sad that his relatives should allow him to come out alone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000012">looking over my shoulder.</span>
   <span id="f000013">It was a bright,</span>
   <span id="f000014">crisp February morning,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000016">shimmering brightly in the wintry sun.</span>
   <span id="f000017">Down the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into a brown crumbly band by the traffic,</span>
   <span id="f000018">but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of the foot-paths it still lay as white as when it fell.</span>
   <span id="f000019">The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped,</span>
   <span id="f000020">but was still dangerously slippery,</span>
   <span id="f000021">so that there were fewer passengers than usual.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000023">from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">He was a man of about fifty,</span>
   <span id="f000025">tall,</span>
   <span id="f000026">portly,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and imposing,</span>
   <span id="f000028">with a massive,</span>
   <span id="f000029">strongly marked face and a commanding figure.</span>
   <span id="f000030">He was dressed in a sombre yet rich style,</span>
   <span id="f000031">in black frock-coat,</span>
   <span id="f000032">shining hat,</span>
   <span id="f000033">neat brown gaiters,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and well-cut pearl-grey trousers.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features,</span>
   <span id="f000036">for he was running hard,</span>
   <span id="f000037">with occasional little springs,</span>
   <span id="f000038">such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs.</span>
   <span id="f000039">As he ran he jerked his hands up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000040">waggled his head,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“What on earth can be the matter with him?” I asked.</span>
   <span id="f000043">“He is looking up at the numbers of the houses.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">“I believe that he is coming here,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000045">rubbing his hands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“Here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000048">I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally.</span>
   <span id="f000049">I think that I recognise the symptoms.</span>
   <span id="f000050">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000051">did I not tell you?” As he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000052">the man,</span>
   <span id="f000053">puffing and blowing,</span>
   <span id="f000054">rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">A few moments later he was in our room,</span>
   <span id="f000056">still puffing,</span>
   <span id="f000057">still gesticulating,</span>
   <span id="f000058">but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity.</span>
   <span id="f000059">For a while he could not get his words out,</span>
   <span id="f000060">but swayed his body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his reason.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000062">suddenly springing to his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000063">he beat his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away to the centre of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000064">Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the easy-chair and,</span>
   <span id="f000065">sitting beside him,</span>
   <span id="f000066">patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy,</span>
   <span id="f000067">soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">“You have come to me to tell your story,</span>
   <span id="f000069">have you not?” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000070">“You are fatigued with your haste.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Pray wait until you have recovered yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and then I shall be most happy to look into any little problem which you may submit to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest,</span>
   <span id="f000074">fighting against his emotion.</span>
   <span id="f000075">Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow,</span>
   <span id="f000076">set his lips tight,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and turned his face towards us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“No doubt you think me mad?” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“I see that you have had some great trouble,” responded Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“God knows I have!</span>
   <span id="f000081">– a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason,</span>
   <span id="f000082">so sudden and so terrible is it.</span>
   <span id="f000083">Public disgrace I might have faced,</span>
   <span id="f000084">although I am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain.</span>
   <span id="f000085">Private affliction also is the lot of every man;</span>
   <span id="f000086">but the two coming together,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and in so frightful a form,</span>
   <span id="f000088">have been enough to shake my very soul.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000090">it is not I alone.</span>
   <span id="f000091">The very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Pray compose yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000093">sir,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000094">“and let me have a clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“My name,” answered our visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000096">“is probably familiar to your ears.</span>
   <span id="f000097">I am Alexander Holder,</span>
   <span id="f000098">of the banking firm of Holder &amp;</span>
   <span id="f000099">Stevenson,</span>
   <span id="f000100">of Threadneedle Street.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the second largest private banking concern in the City of London.</span>
   <span id="f000102">What could have happened,</span>
   <span id="f000103">then,</span>
   <span id="f000104">to bring one of the foremost citizens of London to this most pitiable pass?</span>
   <span id="f000105">We waited,</span>
   <span id="f000106">all curiosity,</span>
   <span id="f000107">until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“I feel that time is of value,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000109">"that is why I hastened here when the police inspector suggested that I should secure your co-operation.</span>
   <span id="f000110">I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried from there on foot,</span>
   <span id="f000111">for the cabs go slowly through this snow.</span>
   <span id="f000112">That is why I was so out of breath,</span>
   <span id="f000113">for I am a man who takes very little exercise.</span>
   <span id="f000114">I feel better now,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and I will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">It is,</span>
   <span id="f000117">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000118">well known to you that in a successful banking business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the number of our depositors.</span>
   <span id="f000119">One of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape of loans,</span>
   <span id="f000120">where the security is unimpeachable.</span>
   <span id="f000121">We have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon the security of their pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000123">libraries,</span>
   <span id="f000124">or plate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a card was brought in to me by one of the clerks.</span>
   <span id="f000126">I started when I saw the name,</span>
   <span id="f000127">for it was that of none other than – well,</span>
   <span id="f000128">perhaps even to you I had better say no more than that it was a name which is a household word all over the earth – one of the highest,</span>
   <span id="f000129">noblest,</span>
   <span id="f000130">most exalted names in England.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted,</span>
   <span id="f000132">when he entered,</span>
   <span id="f000133">to say so,</span>
   <span id="f000134">but he plunged at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">’Mr.&#160;Holder,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000136">’I have been informed that you are in the habit of advancing money.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">’The firm does so when the security is good.’ I answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">’It is absolutely essential to me,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000139">’that I should have 50,000 pounds at once.</span>
   <span id="f000140">I could,</span>
   <span id="f000141">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000142">borrow so trifling a sum ten times over from my friends,</span>
   <span id="f000143">but I much prefer to make it a matter of business and to carry out that business myself.</span>
   <span id="f000144">In my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place one’s self under obligations.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">’For how long,</span>
   <span id="f000146">may I ask,</span>
   <span id="f000147">do you want this sum?’ I asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">’Next Monday I have a large sum due to me,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and I shall then most certainly repay what you advance,</span>
   <span id="f000150">with whatever interest you think it right to charge.</span>
   <span id="f000151">But it is very essential to me that the money should be paid at once.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">’I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own private purse,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000153">’were it not that the strain would be rather more than it could bear.</span>
   <span id="f000154">If,</span>
   <span id="f000155">on the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000156">I am to do it in the name of the firm,</span>
   <span id="f000157">then in justice to my partner I must insist that,</span>
   <span id="f000158">even in your case,</span>
   <span id="f000159">every businesslike precaution should be taken.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">’I should much prefer to have it so,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000161">raising up a square,</span>
   <span id="f000162">black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair.</span>
   <span id="f000163">’You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">’One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,’ said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">’Precisely.’ He opened the case,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000167">imbedded in soft,</span>
   <span id="f000168">flesh-coloured velvet,</span>
   <span id="f000169">lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he had named.</span>
   <span id="f000170">’There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000171">’and the price of the gold chasing is incalculable.</span>
   <span id="f000172">The lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which I have asked.</span>
   <span id="f000173">I am prepared to leave it with you as my security.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity from it to my illustrious client.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">’You doubt its value?’ he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">’Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000177">I only doubt – ’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">’The propriety of my leaving it.</span>
   <span id="f000179">You may set your mind at rest about that.</span>
   <span id="f000180">I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain that I should be able in four days to reclaim it.</span>
   <span id="f000181">It is a pure matter of form.</span>
   <span id="f000182">Is the security sufficient?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">’Ample.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">’You understand,</span>
   <span id="f000185">Mr.&#160;Holder,</span>
   <span id="f000186">that I am giving you a strong proof of the confidence which I have in you,</span>
   <span id="f000187">founded upon all that I have heard of you.</span>
   <span id="f000188">I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all gossip upon the matter but,</span>
   <span id="f000189">above all,</span>
   <span id="f000190">to preserve this coronet with every possible precaution because I need not say that a great public scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Any injury to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss,</span>
   <span id="f000192">for there are no beryls in the world to match these,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and it would be impossible to replace them.</span>
   <span id="f000194">I leave it with you,</span>
   <span id="f000195">however,</span>
   <span id="f000196">with every confidence,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and I shall call for it in person on Monday morning.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">Seeing that my client was anxious to leave,</span>
   <span id="f000199">I said no more but,</span>
   <span id="f000200">calling for my cashier,</span>
   <span id="f000201">I ordered him to pay over fifty 1000 pound notes.</span>
   <span id="f000202">When I was alone once more,</span>
   <span id="f000203">however,</span>
   <span id="f000204">with the precious case lying upon the table in front of me,</span>
   <span id="f000205">I could not but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000206">There could be no doubt that,</span>
   <span id="f000207">as it was a national possession,</span>
   <span id="f000208">a horrible scandal would ensue if any misfortune should occur to it.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it.</span>
   <span id="f000210">However,</span>
   <span id="f000211">it was too late to alter the matter now,</span>
   <span id="f000212">so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so precious a thing in the office behind me.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Bankers’ safes had been forced before now,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and why should not mine be?</span>
   <span id="f000216">If so,</span>
   <span id="f000217">how terrible would be the position in which I should find myself!</span>
   <span id="f000218">I determined,</span>
   <span id="f000219">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000220">that for the next few days I would always carry the case backward and forward with me,</span>
   <span id="f000221">so that it might never be really out of my reach.</span>
   <span id="f000222">With this intention,</span>
   <span id="f000223">I called a cab and drove out to my house at Streatham,</span>
   <span id="f000224">carrying the jewel with me.</span>
   <span id="f000225">I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my dressing-room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">And now a word as to my household,</span>
   <span id="f000227">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000228">for I wish you to thoroughly understand the situation.</span>
   <span id="f000229">My groom and my page sleep out of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and may be set aside altogether.</span>
   <span id="f000231">I have three maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Another,</span>
   <span id="f000233">Lucy Parr,</span>
   <span id="f000234">the second waiting-maid,</span>
   <span id="f000235">has only been in my service a few months.</span>
   <span id="f000236">She came with an excellent character,</span>
   <span id="f000237">however,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and has always given me satisfaction.</span>
   <span id="f000239">She is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place.</span>
   <span id="f000240">That is the only drawback which we have found to her,</span>
   <span id="f000241">but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">So much for the servants.</span>
   <span id="f000243">My family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it.</span>
   <span id="f000244">I am a widower and have an only son,</span>
   <span id="f000245">Arthur.</span>
   <span id="f000246">He has been a disappointment to me,</span>
   <span id="f000247">Mr.&#160;Holmes – a grievous disappointment.</span>
   <span id="f000248">I have no doubt that I am myself to blame.</span>
   <span id="f000249">People tell me that I have spoiled him.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Very likely I have.</span>
   <span id="f000251">When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to love.</span>
   <span id="f000252">I could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face.</span>
   <span id="f000253">I have never denied him a wish.</span>
   <span id="f000254">Perhaps it would have been better for both of us had I been sterner,</span>
   <span id="f000255">but I meant it for the best.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business,</span>
   <span id="f000257">but he was not of a business turn.</span>
   <span id="f000258">He was wild,</span>
   <span id="f000259">wayward,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and,</span>
   <span id="f000261">to speak the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000262">I could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money.</span>
   <span id="f000263">When he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and there,</span>
   <span id="f000265">having charming manners,</span>
   <span id="f000266">he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits.</span>
   <span id="f000267">He learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf,</span>
   <span id="f000268">until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his allowance,</span>
   <span id="f000269">that he might settle his debts of honour.</span>
   <span id="f000270">He tried more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping,</span>
   <span id="f000271">but each time the influence of his friend,</span>
   <span id="f000272">Sir George Burnwell,</span>
   <span id="f000273">was enough to draw him back again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">And,</span>
   <span id="f000275">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000276">I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George Burnwell should gain an influence over him,</span>
   <span id="f000277">for he has frequently brought him to my house,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the fascination of his manner.</span>
   <span id="f000279">He is older than Arthur,</span>
   <span id="f000280">a man of the world to his finger-tips,</span>
   <span id="f000281">one who had been everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000282">seen everything,</span>
   <span id="f000283">a brilliant talker,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and a man of great personal beauty.</span>
   <span id="f000285">Yet when I think of him in cold blood,</span>
   <span id="f000286">far away from the glamour of his presence,</span>
   <span id="f000287">I am convinced from his cynical speech and the look which I have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted.</span>
   <span id="f000288">So I think,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000290">too,</span>
   <span id="f000291">thinks my little Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000292">who has a woman’s quick insight into character.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">And now there is only she to be described.</span>
   <span id="f000294">She is my niece;</span>
   <span id="f000295">but when my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I adopted her,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter.</span>
   <span id="f000297">She is a sunbeam in my house – sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000298">loving,</span>
   <span id="f000299">beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000300">a wonderful manager and housekeeper,</span>
   <span id="f000301">yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be.</span>
   <span id="f000302">She is my right hand.</span>
   <span id="f000303">I do not know what I could do without her.</span>
   <span id="f000304">In only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Twice my boy has asked her to marry him,</span>
   <span id="f000306">for he loves her devotedly,</span>
   <span id="f000307">but each time she has refused him.</span>
   <span id="f000308">I think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been she,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and that his marriage might have changed his whole life;</span>
   <span id="f000310">but now,</span>
   <span id="f000311">alas!</span>
   <span id="f000312">it is too late – forever too late!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000313">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000314">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000315">you know the people who live under my roof,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and I shall continue with my miserable story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000317">When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000318">I told Arthur and Mary my experience,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and of the precious treasure which we had under our roof,</span>
   <span id="f000320">suppressing only the name of my client.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Lucy Parr,</span>
   <span id="f000322">who had brought in the coffee,</span>
   <span id="f000323">had,</span>
   <span id="f000324">I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f000325">left the room;</span>
   <span id="f000326">but I cannot swear that the door was closed.</span>
   <span id="f000327">Mary and Arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet,</span>
   <span id="f000328">but I thought it better not to disturb it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">’Where have you put it?’ asked Arthur.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">’In my own bureau.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000332">I hope to goodness the house won’t be burgled during the night.’ said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000333">’It is locked up,’ I answered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000335">any old key will fit that bureau.</span>
   <span id="f000336">When I was a youngster I have opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">He often had a wild way of talking,</span>
   <span id="f000338">so that I thought little of what he said.</span>
   <span id="f000339">He followed me to my room,</span>
   <span id="f000340">however,</span>
   <span id="f000341">that night with a very grave face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000342">’Look here,</span>
   <span id="f000343">dad,’ said he with his eyes cast down,</span>
   <span id="f000344">’can you let me have 200 pounds?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000346">I cannot!’ I answered sharply.</span>
   <span id="f000347">’I have been far too generous with you in money matters.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">’You have been very kind,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000349">’but I must have this money,</span>
   <span id="f000350">or else I can never show my face inside the club again.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">’And a very good thing,</span>
   <span id="f000352">too!’ I cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000354">but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,’ said he.</span>
   <span id="f000355">’I could not bear the disgrace.</span>
   <span id="f000356">I must raise the money in some way,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and if you will not let me have it,</span>
   <span id="f000358">then I must try other means.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">I was very angry,</span>
   <span id="f000360">for this was the third demand during the month.</span>
   <span id="f000361">’You shall not have a farthing from me,’ I cried,</span>
   <span id="f000362">on which he bowed and left the room without another word.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">When he was gone I unlocked my bureau,</span>
   <span id="f000364">made sure that my treasure was safe,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and locked it again.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Then I started to go round the house to see that all was secure – a duty which I usually leave to Mary but which I thought it well to perform myself that night.</span>
   <span id="f000367">As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000368">which she closed and fastened as I approached.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">’Tell me,</span>
   <span id="f000370">dad,’ said she,</span>
   <span id="f000371">looking,</span>
   <span id="f000372">I thought,</span>
   <span id="f000373">a little disturbed,</span>
   <span id="f000374">’did you give Lucy,</span>
   <span id="f000375">the maid,</span>
   <span id="f000376">leave to go out to-night?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">’Certainly not.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">’She came in just now by the back door.</span>
   <span id="f000379">I have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see someone,</span>
   <span id="f000380">but I think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">’You must speak to her in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000382">or I will if you prefer it.</span>
   <span id="f000383">Are you sure that everything is fastened?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">’Quite sure,</span>
   <span id="f000385">dad.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">’Then,</span>
   <span id="f000387">good-night.’ I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again,</span>
   <span id="f000388">where I was soon asleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">“I am endeavouring to tell you everything,</span>
   <span id="f000390">Mr.&#160;Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000391">which may have any bearing upon the case,</span>
   <span id="f000392">but I beg that you will question me upon any point which I do not make clear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">“On the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000394">your statement is singularly lucid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000395">I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be particularly so.</span>
   <span id="f000396">I am not a very heavy sleeper,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and the anxiety in my mind tended,</span>
   <span id="f000398">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000399">to make me even less so than usual.</span>
   <span id="f000400">About two in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000401">then,</span>
   <span id="f000402">I was awakened by some sound in the house.</span>
   <span id="f000403">It had ceased ere I was wide awake,</span>
   <span id="f000404">but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere.</span>
   <span id="f000405">I lay listening with all my ears.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000407">to my horror,</span>
   <span id="f000408">there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room.</span>
   <span id="f000409">I slipped out of bed,</span>
   <span id="f000410">all palpitating with fear,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">’Arthur!’ I screamed,</span>
   <span id="f000413">’you villain!</span>
   <span id="f000414">you thief!</span>
   <span id="f000415">How dare you touch that coronet?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">The gas was half up,</span>
   <span id="f000417">as I had left it,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and my unhappy boy,</span>
   <span id="f000419">dressed only in his shirt and trousers,</span>
   <span id="f000420">was standing beside the light,</span>
   <span id="f000421">holding the coronet in his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000422">He appeared to be wrenching at it,</span>
   <span id="f000423">or bending it with all his strength.</span>
   <span id="f000424">At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death.</span>
   <span id="f000425">I snatched it up and examined it.</span>
   <span id="f000426">One of the gold corners,</span>
   <span id="f000427">with three of the beryls in it,</span>
   <span id="f000428">was missing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">’You blackguard!’ I shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000430">beside myself with rage.</span>
   <span id="f000431">’You have destroyed it!</span>
   <span id="f000432">You have dishonoured me forever!</span>
   <span id="f000433">Where are the jewels which you have stolen?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">’Stolen!’ he cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000436">thief!’ I roared,</span>
   <span id="f000437">shaking him by the shoulder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">’There are none missing.</span>
   <span id="f000439">There cannot be any missing,’ said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">’There are three missing.</span>
   <span id="f000441">And you know where they are.</span>
   <span id="f000442">Must I call you a liar as well as a thief?</span>
   <span id="f000443">Did I not see you trying to tear off another piece?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">’You have called me names enough,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000445">’I will not stand it any longer.</span>
   <span id="f000446">I shall not say another word about this business,</span>
   <span id="f000447">since you have chosen to insult me.</span>
   <span id="f000448">I will leave your house in the morning and make my own way in the world.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">’You shall leave it in the hands of the police!’ I cried half-mad with grief and rage.</span>
   <span id="f000450">’I shall have this matter probed to the bottom.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">’You shall learn nothing from me,’ said he with a passion such as I should not have thought was in his nature.</span>
   <span id="f000452">’If you choose to call the police,</span>
   <span id="f000453">let the police find what they can.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000454">By this time the whole house was astir,</span>
   <span id="f000455">for I had raised my voice in my anger.</span>
   <span id="f000456">Mary was the first to rush into my room,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and,</span>
   <span id="f000458">at the sight of the coronet and of Arthur’s face,</span>
   <span id="f000459">she read the whole story and,</span>
   <span id="f000460">with a scream,</span>
   <span id="f000461">fell down senseless on the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000462">I sent the house-maid for the police and put the investigation into their hands at once.</span>
   <span id="f000463">When the inspector and a constable entered the house,</span>
   <span id="f000464">Arthur,</span>
   <span id="f000465">who had stood sullenly with his arms folded,</span>
   <span id="f000466">asked me whether it was my intention to charge him with theft.</span>
   <span id="f000467">I answered that it had ceased to be a private matter,</span>
   <span id="f000468">but had become a public one,</span>
   <span id="f000469">since the ruined coronet was national property.</span>
   <span id="f000470">I was determined that the law should have its way in everything.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">’At least,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000472">’you will not have me arrested at once.</span>
   <span id="f000473">It would be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave the house for five minutes.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">’That you may get away,</span>
   <span id="f000475">or perhaps that you may conceal what you have stolen,’ said I.</span>
   <span id="f000476">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000477">realising the dreadful position in which I was placed,</span>
   <span id="f000478">I implored him to remember that not only my honour but that of one who was far greater than I was at stake;</span>
   <span id="f000479">and that he threatened to raise a scandal which would convulse the nation.</span>
   <span id="f000480">He might avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000481">’You may as well face the matter,’ said I;</span>
   <span id="f000482">’you have been caught in the act,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and no confession could make your guilt more heinous.</span>
   <span id="f000484">If you but make such reparation as is in your power,</span>
   <span id="f000485">by telling us where the beryls are,</span>
   <span id="f000486">all shall be forgiven and forgotten.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“’Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,’ he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000488">turning away from me with a sneer.</span>
   <span id="f000489">I saw that he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him.</span>
   <span id="f000490">There was but one way for it.</span>
   <span id="f000491">I called in the inspector and gave him into custody.</span>
   <span id="f000492">A search was made at once not only of his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where he could possibly have concealed the gems;</span>
   <span id="f000493">but no trace of them could be found,</span>
   <span id="f000494">nor would the wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our threats.</span>
   <span id="f000495">This morning he was removed to a cell,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and I,</span>
   <span id="f000497">after going through all the police formalities,</span>
   <span id="f000498">have hurried round to you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000499">The police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of it.</span>
   <span id="f000500">You may go to any expense which you think necessary.</span>
   <span id="f000501">I have already offered a reward of 1000 pounds.</span>
   <span id="f000502">My God,</span>
   <span id="f000503">what shall I do!</span>
   <span id="f000504">I have lost my honour,</span>
   <span id="f000505">my gems,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and my son in one night.</span>
   <span id="f000507">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000508">what shall I do!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000510">droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000512">with his brows knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">“Do you receive much company?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000514">“None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of Arthur’s.</span>
   <span id="f000515">Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately.</span>
   <span id="f000516">No one else,</span>
   <span id="f000517">I think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">“Do you go out much in society?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">“Arthur does.</span>
   <span id="f000520">Mary and I stay at home.</span>
   <span id="f000521">We neither of us care for it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">“That is unusual in a young girl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">“She is of a quiet nature.</span>
   <span id="f000524">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000525">she is not so very young.</span>
   <span id="f000526">She is four-and-twenty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">“This matter,</span>
   <span id="f000528">from what you say,</span>
   <span id="f000529">seems to have been a shock to her also.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">“Terrible!</span>
   <span id="f000531">She is even more affected than I.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“You have neither of you any doubt as to your son’s guilt?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000534">“I hardly consider that a conclusive proof.</span>
   <span id="f000535">Was the remainder of the coronet at all injured?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000537">it was twisted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000538">“Do you not think,</span>
   <span id="f000539">then,</span>
   <span id="f000540">that he might have been trying to straighten it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">“God bless you!</span>
   <span id="f000542">You are doing what you can for him and for me.</span>
   <span id="f000543">But it is too heavy a task.</span>
   <span id="f000544">What was he doing there at all?</span>
   <span id="f000545">If his purpose were innocent,</span>
   <span id="f000546">why did he not say so?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">“Precisely.</span>
   <span id="f000548">And if it were guilty,</span>
   <span id="f000549">why did he not invent a lie?</span>
   <span id="f000550">His silence appears to me to cut both ways.</span>
   <span id="f000551">There are several singular points about the case.</span>
   <span id="f000552">What did the police think of the noise which awoke you from your sleep?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">“They considered that it might be caused by Arthur’s closing his bedroom door.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">“A likely story!</span>
   <span id="f000555">As if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to wake a household.</span>
   <span id="f000556">What did they say,</span>
   <span id="f000557">then,</span>
   <span id="f000558">of the disappearance of these gems?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000559">“They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the hope of finding them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000560">“Have they thought of looking outside the house?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000562">they have shown extraordinary energy.</span>
   <span id="f000563">The whole garden has already been minutely examined.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000564">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000565">my dear sir,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000566">“is it not obvious to you now that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the police were at first inclined to think?</span>
   <span id="f000567">It appeared to you to be a simple case;</span>
   <span id="f000568">to me it seems exceedingly complex.</span>
   <span id="f000569">Consider what is involved by your theory.</span>
   <span id="f000570">You suppose that your son came down from his bed,</span>
   <span id="f000571">went,</span>
   <span id="f000572">at great risk,</span>
   <span id="f000573">to your dressing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000574">opened your bureau,</span>
   <span id="f000575">took out your coronet,</span>
   <span id="f000576">broke off by main force a small portion of it,</span>
   <span id="f000577">went off to some other place,</span>
   <span id="f000578">concealed three gems out of the thirty-nine,</span>
   <span id="f000579">with such skill that nobody can find them,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and then returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposed himself to the greatest danger of being discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000581">I ask you now,</span>
   <span id="f000582">is such a theory tenable?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“But what other is there?” cried the banker with a gesture of despair.</span>
   <span id="f000584">“If his motives were innocent,</span>
   <span id="f000585">why does he not explain them?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000586">“It is our task to find that out,” replied Holmes;</span>
   <span id="f000587">“so now,</span>
   <span id="f000588">if you please,</span>
   <span id="f000589">Mr.&#160;Holder,</span>
   <span id="f000590">we will set off for Streatham together,</span>
   <span id="f000591">and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into details.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000592">My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition,</span>
   <span id="f000593">which I was eager enough to do,</span>
   <span id="f000594">for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened.</span>
   <span id="f000595">I confess that the guilt of the banker’s son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his unhappy father,</span>
   <span id="f000596">but still I had such faith in Holmes’ judgment that I felt that there must be some grounds for hope as long as he was dissatisfied with the accepted explanation.</span>
   <span id="f000597">He hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb,</span>
   <span id="f000598">but sat with his chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000599">sunk in the deepest thought.</span>
   <span id="f000600">Our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and he even broke into a desultory chat with me over his business affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000602">A short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank,</span>
   <span id="f000603">the modest residence of the great financier.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000604">Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone,</span>
   <span id="f000605">standing back a little from the road.</span>
   <span id="f000606">A double carriage-sweep,</span>
   <span id="f000607">with a snow-clad lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000608">stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the entrance.</span>
   <span id="f000609">On the right side was a small wooden thicket,</span>
   <span id="f000610">which led into a narrow path between two neat hedges stretching from the road to the kitchen door,</span>
   <span id="f000611">and forming the tradesmen’s entrance.</span>
   <span id="f000612">On the left ran a lane which led to the stables,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and was not itself within the grounds at all,</span>
   <span id="f000614">being a public,</span>
   <span id="f000615">though little used,</span>
   <span id="f000616">thoroughfare.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Holmes left us standing at the door and walked slowly all round the house,</span>
   <span id="f000618">across the front,</span>
   <span id="f000619">down the tradesmen’s path,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and so round by the garden behind into the stable lane.</span>
   <span id="f000621">So long was he that Mr.&#160;Holder and I went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return.</span>
   <span id="f000622">We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.</span>
   <span id="f000623">She was rather above the middle height,</span>
   <span id="f000624">slim,</span>
   <span id="f000625">with dark hair and eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000626">which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin.</span>
   <span id="f000627">I do not think that I have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman’s face.</span>
   <span id="f000628">Her lips,</span>
   <span id="f000629">too,</span>
   <span id="f000630">were bloodless,</span>
   <span id="f000631">but her eyes were flushed with crying.</span>
   <span id="f000632">As she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of grief than the banker had done in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000633">and it was the more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong character,</span>
   <span id="f000634">with immense capacity for self-restraint.</span>
   <span id="f000635">Disregarding my presence,</span>
   <span id="f000636">she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000637">“You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated,</span>
   <span id="f000638">have you not,</span>
   <span id="f000639">dad?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000640">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000641">no,</span>
   <span id="f000642">my girl,</span>
   <span id="f000643">the matter must be probed to the bottom.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">“But I am so sure that he is innocent.</span>
   <span id="f000645">You know what woman’s instincts are.</span>
   <span id="f000646">I know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for having acted so harshly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">“Why is he silent,</span>
   <span id="f000648">then,</span>
   <span id="f000649">if he is innocent?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000650">“Who knows?</span>
   <span id="f000651">Perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">“How could I help suspecting him,</span>
   <span id="f000653">when I actually saw him with the coronet in his hand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000655">but he had only picked it up to look at it.</span>
   <span id="f000656">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000657">do,</span>
   <span id="f000658">do take my word for it that he is innocent.</span>
   <span id="f000659">Let the matter drop and say no more.</span>
   <span id="f000660">It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in prison!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000661">“I shall never let it drop until the gems are found – never,</span>
   <span id="f000662">Mary!</span>
   <span id="f000663">Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me.</span>
   <span id="f000664">Far from hushing the thing up,</span>
   <span id="f000665">I have brought a gentleman down from London to inquire more deeply into it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">“This gentleman?” she asked,</span>
   <span id="f000667">facing round to me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000668">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000669">his friend.</span>
   <span id="f000670">He wished us to leave him alone.</span>
   <span id="f000671">He is round in the stable lane now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">“The stable lane?” She raised her dark eyebrows.</span>
   <span id="f000673">“What can he hope to find there?</span>
   <span id="f000674">Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000675">this,</span>
   <span id="f000676">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000677">is he.</span>
   <span id="f000678">I trust,</span>
   <span id="f000679">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000680">that you will succeed in proving,</span>
   <span id="f000681">what I feel sure is the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000682">that my cousin Arthur is innocent of this crime.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">“I fully share your opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and I trust,</span>
   <span id="f000685">with you,</span>
   <span id="f000686">that we may prove it,” returned Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000687">going back to the mat to knock the snow from his shoes.</span>
   <span id="f000688">“I believe I have the honour of addressing Miss Mary Holder.</span>
   <span id="f000689">Might I ask you a question or two?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">“Pray do,</span>
   <span id="f000691">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000692">if it may help to clear this horrible affair up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000693">“You heard nothing yourself last night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">“Nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000695">until my uncle here began to speak loudly.</span>
   <span id="f000696">I heard that,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and I came down.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">“You shut up the windows and doors the night before.</span>
   <span id="f000699">Did you fasten all the windows?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000700">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000701">“Were they all fastened this morning?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">“You have a maid who has a sweetheart?</span>
   <span id="f000704">I think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000705">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000706">and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000707">and who may have heard uncle’s remarks about the coronet.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000708">“I see.</span>
   <span id="f000709">You infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart,</span>
   <span id="f000710">and that the two may have planned the robbery.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“But what is the good of all these vague theories,” cried the banker impatiently,</span>
   <span id="f000712">“when I have told you that I saw Arthur with the coronet in his hands?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000713">“Wait a little,</span>
   <span id="f000714">Mr.&#160;Holder.</span>
   <span id="f000715">We must come back to that.</span>
   <span id="f000716">About this girl,</span>
   <span id="f000717">Miss Holder.</span>
   <span id="f000718">You saw her return by the kitchen door,</span>
   <span id="f000719">I presume?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000720">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000721">when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I met her slipping in.</span>
   <span id="f000722">I saw the man,</span>
   <span id="f000723">too,</span>
   <span id="f000724">in the gloom.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000725">“Do you know him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000726">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000727">yes!</span>
   <span id="f000728">he is the green-grocer who brings our vegetables round.</span>
   <span id="f000729">His name is Francis Prosper.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">“He stood,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000731">“to the left of the door – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000732">farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000734">he did.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">“And he is a man with a wooden leg?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000736">Something like fear sprang up in the young lady’s expressive black eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000737">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000738">you are like a magician,” said she.</span>
   <span id="f000739">“How do you know that?” She smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000740">but there was no answering smile in Holmes’ thin,</span>
   <span id="f000741">eager face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000742">“I should be very glad now to go upstairs,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000743">“I shall probably wish to go over the outside of the house again.</span>
   <span id="f000744">Perhaps I had better take a look at the lower windows before I go up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">He walked swiftly round from one to the other,</span>
   <span id="f000746">pausing only at the large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane.</span>
   <span id="f000747">This he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying lens.</span>
   <span id="f000748">“Now we shall go upstairs,” said he at last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000749">The banker’s dressing-room was a plainly furnished little chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000750">with a grey carpet,</span>
   <span id="f000751">a large bureau,</span>
   <span id="f000752">and a long mirror.</span>
   <span id="f000753">Holmes went to the bureau first and looked hard at the lock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">“Which key was used to open it?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000755">“That which my son himself indicated – that of the cupboard of the lumber-room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000756">“Have you it here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">“That is it on the dressing-table.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000758">Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000759">“It is a noiseless lock,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000760">“It is no wonder that it did not wake you.</span>
   <span id="f000761">This case,</span>
   <span id="f000762">I presume,</span>
   <span id="f000763">contains the coronet.</span>
   <span id="f000764">We must have a look at it.” He opened the case,</span>
   <span id="f000765">and taking out the diadem he laid it upon the table.</span>
   <span id="f000766">It was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller’s art,</span>
   <span id="f000767">and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen.</span>
   <span id="f000768">At one side of the coronet was a cracked edge,</span>
   <span id="f000769">where a corner holding three gems had been torn away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000770">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000771">Mr.&#160;Holder,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000772">“here is the corner which corresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost.</span>
   <span id="f000773">Might I beg that you will break it off.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000774">The banker recoiled in horror.</span>
   <span id="f000775">“I should not dream of trying,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000776">“Then I will.” Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000777">but without result.</span>
   <span id="f000778">“I feel it give a little,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000779">“but,</span>
   <span id="f000780">though I am exceptionally strong in the fingers,</span>
   <span id="f000781">it would take me all my time to break it.</span>
   <span id="f000782">An ordinary man could not do it.</span>
   <span id="f000783">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000784">what do you think would happen if I did break it,</span>
   <span id="f000785">Mr.&#160;Holder?</span>
   <span id="f000786">There would be a noise like a pistol shot.</span>
   <span id="f000787">Do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000788">“I do not know what to think.</span>
   <span id="f000789">It is all dark to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000790">“But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go.</span>
   <span id="f000791">What do you think,</span>
   <span id="f000792">Miss Holder?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000793">“I confess that I still share my uncle’s perplexity.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000794">“Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000795">“He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">“Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000797">We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck during this inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not succeed in clearing the matter up.</span>
   <span id="f000799">With your permission,</span>
   <span id="f000800">Mr.&#160;Holder,</span>
   <span id="f000801">I shall now continue my investigations outside.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">He went alone,</span>
   <span id="f000803">at his own request,</span>
   <span id="f000804">for he explained that any unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult.</span>
   <span id="f000805">For an hour or more he was at work,</span>
   <span id="f000806">returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features as inscrutable as ever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000807">“I think that I have seen now all that there is to see,</span>
   <span id="f000808">Mr.&#160;Holder,” said he;</span>
   <span id="f000809">“I can serve you best by returning to my rooms.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">“But the gems,</span>
   <span id="f000811">Mr.&#160;Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000812">Where are they?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">“I cannot tell.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000814">The banker wrung his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000815">“I shall never see them again!” he cried.</span>
   <span id="f000816">“And my son?</span>
   <span id="f000817">You give me hopes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000818">“My opinion is in no way altered.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000819">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000820">for God’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f000821">what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">“If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow morning between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it clearer.</span>
   <span id="f000823">I understand that you give me carte blanche to act for you,</span>
   <span id="f000824">provided only that I get back the gems,</span>
   <span id="f000825">and that you place no limit on the sum I may draw.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000826">“I would give my fortune to have them back.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000827">“Very good.</span>
   <span id="f000828">I shall look into the matter between this and then.</span>
   <span id="f000829">Good-bye;</span>
   <span id="f000830">it is just possible that I may have to come over here again before evening.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000831">It was obvious to me that my companion’s mind was now made up about the case,</span>
   <span id="f000832">although what his conclusions were was more than I could even dimly imagine.</span>
   <span id="f000833">Several times during our homeward journey I endeavoured to sound him upon the point,</span>
   <span id="f000834">but he always glided away to some other topic,</span>
   <span id="f000835">until at last I gave it over in despair.</span>
   <span id="f000836">It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our rooms once more.</span>
   <span id="f000837">He hurried to his chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer.</span>
   <span id="f000838">With his collar turned up,</span>
   <span id="f000839">his shiny,</span>
   <span id="f000840">seedy coat,</span>
   <span id="f000841">his red cravat,</span>
   <span id="f000842">and his worn boots,</span>
   <span id="f000843">he was a perfect sample of the class.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000844">“I think that this should do,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000845">glancing into the glass above the fireplace.</span>
   <span id="f000846">“I only wish that you could come with me,</span>
   <span id="f000847">Watson,</span>
   <span id="f000848">but I fear that it won’t do.</span>
   <span id="f000849">I may be on the trail in this matter,</span>
   <span id="f000850">or I may be following a will-o’-the-wisp,</span>
   <span id="f000851">but I shall soon know which it is.</span>
   <span id="f000852">I hope that I may be back in a few hours.” He cut a slice of beef from the joint upon the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000853">sandwiched it between two rounds of bread,</span>
   <span id="f000854">and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000855">I had just finished my tea when he returned,</span>
   <span id="f000856">evidently in excellent spirits,</span>
   <span id="f000857">swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000858">He chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000859">“I only looked in as I passed,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000860">“I am going right on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000861">“Where to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000862">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000863">to the other side of the West End.</span>
   <span id="f000864">It may be some time before I get back.</span>
   <span id="f000865">Don’t wait up for me in case I should be late.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000866">“How are you getting on?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000867">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000868">so so.</span>
   <span id="f000869">Nothing to complain of.</span>
   <span id="f000870">I have been out to Streatham since I saw you last,</span>
   <span id="f000871">but I did not call at the house.</span>
   <span id="f000872">It is a very sweet little problem,</span>
   <span id="f000873">and I would not have missed it for a good deal.</span>
   <span id="f000874">However,</span>
   <span id="f000875">I must not sit gossiping here,</span>
   <span id="f000876">but must get these disreputable clothes off and return to my highly respectable self.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000877">I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply.</span>
   <span id="f000878">His eyes twinkled,</span>
   <span id="f000879">and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks.</span>
   <span id="f000880">He hastened upstairs,</span>
   <span id="f000881">and a few minutes later I heard the slam of the hall door,</span>
   <span id="f000882">which told me that he was off once more upon his congenial hunt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000883">I waited until midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000884">but there was no sign of his return,</span>
   <span id="f000885">so I retired to my room.</span>
   <span id="f000886">It was no uncommon thing for him to be away for days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent,</span>
   <span id="f000887">so that his lateness caused me no surprise.</span>
   <span id="f000888">I do not know at what hour he came in,</span>
   <span id="f000889">but when I came down to breakfast in the morning there he was with a cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other,</span>
   <span id="f000890">as fresh and trim as possible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000891">“You will excuse my beginning without you,</span>
   <span id="f000892">Watson,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000893">“but you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this morning.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000894">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000895">it is after nine now,” I answered.</span>
   <span id="f000896">“I should not be surprised if that were he.</span>
   <span id="f000897">I thought I heard a ring.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000898">It was,</span>
   <span id="f000899">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000900">our friend the financier.</span>
   <span id="f000901">I was shocked by the change which had come over him,</span>
   <span id="f000902">for his face which was naturally of a broad and massive mould,</span>
   <span id="f000903">was now pinched and fallen in,</span>
   <span id="f000904">while his hair seemed to me at least a shade whiter.</span>
   <span id="f000905">He entered with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful than his violence of the morning before,</span>
   <span id="f000906">and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000907">“I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000908">“Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man,</span>
   <span id="f000909">without a care in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000910">Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age.</span>
   <span id="f000911">One sorrow comes close upon the heels of another.</span>
   <span id="f000912">My niece,</span>
   <span id="f000913">Mary,</span>
   <span id="f000914">has deserted me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000915">“Deserted you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000916">Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000917">Her bed this morning had not been slept in,</span>
   <span id="f000918">her room was empty,</span>
   <span id="f000919">and a note for me lay upon the hall table.</span>
   <span id="f000920">I had said to her last night,</span>
   <span id="f000921">in sorrow and not in anger,</span>
   <span id="f000922">that if she had married my boy all might have been well with him.</span>
   <span id="f000923">Perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so.</span>
   <span id="f000924">It is to that remark that she refers in this note:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000925">’MY DEAREST UNCLE:</span>
   <span id="f000926">– I feel that I have brought trouble upon you,</span>
   <span id="f000927">and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might never have occurred.</span>
   <span id="f000928">I cannot,</span>
   <span id="f000929">with this thought in my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000930">ever again be happy under your roof,</span>
   <span id="f000931">and I feel that I must leave you forever.</span>
   <span id="f000932">Do not worry about my future,</span>
   <span id="f000933">for that is provided for;</span>
   <span id="f000934">and,</span>
   <span id="f000935">above all,</span>
   <span id="f000936">do not search for me,</span>
   <span id="f000937">for it will be fruitless labour and an ill-service to me.</span>
   <span id="f000938">In life or in death,</span>
   <span id="f000939">I am ever your loving,</span>
   <span id="f000940">– MARY.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">“What could she mean by that note,</span>
   <span id="f000942">Mr.&#160;Holmes?</span>
   <span id="f000943">Do you think it points to suicide?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000944">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000945">no,</span>
   <span id="f000946">nothing of the kind.</span>
   <span id="f000947">It is perhaps the best possible solution.</span>
   <span id="f000948">I trust,</span>
   <span id="f000949">Mr.&#160;Holder,</span>
   <span id="f000950">that you are nearing the end of your troubles.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000951">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000952">You say so!</span>
   <span id="f000953">You have heard something,</span>
   <span id="f000954">Mr.&#160;Holmes;</span>
   <span id="f000955">you have learned something!</span>
   <span id="f000956">Where are the gems?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000957">“You would not think 1000 pounds apiece an excessive sum for them?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000958">“I would pay ten.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">“That would be unnecessary.</span>
   <span id="f000960">Three thousand will cover the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000961">And there is a little reward,</span>
   <span id="f000962">I fancy.</span>
   <span id="f000963">Have you your check-book?</span>
   <span id="f000964">Here is a pen.</span>
   <span id="f000965">Better make it out for 4000 pounds.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000966">With a dazed face the banker made out the required check.</span>
   <span id="f000967">Holmes walked over to his desk,</span>
   <span id="f000968">took out a little triangular piece of gold with three gems in it,</span>
   <span id="f000969">and threw it down upon the table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000970">With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000971">“You have it!” he gasped.</span>
   <span id="f000972">“I am saved!</span>
   <span id="f000973">I am saved!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000974">The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been,</span>
   <span id="f000975">and he hugged his recovered gems to his bosom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000976">“There is one other thing you owe,</span>
   <span id="f000977">Mr.&#160;Holder,” said Sherlock Holmes rather sternly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000978">“Owe!” He caught up a pen.</span>
   <span id="f000979">“Name the sum,</span>
   <span id="f000980">and I will pay it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000982">the debt is not to me.</span>
   <span id="f000983">You owe a very humble apology to that noble lad,</span>
   <span id="f000984">your son,</span>
   <span id="f000985">who has carried himself in this matter as I should be proud to see my own son do,</span>
   <span id="f000986">should I ever chance to have one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000987">“Then it was not Arthur who took them?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000988">“I told you yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000989">and I repeat to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000990">that it was not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000991">“You are sure of it!</span>
   <span id="f000992">Then let us hurry to him at once to let him know that the truth is known.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000993">“He knows it already.</span>
   <span id="f000994">When I had cleared it all up I had an interview with him,</span>
   <span id="f000995">and finding that he would not tell me the story,</span>
   <span id="f000996">I told it to him,</span>
   <span id="f000997">on which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very few details which were not yet quite clear to me.</span>
   <span id="f000998">Your news of this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000999">however,</span>
   <span id="f001000">may open his lips.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001001">“For heaven’s sake,</span>
   <span id="f001002">tell me,</span>
   <span id="f001003">then,</span>
   <span id="f001004">what is this extraordinary mystery!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001005">“I will do so,</span>
   <span id="f001006">and I will show you the steps by which I reached it.</span>
   <span id="f001007">And let me say to you,</span>
   <span id="f001008">first,</span>
   <span id="f001009">that which it is hardest for me to say and for you to hear:</span>
   <span id="f001010">there has been an understanding between Sir George Burnwell and your niece Mary.</span>
   <span id="f001011">They have now fled together.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001012">“My Mary?</span>
   <span id="f001013">Impossible!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001014">“It is unfortunately more than possible;</span>
   <span id="f001015">it is certain.</span>
   <span id="f001016">Neither you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into your family circle.</span>
   <span id="f001017">He is one of the most dangerous men in England – a ruined gambler,</span>
   <span id="f001018">an absolutely desperate villain,</span>
   <span id="f001019">a man without heart or conscience.</span>
   <span id="f001020">Your niece knew nothing of such men.</span>
   <span id="f001021">When he breathed his vows to her,</span>
   <span id="f001022">as he had done to a hundred before her,</span>
   <span id="f001023">she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart.</span>
   <span id="f001024">The devil knows best what he said,</span>
   <span id="f001025">but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001026">“I cannot,</span>
   <span id="f001027">and I will not,</span>
   <span id="f001028">believe it!” cried the banker with an ashen face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001029">I will tell you,</span>
   <span id="f001030">then,</span>
   <span id="f001031">what occurred in your house last night.</span>
   <span id="f001032">Your niece,</span>
   <span id="f001033">when you had,</span>
   <span id="f001034">as she thought,</span>
   <span id="f001035">gone to your room,</span>
   <span id="f001036">slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable lane.</span>
   <span id="f001037">His footmarks had pressed right through the snow,</span>
   <span id="f001038">so long had he stood there.</span>
   <span id="f001039">She told him of the coronet.</span>
   <span id="f001040">His wicked lust for gold kindled at the news,</span>
   <span id="f001041">and he bent her to his will.</span>
   <span id="f001042">I have no doubt that she loved you,</span>
   <span id="f001043">but there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves,</span>
   <span id="f001044">and I think that she must have been one.</span>
   <span id="f001045">She had hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming downstairs,</span>
   <span id="f001046">on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about one of the servants’ escapade with her wooden-legged lover,</span>
   <span id="f001047">which was all perfectly true.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001048">Your boy,</span>
   <span id="f001049">Arthur,</span>
   <span id="f001050">went to bed after his interview with you but he slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts.</span>
   <span id="f001051">In the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door,</span>
   <span id="f001052">so he rose and,</span>
   <span id="f001053">looking out,</span>
   <span id="f001054">was surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your dressing-room.</span>
   <span id="f001055">Petrified with astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f001056">the lad slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this strange affair.</span>
   <span id="f001057">Presently she emerged from the room again,</span>
   <span id="f001058">and in the light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the precious coronet in her hands.</span>
   <span id="f001059">She passed down the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f001060">and he,</span>
   <span id="f001061">thrilling with horror,</span>
   <span id="f001062">ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door,</span>
   <span id="f001063">whence he could see what passed in the hall beneath.</span>
   <span id="f001064">He saw her stealthily open the window,</span>
   <span id="f001065">hand out the coronet to someone in the gloom,</span>
   <span id="f001066">and then closing it once more hurry back to her room,</span>
   <span id="f001067">passing quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001068">“As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved.</span>
   <span id="f001069">But the instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you,</span>
   <span id="f001070">and how all-important it was to set it right.</span>
   <span id="f001071">He rushed down,</span>
   <span id="f001072">just as he was,</span>
   <span id="f001073">in his bare feet,</span>
   <span id="f001074">opened the window,</span>
   <span id="f001075">sprang out into the snow,</span>
   <span id="f001076">and ran down the lane,</span>
   <span id="f001077">where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight.</span>
   <span id="f001078">Sir George Burnwell tried to get away,</span>
   <span id="f001079">but Arthur caught him,</span>
   <span id="f001080">and there was a struggle between them,</span>
   <span id="f001081">your lad tugging at one side of the coronet,</span>
   <span id="f001082">and his opponent at the other.</span>
   <span id="f001083">In the scuffle,</span>
   <span id="f001084">your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye.</span>
   <span id="f001085">Then something suddenly snapped,</span>
   <span id="f001086">and your son,</span>
   <span id="f001087">finding that he had the coronet in his hands,</span>
   <span id="f001088">rushed back,</span>
   <span id="f001089">closed the window,</span>
   <span id="f001090">ascended to your room,</span>
   <span id="f001091">and had just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001092">“Is it possible?” gasped the banker.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001093">“You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks.</span>
   <span id="f001094">He could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands.</span>
   <span id="f001095">He took the more chivalrous view,</span>
   <span id="f001096">however,</span>
   <span id="f001097">and preserved her secret.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001098">“And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet,” cried Mr.&#160;Holder.</span>
   <span id="f001099">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001100">my God!</span>
   <span id="f001101">what a blind fool I have been!</span>
   <span id="f001102">And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes!</span>
   <span id="f001103">The dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle.</span>
   <span id="f001104">How cruelly I have misjudged him!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001105">“When I arrived at the house,” continued Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001106">"I at once went very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow which might help me.</span>
   <span id="f001107">I knew that none had fallen since the evening before,</span>
   <span id="f001108">and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions.</span>
   <span id="f001109">I passed along the tradesmen’s path,</span>
   <span id="f001110">but found it all trampled down and indistinguishable.</span>
   <span id="f001111">Just beyond it,</span>
   <span id="f001112">however,</span>
   <span id="f001113">at the far side of the kitchen door,</span>
   <span id="f001114">a woman had stood and talked with a man,</span>
   <span id="f001115">whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg.</span>
   <span id="f001116">I could even tell that they had been disturbed,</span>
   <span id="f001117">for the woman had run back swiftly to the door,</span>
   <span id="f001118">as was shown by the deep toe and light heel marks,</span>
   <span id="f001119">while Wooden-leg had waited a little,</span>
   <span id="f001120">and then had gone away.</span>
   <span id="f001121">I thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart,</span>
   <span id="f001122">of whom you had already spoken to me,</span>
   <span id="f001123">and inquiry showed it was so.</span>
   <span id="f001124">I passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks,</span>
   <span id="f001125">which I took to be the police;</span>
   <span id="f001126">but when I got into the stable lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001127">There was a double line of tracks of a booted man,</span>
   <span id="f001128">and a second double line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked feet.</span>
   <span id="f001129">I was at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your son.</span>
   <span id="f001130">The first had walked both ways,</span>
   <span id="f001131">but the other had run swiftly,</span>
   <span id="f001132">and as his tread was marked in places over the depression of the boot,</span>
   <span id="f001133">it was obvious that he had passed after the other.</span>
   <span id="f001134">I followed them up and found they led to the hall window,</span>
   <span id="f001135">where Boots had worn all the snow away while waiting.</span>
   <span id="f001136">Then I walked to the other end,</span>
   <span id="f001137">which was a hundred yards or more down the lane.</span>
   <span id="f001138">I saw where Boots had faced round,</span>
   <span id="f001139">where the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle,</span>
   <span id="f001140">and,</span>
   <span id="f001141">finally,</span>
   <span id="f001142">where a few drops of blood had fallen,</span>
   <span id="f001143">to show me that I was not mistaken.</span>
   <span id="f001144">Boots had then run down the lane,</span>
   <span id="f001145">and another little smudge of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt.</span>
   <span id="f001146">When he came to the highroad at the other end,</span>
   <span id="f001147">I found that the pavement had been cleared,</span>
   <span id="f001148">so there was an end to that clue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001149">On entering the house,</span>
   <span id="f001150">however,</span>
   <span id="f001151">I examined,</span>
   <span id="f001152">as you remember,</span>
   <span id="f001153">the sill and framework of the hall window with my lens,</span>
   <span id="f001154">and I could at once see that someone had passed out.</span>
   <span id="f001155">I could distinguish the outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in.</span>
   <span id="f001156">I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred.</span>
   <span id="f001157">A man had waited outside the window;</span>
   <span id="f001158">someone had brought the gems;</span>
   <span id="f001159">the deed had been overseen by your son;</span>
   <span id="f001160">he had pursued the thief;</span>
   <span id="f001161">had struggled with him;</span>
   <span id="f001162">they had each tugged at the coronet,</span>
   <span id="f001163">their united strength causing injuries which neither alone could have effected.</span>
   <span id="f001164">He had returned with the prize,</span>
   <span id="f001165">but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent.</span>
   <span id="f001166">So far I was clear.</span>
   <span id="f001167">The question now was,</span>
   <span id="f001168">who was the man and who was it brought him the coronet?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001169">It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible,</span>
   <span id="f001170">whatever remains,</span>
   <span id="f001171">however improbable,</span>
   <span id="f001172">must be the truth.</span>
   <span id="f001173">Now,</span>
   <span id="f001174">I knew that it was not you who had brought it down,</span>
   <span id="f001175">so there only remained your niece and the maids.</span>
   <span id="f001176">But if it were the maids,</span>
   <span id="f001177">why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place?</span>
   <span id="f001178">There could be no possible reason.</span>
   <span id="f001179">As he loved his cousin,</span>
   <span id="f001180">however,</span>
   <span id="f001181">there was an excellent explanation why he should retain her secret – the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one.</span>
   <span id="f001182">When I remembered that you had seen her at that window,</span>
   <span id="f001183">and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again,</span>
   <span id="f001184">my conjecture became a certainty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001185">And who could it be who was her confederate?</span>
   <span id="f001186">A lover evidently,</span>
   <span id="f001187">for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you?</span>
   <span id="f001188">I knew that you went out little,</span>
   <span id="f001189">and that your circle of friends was a very limited one.</span>
   <span id="f001190">But among them was Sir George Burnwell.</span>
   <span id="f001191">I had heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women.</span>
   <span id="f001192">It must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems.</span>
   <span id="f001193">Even though he knew that Arthur had discovered him,</span>
   <span id="f001194">he might still flatter himself that he was safe,</span>
   <span id="f001195">for the lad could not say a word without compromising his own family.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001196">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001197">your own good sense will suggest what measures I took next.</span>
   <span id="f001198">I went in the shape of a loafer to Sir George’s house,</span>
   <span id="f001199">managed to pick up an acquaintance with his valet,</span>
   <span id="f001200">learned that his master had cut his head the night before,</span>
   <span id="f001201">and,</span>
   <span id="f001202">finally,</span>
   <span id="f001203">at the expense of six shillings,</span>
   <span id="f001204">made all sure by buying a pair of his cast-off shoes.</span>
   <span id="f001205">With these I journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the tracks.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001206">“I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening,” said Mr.&#160;Holder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001207">“Precisely.</span>
   <span id="f001208">It was I.</span>
   <span id="f001209">I found that I had my man,</span>
   <span id="f001210">so I came home and changed my clothes.</span>
   <span id="f001211">It was a delicate part which I had to play then,</span>
   <span id="f001212">for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal,</span>
   <span id="f001213">and I knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the matter.</span>
   <span id="f001214">I went and saw him.</span>
   <span id="f001215">At first,</span>
   <span id="f001216">of course,</span>
   <span id="f001217">he denied everything.</span>
   <span id="f001218">But when I gave him every particular that had occurred,</span>
   <span id="f001219">he tried to bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall.</span>
   <span id="f001220">I knew my man,</span>
   <span id="f001221">however,</span>
   <span id="f001222">and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike.</span>
   <span id="f001223">Then he became a little more reasonable.</span>
   <span id="f001224">I told him that we would give him a price for the stones he held – 1000 pounds apiece.</span>
   <span id="f001225">That brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown.</span>
   <span id="f001226">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f001227">dash it all!’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f001228">’I’ve let them go at six hundred for the three!’ I soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them,</span>
   <span id="f001229">on promising him that there would be no prosecution.</span>
   <span id="f001230">Off I set to him,</span>
   <span id="f001231">and after much chaffering I got our stones at 1000 pounds apiece.</span>
   <span id="f001232">Then I looked in upon your son,</span>
   <span id="f001233">told him that all was right,</span>
   <span id="f001234">and eventually got to my bed about two o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f001235">after what I may call a really hard day’s work.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001236">“A day which has saved England from a great public scandal,” said the banker,</span>
   <span id="f001237">rising.</span>
   <span id="f001238">“Sir,</span>
   <span id="f001239">I cannot find words to thank you,</span>
   <span id="f001240">but you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done.</span>
   <span id="f001241">Your skill has indeed exceeded all that I have heard of it.</span>
   <span id="f001242">And now I must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which I have done him.</span>
   <span id="f001243">As to what you tell me of poor Mary,</span>
   <span id="f001244">it goes to my very heart.</span>
   <span id="f001245">Not even your skill can inform me where she is now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001246">“I think that we may safely say,” returned Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001247">“that she is wherever Sir George Burnwell is.</span>
   <span id="f001248">It is equally certain,</span>
   <span id="f001249">too,</span>
   <span id="f001250">that whatever her sins are,</span>
   <span id="f001251">they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

