<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">A Modern Cinderella<br />or,<br />The Little Old Shoe</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part I<br />How It Was Lost</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">Among green New England hills stood an ancient house,</span>
   <span id="f000004">many-gabled,</span>
   <span id="f000005">mossy-roofed,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and quaintly built,</span>
   <span id="f000007">but picturesque and pleasant to the eye;</span>
   <span id="f000008">for a brook ran babbling through the orchard that encompassed it about,</span>
   <span id="f000009">a garden-plat stretched upward to the whispering birches on the slope,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and patriarchal elms stood sentinel upon the lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000011">as they had stood almost a century ago,</span>
   <span id="f000012">when the Revolution rolled that way and found them young.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">One summer morning,</span>
   <span id="f000014">when the air was full of country sounds,</span>
   <span id="f000015">of mowers in the meadow,</span>
   <span id="f000016">black-birds by the brook,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and the low of kine upon the hill-side,</span>
   <span id="f000018">the old house wore its cheeriest aspect,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and a certain humble history began.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000020">“Nan!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000021">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000022">Di.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000023">And a head,</span>
   <span id="f000024">brown-locked,</span>
   <span id="f000025">blue-eyed,</span>
   <span id="f000026">soft-featured,</span>
   <span id="f000027">looked in at the open door in answer to the call.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">“Just bring me the third volume of ’Wilhelm Meister,’ there’s a dear.</span>
   <span id="f000029">It’s hardly worth while to rouse such a restless ghost as I,</span>
   <span id="f000030">when I’m once fairly laid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">As she spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000032">Di pulled up her black braids,</span>
   <span id="f000033">thumped the pillow of the couch where she was lying,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and with eager eyes went down the last page of her book.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">“Nan!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000037">Laura,” replied the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000038">coming back with the third volume for the literary cormorant,</span>
   <span id="f000039">who took it with a nod,</span>
   <span id="f000040">still too content upon the “Confessions of a Fair Saint” to remember the failings of a certain plain sinner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">“Don’t forget the Italian cream for dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000042">I depend upon it;</span>
   <span id="f000043">for it’s the only thing fit for me this hot weather.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">And Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000045">the cool blonde,</span>
   <span id="f000046">disposed the folds of her white gown more gracefully about her,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and touched up the eyebrow of the Minerva she was drawing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“Little daughter!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000050">father.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">“Let me have plenty of clean collars in my bag,</span>
   <span id="f000052">for I must go at once;</span>
   <span id="f000053">and some of you bring me a glass of cider in about an hour;</span>
   <span id="f000054">– I shall be in the lower garden.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">The old man went away into his imaginary paradise,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and Nan into that domestic purgatory on a summer day,</span>
   <span id="f000057">– the kitchen.</span>
   <span id="f000058">There were vines about the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000059">sunshine on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and order everywhere;</span>
   <span id="f000061">but it was haunted by a cooking-stove,</span>
   <span id="f000062">that family altar whence such varied incense rises to appease the appetite of household gods,</span>
   <span id="f000063">before which such dire incantations are pronounced to ease the wrath and woe of the priestess of the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and about which often linger saddest memories of wasted temper,</span>
   <span id="f000065">time,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and toil.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">Nan was tired,</span>
   <span id="f000068">having risen with the birds,</span>
   <span id="f000069">– hurried,</span>
   <span id="f000070">having many cares those happy little housewives never know,</span>
   <span id="f000071">– and disappointed in a hope that hourly “dwindled,</span>
   <span id="f000072">peaked,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and pined.” She was too young to make the anxious lines upon her forehead seem at home there,</span>
   <span id="f000074">too patient to be burdened with the labor others should have shared,</span>
   <span id="f000075">too light of heart to be pent up when earth and sky were keeping a blithe holiday.</span>
   <span id="f000076">But she was one of that meek sisterhood who,</span>
   <span id="f000077">thinking humbly of themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000078">believe they are honored by being spent in the service of less conscientious souls,</span>
   <span id="f000079">whose careless thanks seem quite reward enough.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">To and fro she went,</span>
   <span id="f000081">silent and diligent,</span>
   <span id="f000082">giving the grace of willingness to every humble or distasteful task the day had brought her;</span>
   <span id="f000083">but some malignant sprite seemed to have taken possession of her kingdom,</span>
   <span id="f000084">for rebellion broke out everywhere.</span>
   <span id="f000085">The kettles would boil over most obstreperously,</span>
   <span id="f000086">– the mutton refused to cook with the meek alacrity to be expected from the nature of a sheep,</span>
   <span id="f000087">– the stove,</span>
   <span id="f000088">with unnecessary warmth of temper,</span>
   <span id="f000089">would glow like a fiery furnace,</span>
   <span id="f000090">– the irons would scorch,</span>
   <span id="f000091">– the linens would dry,</span>
   <span id="f000092">– and spirits would fail,</span>
   <span id="f000093">though patience never.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000094">Nan tugged on,</span>
   <span id="f000095">growing hotter and wearier,</span>
   <span id="f000096">more hurried and more hopeless,</span>
   <span id="f000097">till at last the crisis came;</span>
   <span id="f000098">for in one fell moment she tore her gown,</span>
   <span id="f000099">burnt her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and smutched the collar she was preparing to finish in the most unexceptionable style.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000102">if she had been a nervous woman,</span>
   <span id="f000103">she would have scolded;</span>
   <span id="f000104">being a gentle girl,</span>
   <span id="f000105">she only “lifted up her voice and wept.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Behold,</span>
   <span id="f000107">she watereth her linen with salt tears,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and bewaileth herself because of much tribulation.</span>
   <span id="f000109">But,</span>
   <span id="f000110">lo!</span>
   <span id="f000111">Help cometh from afar:</span>
   <span id="f000112">a strong man bringeth lettuce wherewith to stay her,</span>
   <span id="f000113">plucketh berries to comfort her withal,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and clasheth cymbals that she may dance for joy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">The voice came from the porch,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and,</span>
   <span id="f000117">with her hope fulfilled,</span>
   <span id="f000118">Nan looked up to greet John Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000119">the house-friend,</span>
   <span id="f000120">who stood there with a basket on his arm;</span>
   <span id="f000121">and as she saw his honest eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000122">kind lips,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and helpful hands,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the girl thought this plain young man the comeliest,</span>
   <span id="f000125">most welcome sight she had beheld that day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“How good of you,</span>
   <span id="f000127">to come through all this heat,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and not to laugh at my despair!” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000129">looking up like a grateful child,</span>
   <span id="f000130">as she led him in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“I only obeyed orders,</span>
   <span id="f000132">Nan;</span>
   <span id="f000133">for a certain dear old lady had a motherly presentiment that you had got into a domestic whirlpool,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and sent me as a sort of life-preserver.</span>
   <span id="f000135">So I took the basket of consolation,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and came to fold my feet upon the carpet of contentment in the tent of friendship.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">As he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000138">John gave his own gift in his mother’s name,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and bestowed himself in the wide window-seat,</span>
   <span id="f000140">where morning-glories nodded at him,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and the old butternut sent pleasant shadows dancing to and fro.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">His advent,</span>
   <span id="f000143">like that of Orpheus in hades,</span>
   <span id="f000144">seemed to soothe all unpropitious powers with a sudden spell.</span>
   <span id="f000145">The Fire began to slacken,</span>
   <span id="f000146">the kettles began to lull,</span>
   <span id="f000147">the meat began to cook,</span>
   <span id="f000148">the irons began to cool,</span>
   <span id="f000149">the clothes began to behave,</span>
   <span id="f000150">the spirits began to rise,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and the collar was finished off with most triumphant success.</span>
   <span id="f000152">John watched the change,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and,</span>
   <span id="f000154">though a lord of creation,</span>
   <span id="f000155">abased himself to take compassion on the weaker vessel,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and was seized with a great desire to lighten the homely tasks that tried her strength of body and soul.</span>
   <span id="f000157">He took a comprehensive glance about the room;</span>
   <span id="f000158">then,</span>
   <span id="f000159">extracting a dish from he closet,</span>
   <span id="f000160">proceeded to imbrue his hands in the strawberries’ blood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000162">John,</span>
   <span id="f000163">you needn’t do that;</span>
   <span id="f000164">I shall have time when I’ve turned the meat,</span>
   <span id="f000165">made the pudding and done these things.</span>
   <span id="f000166">See,</span>
   <span id="f000167">I’m getting on finely now:</span>
   <span id="f000168">– you’re a judge of such matters;</span>
   <span id="f000169">isn’t that nice?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">As she spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Nan offered the polished absurdity for inspection with innocent pride.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“Oh that I were a collar,</span>
   <span id="f000173">to sit upon that hand!” sighed John,</span>
   <span id="f000174">– adding,</span>
   <span id="f000175">argumentatively,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“As to the berry question,</span>
   <span id="f000177">I might answer it with a gem from Dr.&#160;Watts,</span>
   <span id="f000178">relative to ’Satan’ and idle hands,’ but will merely say,</span>
   <span id="f000179">that,</span>
   <span id="f000180">as a matter of public safety,</span>
   <span id="f000181">you’d better leave me alone;</span>
   <span id="f000182">for such is the destructiveness of my nature,</span>
   <span id="f000183">that I shall certainly eat something hurtful,</span>
   <span id="f000184">break something valuable,</span>
   <span id="f000185">or sit upon something crushable,</span>
   <span id="f000186">unless you let me concentrate my energies by knocking on these young fellows’ hats,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and preparing them for their doom.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">Looking at the matter in a charitable light,</span>
   <span id="f000189">Nan consented,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and went cheerfully on with her work,</span>
   <span id="f000191">wondering how she could have thought ironing an infliction,</span>
   <span id="f000192">and been so ungrateful for the blessings of her lot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000193">“Where’s Sally?” asked John,</span>
   <span id="f000194">looking vainly for the functionary who usually pervaded that region like a domestic police-woman,</span>
   <span id="f000195">a terror to cats,</span>
   <span id="f000196">dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and men.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“She has gone to her cousin’s funeral,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and won’t be back till Monday.</span>
   <span id="f000200">There seems to be a great fatality among her relations;</span>
   <span id="f000201">for one dies,</span>
   <span id="f000202">or comes to grief in some way,</span>
   <span id="f000203">about once a month.</span>
   <span id="f000204">But I don’t blame poor Sally for wanting to get away from this place now and then.</span>
   <span id="f000205">I think I could find it in my heart to murder an imaginary friend or two,</span>
   <span id="f000206">if I had to stay here long.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">And Nan laughed so blithely,</span>
   <span id="f000208">it was a pleasure to hear her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“Where’s Di?” asked John,</span>
   <span id="f000210">seized with a most unmasculine curiosity all at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“She is in Germany with ’Wilhelm Meister’;</span>
   <span id="f000212">but,</span>
   <span id="f000213">though ’lost to sight,</span>
   <span id="f000214">to memory clear’;</span>
   <span id="f000215">for I was just thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000216">as I did her things,</span>
   <span id="f000217">how clever she is to like all kinds of books that I don’t understand at all,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and to write things that make me cry with pride and delight.</span>
   <span id="f000219">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000220">she’s a talented dear,</span>
   <span id="f000221">though she hardly knows a needle from a crowbar,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and will make herself one great blot some of these days,</span>
   <span id="f000223">when the ’divine afflatus’ descends upon her,</span>
   <span id="f000224">I’m afraid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">And Nan rubbed away with sisterly zeal at Di’s forlorn hose and inky pocket-handkerchiefs.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“Where is Laura?” proceeded the inquisitor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000228">I might say that she was in Italy;</span>
   <span id="f000229">for she is copying some fine thing of Raphael’s or Michael Angelo’s,</span>
   <span id="f000230">or some great creatures or other;</span>
   <span id="f000231">and she looks so picturesque in her pretty gown,</span>
   <span id="f000232">sitting before her easel,</span>
   <span id="f000233">that it’s really a sight to behold,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and I’ve peeped two or three times to see how she gets on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">And Nan bestirred herself to prepare the dish Wherewith her picturesque sister desired to prolong her artistic existence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“Where is your father?” John asked again,</span>
   <span id="f000237">checking off each answer with a nod and a little frown.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“He is down in the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000239">deep in some plan about melons,</span>
   <span id="f000240">the beginning of which seems to consist in stamping the first proposition in Euclid all over the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and then poking a few seeds into the middle of each.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000243">bless the dear man!</span>
   <span id="f000244">I forgot it was time for the cider.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Wouldn’t you like to take it to him,</span>
   <span id="f000246">John?</span>
   <span id="f000247">He’d love to consult you;</span>
   <span id="f000248">and the lane is so cool,</span>
   <span id="f000249">it does one’s heart good to look at it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">John glanced from the steamy kitchen to the shadowy path,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and answered with a sudden assumption of immense industry,</span>
   <span id="f000252">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">I couldn’t possibly go,</span>
   <span id="f000254">Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000255">– I’ve so much on my hands.</span>
   <span id="f000256">You’ll have to do it yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000257">’Mr.&#160;Robert of Lincoln’ has something for your private ear;</span>
   <span id="f000258">and the lane is so cool,</span>
   <span id="f000259">it will do one’s heart good to see you in it.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Give my regards to your father,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and,</span>
   <span id="f000262">in the words of ’Little Mabel’s’ mother,</span>
   <span id="f000263">with slight variation,</span>
   <span id="f000264">–</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000265">’Tell the dear old body<br /></span>
   <span id="f000266">This day I cannot run,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000267">For the pots are boiling over<br /></span>
   <span id="f000268">And the mutton isn’t done.’"</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000269">“I will;</span>
   <span id="f000270">but please,</span>
   <span id="f000271">John,</span>
   <span id="f000272">go in to the girls and be comfortable;</span>
   <span id="f000273">for I don’t like to leave you here,” said Nan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“You insinuate that I should pick at the pudding or invade the cream,</span>
   <span id="f000275">do you?</span>
   <span id="f000276">Ungrateful girl,</span>
   <span id="f000277">leave me!” And,</span>
   <span id="f000278">with melodramatic sternness,</span>
   <span id="f000279">John extinguished her in his broad-brimmed hat,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and offered the glass like a poisoned goblet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">Nan took it,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and went smiling away.</span>
   <span id="f000283">But the lane might have been the Desert of Sahara,</span>
   <span id="f000284">for all she knew of it;</span>
   <span id="f000285">and she would have passed her father as unconcernedly as if he had been an apple-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000286">had he not called out,</span>
   <span id="f000287">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">“Stand and deliver,</span>
   <span id="f000289">little woman!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">She obeyed the venerable highwayman,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and followed him to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000292">listening to his plans and directions with a mute attention that quite won his heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“That hop-pole is really an ornament now,</span>
   <span id="f000294">Nan;</span>
   <span id="f000295">this sage-bed needs weeding,</span>
   <span id="f000296">– that’s good work for you girls;</span>
   <span id="f000297">and,</span>
   <span id="f000298">now I think of it,</span>
   <span id="f000299">you’d better water the lettuce in the cool of the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000300">after I’m gone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">To all of which remarks Nan gave her assent;</span>
   <span id="f000302">the hop-pole took the likeness of a tall figure she had seen in the porch,</span>
   <span id="f000303">the sage-bed,</span>
   <span id="f000304">curiously enough,</span>
   <span id="f000305">suggested a strawberry ditto,</span>
   <span id="f000306">the lettuce vividly reminded her of certain vegetable productions a basket had brought,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and the bobolink only sung in his cheeriest voice,</span>
   <span id="f000308">“Go home,</span>
   <span id="f000309">go home!</span>
   <span id="f000310">he is there!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">She found John – he having made a free-mason of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000312">by assuming her little apron – meditating over the partially spread table,</span>
   <span id="f000313">lost in amaze at its desolate appearance;</span>
   <span id="f000314">one half its proper paraphernalia having been forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and the other half put on awry.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Nan laughed till the tears ran over her cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and John was gratified at the efficacy of his treatment;</span>
   <span id="f000318">for her face had brought a whole harvest of sunshine from the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and all her cares seemed to have been lost in the windings of the lane.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000321">are you in hysterics?” cried Di,</span>
   <span id="f000322">appearing,</span>
   <span id="f000323">book in hand.</span>
   <span id="f000324">“John,</span>
   <span id="f000325">you absurd man,</span>
   <span id="f000326">what are you doing?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“I’m helpin’ the maid of all work,</span>
   <span id="f000328">please marm.” And John dropped a curtsy with his limited apron.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">Di looked ruffled,</span>
   <span id="f000330">for the merry words were a covert reproach;</span>
   <span id="f000331">and with her usual energy of manner and freedom of speech she tossed “Wilhelm” out of the window,</span>
   <span id="f000332">exclaiming,</span>
   <span id="f000333">irefully.</span>
   <span id="f000334">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“That’s always the way;</span>
   <span id="f000336">I’m never where I ought to be,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and never think of anything till it’s too late;</span>
   <span id="f000338">but it’s all Goethe’s fault.</span>
   <span id="f000339">What does he write books full of smart ’Phillinas’ and interesting ’Meisters’ for?</span>
   <span id="f000340">How can I be expected to remember that Sally’s away,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and people must eat,</span>
   <span id="f000342">when I’m hearing the ’Harper’ and little ’Mignon?’ John,</span>
   <span id="f000343">how dare you come here and do my work,</span>
   <span id="f000344">instead of shaking me and telling me to do it myself?</span>
   <span id="f000345">Take that toasted child away,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and fan her like a Chinese mandarin,</span>
   <span id="f000347">while I dish up this dreadful dinner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">John and Nan fled like chaff before the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000349">while Di,</span>
   <span id="f000350">full of remorseful zeal,</span>
   <span id="f000351">charged at the kettles,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and wrenched off the potatoes’ jackets,</span>
   <span id="f000353">as if she were revengefully pulling her own hair.</span>
   <span id="f000354">Laura had a vague intention of going to assist;</span>
   <span id="f000355">but,</span>
   <span id="f000356">getting lost among the lights and shadows of Minerva’s helmet,</span>
   <span id="f000357">forgot to appear till dinner had been evoked from chaos and peace was restored.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">At three o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000359">Di performed the coronation ceremony with her father’s best hat;</span>
   <span id="f000360">Laura retied his old-fashioned neckcloth,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and arranged his white locks with an eye to saintly effect;</span>
   <span id="f000362">Nan appeared with a beautifully written sermon,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and suspicious ink-stains on the fingers that slipped it into his pocket;</span>
   <span id="f000364">John attached himself to the bag;</span>
   <span id="f000365">and the patriarch was escorted to the door of his tent with the triumphal procession which usually attended his out-goings and in-comings.</span>
   <span id="f000366">Having kissed the female portion of his tribe,</span>
   <span id="f000367">he ascended the venerable chariot,</span>
   <span id="f000368">which received him with audible lamentation,</span>
   <span id="f000369">as its rheumatic joints swayed to and fro.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">“Good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f000371">my dears!</span>
   <span id="f000372">I shall be back early on Monday morning;</span>
   <span id="f000373">so take care of yourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and be sure you all go and hear Mr.&#160;Emerboy preach to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000375">My regards to your mother.</span>
   <span id="f000376">John.</span>
   <span id="f000377">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000378">Solon!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">But Solon merely cocked one ear,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and remained a fixed fact;</span>
   <span id="f000381">for long experience had induced the philosophic beast to take for his motto the Yankee maxim,</span>
   <span id="f000382">"Be sure you’re right,</span>
   <span id="f000383">then go ahead!</span>
   <span id="f000384">He knew things were not right;</span>
   <span id="f000385">therefore he did not go ahead.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000387">by the way,</span>
   <span id="f000388">girls,</span>
   <span id="f000389">don’t forget to pay Tommy Mullein for bringing up the cow:</span>
   <span id="f000390">he expects it to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000391">And Di,</span>
   <span id="f000392">don’t sit up till daylight,</span>
   <span id="f000393">nor let Laura stay out in the dew.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000395">I believe I’m off.</span>
   <span id="f000396">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000397">Solon!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">But Solon only cocked the other ear,</span>
   <span id="f000399">gently agitated his mortified tail,</span>
   <span id="f000400">as premonitory symptoms of departure,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and never stirred a hoof,</span>
   <span id="f000402">being well aware that it always took three “comes” to make a “go.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">“Bless me!</span>
   <span id="f000404">I’ve forgotten my spectacles.</span>
   <span id="f000405">They are probably shut up in that volume of Herbert on my table.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Very awkward to find myself without them ten miles away.</span>
   <span id="f000407">Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000408">John.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Don’t neglect to water the lettuce,</span>
   <span id="f000410">Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and don’t overwork yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000412">my little ’Martha.’ Come – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">At this juncture Solon suddenly went off,</span>
   <span id="f000414">like “Mrs.&#160;Gamp,” in a sort of walking swoon,</span>
   <span id="f000415">apparently deaf and blind to all mundane matters,</span>
   <span id="f000416">except the refreshments awaiting him ten miles away;</span>
   <span id="f000417">and the benign old pastor disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000418">humming “Hebron” to the creaking accompaniment of the bulgy chaise.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">Laura retired to take her siesta;</span>
   <span id="f000420">Nan made a small carbonaro of herself by sharpening her sister’s crayons,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and Di,</span>
   <span id="f000422">as a sort of penance for past sins,</span>
   <span id="f000423">tried her patience over a piece of knitting,</span>
   <span id="f000424">in which she soon originated a somewhat remarkable pattern,</span>
   <span id="f000425">by dropping every third stitch,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and seaming ad libitum.</span>
   <span id="f000427">If John bad been a gentlemanly creature,</span>
   <span id="f000428">with refined tastes,</span>
   <span id="f000429">he would have elevated his feet and made a nuisance of himself by indulging in a “weed;” but being only an uncultivated youth,</span>
   <span id="f000430">with a rustic regard for pure air and womankind in general,</span>
   <span id="f000431">he kept his head uppermost,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and talked like a man,</span>
   <span id="f000433">instead of smoking like a chimney.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">“It will probably be six months before I sit here again,</span>
   <span id="f000435">tangling your threads and maltreating your needles,</span>
   <span id="f000436">Nan.</span>
   <span id="f000437">How glad you must feel to hear it!” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000438">looking up from a thoughtful examination of the hard-working little citizens of the Industrial Community settled in Nan’s work-basket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000439">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000440">I’m very sorry;</span>
   <span id="f000441">for I like to see you coming and going as you used to,</span>
   <span id="f000442">years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and I miss you very much when you are gone,</span>
   <span id="f000444">John,” answered truthful Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000445">whittling away in a sadly wasteful manner,</span>
   <span id="f000446">as her thoughts flew back to the happy times when a little lad rode a little lass in a big wheelbarrow,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and never spilt his load,</span>
   <span id="f000448">– when two brown heads bobbed daily side by side to school,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and the favorite play was “Babes in the Wood,” with Di for a somewhat peckish robin to cover the small martyrs with any vegetable substance that lay at hand.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Nan sighed,</span>
   <span id="f000451">as she thought of these things,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and John regarded the battered thimble on his finger-tip with increased benignity of aspect as he heard the sound.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“When are you going to make your fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000454">John,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and get out of that disagreeable hardware concern?” demanded Di,</span>
   <span id="f000456">pausing after an exciting “round,” and looking almost as much exhausted as if it had been a veritable pugilistic encounter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">“I intend to make it by plunging still deeper into ’that disagreeable hardware concern;’ for,</span>
   <span id="f000458">next year,</span>
   <span id="f000459">if the world keeps rolling,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and John Lord is alive,</span>
   <span id="f000461">he will become a partner,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and then – and then – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000463">The color sprang up into the young man’s cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000464">his eyes looked out with a sudden shine,</span>
   <span id="f000465">and his hand seemed involuntarily to close,</span>
   <span id="f000466">as if he saw and seized some invisible delight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">“What will happen then,</span>
   <span id="f000468">John?” asked Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000469">with a wondering glance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">“I’ll tell you in a year,</span>
   <span id="f000471">Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000472">wait till then.” and John’s strong hand unclosed,</span>
   <span id="f000473">as if the desired good were not to be his yet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000474">Di looked at him,</span>
   <span id="f000475">with a knitting-needle stuck into her hair,</span>
   <span id="f000476">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000477">like a sarcastic unicorn,</span>
   <span id="f000478">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">“I really thought you had a soul above pots and kettles,</span>
   <span id="f000480">but I see you haven’t;</span>
   <span id="f000481">and I beg your pardon for the injustice I have done you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000482">Not a whit disturbed,</span>
   <span id="f000483">John smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000484">as if at some mighty pleasant fancy of his own,</span>
   <span id="f000485">as he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000486">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“Thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000488">Di;</span>
   <span id="f000489">and as a further proof of the utter depravity of my nature,</span>
   <span id="f000490">let me tell you that I have the greatest possible respect for those articles of ironmongery.</span>
   <span id="f000491">Some of the happiest hours of my life have been spent in their society;</span>
   <span id="f000492">some of my pleasantest associations are connected with them;</span>
   <span id="f000493">some of my best lessons have come to me among them;</span>
   <span id="f000494">and when my fortune is made,</span>
   <span id="f000495">I intend to show my gratitude by taking three flat-irons rampant for my coat of arms.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000496">Nan laughed merrily,</span>
   <span id="f000497">as she looked at the burns on her hand;</span>
   <span id="f000498">but Di elevated the most prominent feature of her brown countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and sighed despondingly,</span>
   <span id="f000500">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">“Dear,</span>
   <span id="f000502">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000503">what a disappointing world this is!</span>
   <span id="f000504">I no sooner build a nice castle in Spain,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and settle a smart young knight therein,</span>
   <span id="f000506">than down it comes about my ears;</span>
   <span id="f000507">and the ungrateful youth,</span>
   <span id="f000508">who might fight dragons,</span>
   <span id="f000509">if he chose,</span>
   <span id="f000510">insists on quenching his energies in a saucepan,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and making a Saint Lawrence of himself by wasting his life on a series of gridirons.</span>
   <span id="f000512">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000513">if I were only a man,</span>
   <span id="f000514">I would do something better than that,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and prove that heroes are not all dead yet.</span>
   <span id="f000516">But,</span>
   <span id="f000517">instead of that,</span>
   <span id="f000518">I’m only a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and must sit rasping my temper with absurdities like this.” And Di wrestled with her knitting as if it were Fate,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and she were paying off the grudge she owed it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">John leaned toward her,</span>
   <span id="f000522">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000523">with a look that made his plain face handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000524">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000525">“Di,</span>
   <span id="f000526">my father began the world as I begin it,</span>
   <span id="f000527">and left it the richer for the useful years he spent here,</span>
   <span id="f000528">– as I hope I may leave it some half-century hence.</span>
   <span id="f000529">His memory makes that dingy shop a pleasant place to me;</span>
   <span id="f000530">for there he made an honest name,</span>
   <span id="f000531">led an honest life and bequeathed to me his reverence for honest work.</span>
   <span id="f000532">That is a sort of hardware,</span>
   <span id="f000533">Di,</span>
   <span id="f000534">that no rust can corrupt,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and which will always prove a better fortune than any your knights can achieve with sword and shield.</span>
   <span id="f000536">I think I am not quite a clod,</span>
   <span id="f000537">or quite without some aspirations above money-getting;</span>
   <span id="f000538">for I sincerely desire that courage that makes daily life heroic by self-denial and cheerfulness of heart;</span>
   <span id="f000539">I am eager to conquer my own rebellious nature,</span>
   <span id="f000540">and earn the confidence of innocent and upright souls;</span>
   <span id="f000541">I have a great ambition to become as good a man and leave as good a memory behind me as old John Lord.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">Di winked violently,</span>
   <span id="f000543">and seamed five times in perfect silence;</span>
   <span id="f000544">but quiet Nan had the gift of knowing when to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and by a timely word saved her sister from a thunder-shower and her stocking from destruction.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“John,</span>
   <span id="f000547">have you seen Philip since you wrote about your last meeting with him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">The question was for John,</span>
   <span id="f000549">but the soothing tone was for Di,</span>
   <span id="f000550">who gratefully accepted it,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and perked up again with speed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000553">and I meant to have told you about it,” answered John,</span>
   <span id="f000554">plunging into the subject at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">“I saw him a few days before I came home,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and found him more disconsolate than ever,</span>
   <span id="f000557">– ’ just ready to go to the Devil,’ as he forcibly expressed himself.</span>
   <span id="f000558">I consoled the poor lad as well as I could,</span>
   <span id="f000559">telling him his wisest plan was to defer his proposed expedition,</span>
   <span id="f000560">and go on as steadily as he had begun,</span>
   <span id="f000561">– thereby proving the injustice of your father’s prediction concerning his want of perseverance,</span>
   <span id="f000562">and the sincerity of his affection.</span>
   <span id="f000563">I told him the change in Laura’s health and spirits was silently working in his favor,</span>
   <span id="f000564">and that a few more months of persistent endeavor would conquer your father’s prejudice against him,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and make him a stronger man for the trial and the pain.</span>
   <span id="f000566">I read him bits about Laura from your own and Di’s letters,</span>
   <span id="f000567">and he went away at last as patient as Jacob ready to serve another ’seven years’ for his beloved Rachel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">“God bless you for it,</span>
   <span id="f000569">John!” cried a fervent voice;</span>
   <span id="f000570">and,</span>
   <span id="f000571">looking up,</span>
   <span id="f000572">they saw the cold,</span>
   <span id="f000573">listless Laura transformed into a tender girl,</span>
   <span id="f000574">all aglow with love and longing,</span>
   <span id="f000575">as she dropped her mask,</span>
   <span id="f000576">and showed a living countenance eloquent with the first passion and softened by the first grief of her life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000577">John rose involuntarily in the presence of an innocent nature whose sorrow needed no interpreter to him.</span>
   <span id="f000578">The girl read sympathy in his brotherly regard,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and found comfort in the friendly voice that asked,</span>
   <span id="f000580">half playfully,</span>
   <span id="f000581">half seriously,</span>
   <span id="f000582">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“Shall I tell him that he is not forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000584">even for an Apollo?</span>
   <span id="f000585">that Laura the artist has not conquered Laura the woman?</span>
   <span id="f000586">and predict that the good daughter will yet prove the happy wife?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">With a gesture full of energy,</span>
   <span id="f000588">Laura tore her Minerva from top to bottom,</span>
   <span id="f000589">while two great tears rolled down the cheeks grown wan with hope deferred.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“Tell him I believe all things,</span>
   <span id="f000591">hope all things,</span>
   <span id="f000592">and that I never can forget.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000593">Nan went to her and held her fast,</span>
   <span id="f000594">leaving the prints of two loving but grimy hands upon her shoulders;</span>
   <span id="f000595">Di looked on approvingly,</span>
   <span id="f000596">for,</span>
   <span id="f000597">though stony-hearted regarding the cause,</span>
   <span id="f000598">she fully appreciated the effect;</span>
   <span id="f000599">and John,</span>
   <span id="f000600">turning to the window,</span>
   <span id="f000601">received the commendations of a robin swaying on an elm-bough with sunshine on its ruddy breast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000602">The clock struck five,</span>
   <span id="f000603">and John declared that he must go;</span>
   <span id="f000604">for,</span>
   <span id="f000605">being an old-fashioned soul,</span>
   <span id="f000606">he fancied that his mother had a better right to his last hour than any younger woman in the land,</span>
   <span id="f000607">– always remembering that “she was a widow,</span>
   <span id="f000608">and he her only son.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000609">Nan ran away to wash her hands,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and came back with the appearance of one who had washed her face also:</span>
   <span id="f000611">and so she had;</span>
   <span id="f000612">but there was a difference in the water.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000613">“Play I’m your father,</span>
   <span id="f000614">girls,</span>
   <span id="f000615">and remember that it will be six months before ’that John’ will trouble you again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">With which preface the young man kissed his former playfellows as heartily as the boy had been wont to do,</span>
   <span id="f000617">when stern parents banished him to distant schools,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and three little maids bemoaned his fate.</span>
   <span id="f000619">But times were changed now;</span>
   <span id="f000620">for Di grew alarmingly rigid during the ceremony;</span>
   <span id="f000621">Laura received the salute like a graceful queen;</span>
   <span id="f000622">and Nan returned it with heart and eyes and tender lips,</span>
   <span id="f000623">making such an improvement on the childish fashion of the thing that John was moved to support his paternal character by softly echoing her father’s words,</span>
   <span id="f000624">– “Take care of yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000625">my little ’Martha.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000626">Then they all streamed after him along the garden-path,</span>
   <span id="f000627">with the endless messages and warnings girls are so prone to give;</span>
   <span id="f000628">and the young man,</span>
   <span id="f000629">with a great softness at his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000630">went away,</span>
   <span id="f000631">as many another John has gone,</span>
   <span id="f000632">feeling better for the companionship of innocent maidenhood,</span>
   <span id="f000633">and stronger to wrestle with temptation,</span>
   <span id="f000634">to wait and hope and work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">“Let’s throw a shoe after him for luck,</span>
   <span id="f000636">as dear old ’Mrs.&#160;Gummage’ did after ’David’ and the ’willin’ Barkis!’ Quick,</span>
   <span id="f000637">Nan!</span>
   <span id="f000638">you always have old shoes on;</span>
   <span id="f000639">toss one,</span>
   <span id="f000640">and shout,</span>
   <span id="f000641">’Good luck!’” cried Di,</span>
   <span id="f000642">with one of her eccentric inspirations.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">Nan tore off her shoe,</span>
   <span id="f000644">and threw it far along the dusty road,</span>
   <span id="f000645">with a sudden longing to become that auspicious article of apparel,</span>
   <span id="f000646">that the omen might not fail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">Looking backward from the hill-top,</span>
   <span id="f000648">John answered the meek shout cheerily,</span>
   <span id="f000649">and took in the group with a lingering glance:</span>
   <span id="f000650">Laura in the shadow of the elms,</span>
   <span id="f000651">Di perched on the fence,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and Nan leaning far over the gate with her hand above her eyes and the sunshine touching her brown hair with gold.</span>
   <span id="f000653">He waved his hat and turned away;</span>
   <span id="f000654">but the music seemed to die out of the blackbird’s song,</span>
   <span id="f000655">and in all the summer landscape his eyes saw nothing but the little figure at the gate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">“Bless and save us!</span>
   <span id="f000657">here’s a flock of people coming;</span>
   <span id="f000658">my hair is in a toss,</span>
   <span id="f000659">and Nan’s without her shoe;</span>
   <span id="f000660">run!</span>
   <span id="f000661">fly,</span>
   <span id="f000662">girls!</span>
   <span id="f000663">or the Philistines will be upon us!” cried Di,</span>
   <span id="f000664">tumbling off her perch in sudden alarm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">Three agitated young ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000666">with flying draperies and countenances of mingled mirth and dismay,</span>
   <span id="f000667">might have been seen precipitating themselves into a respectable mansion with unbecoming haste;</span>
   <span id="f000668">but the squirrels were the only witnesses of this “vision of sudden flight,” and,</span>
   <span id="f000669">being used to ground-and-lofty tumbling,</span>
   <span id="f000670">didn’t mind it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000671">When the pedestrians passed,</span>
   <span id="f000672">the door was decorously closed,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and no one visible but a young man,</span>
   <span id="f000674">who snatched something out of the road,</span>
   <span id="f000675">and marched away again,</span>
   <span id="f000676">whistling with more vigor of tone than accuracy of tune,</span>
   <span id="f000677">“Only that,</span>
   <span id="f000678">and nothing more.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

