<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">A Modern Cinderella<br />or,<br />The Little Old Shoe</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part II<br />How It Was Found</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">Summer ripened into autumn,</span>
   <span id="f000004">and something fairer than</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000005">“Sweet-peas and mignonette<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006">In Annie’s garden grew.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000007">Her nature was the counterpart of the hill-side grove,</span>
   <span id="f000008">where as a child she had read her fairy tales,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and now as a woman turned the first pages of a more wondrous legend still.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Lifted above the many-gabled roof,</span>
   <span id="f000011">yet not cut off from the echo of human speech,</span>
   <span id="f000012">the little grove seemed a green sanctuary,</span>
   <span id="f000013">fringed about with violets,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and full of summer melody and bloom.</span>
   <span id="f000015">Gentle creatures haunted it,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and there was none to make afraid;</span>
   <span id="f000017">wood-pigeons cooed and crickets chirped their shrill roundelays,</span>
   <span id="f000018">anemones and lady-ferns looked up from the moss that kissed the wanderer’s feet.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Warm airs were all afloat,</span>
   <span id="f000020">full of vernal odors for the grateful sense,</span>
   <span id="f000021">silvery birches shimmered like spirits of the wood,</span>
   <span id="f000022">larches gave their green tassels to the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and pines made airy music sweet and solemn,</span>
   <span id="f000024">as they stood looking heavenward through veils of summer sunshine or shrouds of wintry snow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">Nan never felt alone now in this charmed wood;</span>
   <span id="f000026">for when she came into its precincts,</span>
   <span id="f000027">once so full of solitude,</span>
   <span id="f000028">all things seemed to wear one shape,</span>
   <span id="f000029">familiar eyes looked at her from the violets in the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000030">familiar words sounded in the whisper of the leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000031">grew conscious that an unseen influence filled the air with new delights,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and touched earth and sky with a beauty never seen before.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Slowly these Mayflowers budded in her maiden heart,</span>
   <span id="f000034">rosily they bloomed and silently they waited till some lover of such lowly herbs should catch their fresh aroma,</span>
   <span id="f000035">should brush away the fallen leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and lift them to the sun.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">Though the eldest of the three,</span>
   <span id="f000038">she had long been overtopped by the more aspiring maids.</span>
   <span id="f000039">But though she meekly yielded the reins of government,</span>
   <span id="f000040">whenever they chose to drive,</span>
   <span id="f000041">they were soon restored to her again;</span>
   <span id="f000042">for Di fell into literature,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and Laura into love.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Thus engrossed,</span>
   <span id="f000045">these two forgot many duties which even bluestockings and inamoratos are expected to perform,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and slowly all the homely humdrum cares that housewives know became Nan’s daily life,</span>
   <span id="f000047">and she accepted it without a thought of discontent.</span>
   <span id="f000048">Noiseless and cheerful as the sunshine,</span>
   <span id="f000049">she went to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000050">doing the tasks that mothers do,</span>
   <span id="f000051">but without a mother’s sweet reward,</span>
   <span id="f000052">holding fast the numberless slight threads that bind a household tenderly together,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and making each day a beautiful success.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">Di,</span>
   <span id="f000055">being tired of running,</span>
   <span id="f000056">riding,</span>
   <span id="f000057">climbing,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and boating,</span>
   <span id="f000059">decided at last to let her body rest and put her equally active mind through what classical collegians term “a course of sprouts.” Having undertaken to read and know everything,</span>
   <span id="f000060">she devoted herself to the task with great energy,</span>
   <span id="f000061">going from Sue to Swedenborg with perfect impartiality,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and having different authors as children have sundry distempers,</span>
   <span id="f000063">being fractious while they lasted,</span>
   <span id="f000064">but all the better for them when once over.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Carlyle appeared like scarlet-fever,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and raged violently for a time;</span>
   <span id="f000067">for,</span>
   <span id="f000068">being anything but a “passive bucket,” Di became prophetic with Mahomet,</span>
   <span id="f000069">belligerent with Cromwell,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and made the French Revolution a veritable Reign of Terror to her family.</span>
   <span id="f000071">Goethe and Schiller alternated like fever and ague;</span>
   <span id="f000072">Mephistopheles became her hero,</span>
   <span id="f000073">Joan of Arc her model,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and she turned her black eyes red over Egmont and Wallenstein.</span>
   <span id="f000075">A mild attack of Emerson followed,</span>
   <span id="f000076">during which she was lost in a fog,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and her sisters rejoiced inwardly when she emerged informing them that</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000078">“The Sphinx was drowsy,<br /></span>
   <span id="f000079">Her wings were furled.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000080">Poor Di was floundering slowly to her proper place;</span>
   <span id="f000081">but she splashed up a good deal of foam by getting out of her depth,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and rather exhausted herself by trying to drink the ocean dry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000084">after the “midsummer night’s dream” that often comes to girls of seventeen,</span>
   <span id="f000085">woke up to find that youth and love were no match for age and common sense.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Philip had been flying about the world like a thistle-down for five-and-twenty years,</span>
   <span id="f000087">generous-hearted,</span>
   <span id="f000088">frank,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and kind,</span>
   <span id="f000090">but with never an idea of the serious side of life in his handsome head.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Great,</span>
   <span id="f000092">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000093">were the wrath and dismay of the enamored thistle-down,</span>
   <span id="f000094">when the father of his love mildly objected to seeing her begin the world in a balloon with a very tender but very inexperienced aeronaut for a guide.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Laura is too young to ’play house’ yet,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and you are too unstable to assume the part of lord and master,</span>
   <span id="f000097">Philip.</span>
   <span id="f000098">Go and prove that you have prudence,</span>
   <span id="f000099">patience,</span>
   <span id="f000100">energy,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and enterprise,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and I will give you my girl,</span>
   <span id="f000103">– but not before.</span>
   <span id="f000104">I must seem cruel,</span>
   <span id="f000105">that I may be truly kind;</span>
   <span id="f000106">believe this,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and let a little pain lead you to great happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000108">or show you where you would have made a bitter blunder.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">The lovers listened,</span>
   <span id="f000110">owned the truth of the old man’s words,</span>
   <span id="f000111">bewailed their fate,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and yielded,</span>
   <span id="f000113">– Laura for love of her father,</span>
   <span id="f000114">Philip for love of her.</span>
   <span id="f000115">He went away to build a firm foundation for his castle in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000116">and Laura retired into an invisible convent,</span>
   <span id="f000117">where she cast off the world,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and regarded her sympathizing sisters through a grate of superior knowledge and unsharable grief.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Like a devout nun,</span>
   <span id="f000120">she worshipped “St.&#160;Philip,” and firmly believed in his miraculous powers.</span>
   <span id="f000121">She fancied that her woes set her apart from common cares,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and slowly fell into a dreamy state,</span>
   <span id="f000123">professing no interest in any mundane matter,</span>
   <span id="f000124">but the art that first attracted Philip.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Crayons,</span>
   <span id="f000126">bread-crusts,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and gray paper became glorified in Laura’s eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000128">and her one pleasure was to sit pale and still before her easel,</span>
   <span id="f000129">day after day,</span>
   <span id="f000130">filling her portfolios with the faces he had once admired.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Her sisters observed that every Bacchus,</span>
   <span id="f000132">Piping Faun,</span>
   <span id="f000133">or Dying Gladiator bore some likeness to a comely countenance that heathen god or hero never owned;</span>
   <span id="f000134">and seeing this,</span>
   <span id="f000135">they privately rejoiced that she had found such solace for her grief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">Mrs.&#160;Lord’s keen eye had read a certain newly written page in her son’s heart,</span>
   <span id="f000137">– his first chapter of that romance,</span>
   <span id="f000138">begun in paradise,</span>
   <span id="f000139">whose interest never flags,</span>
   <span id="f000140">whose beauty never fades,</span>
   <span id="f000141">whose end can never come till Love lies dead.</span>
   <span id="f000142">With womanly skill she divined the secret,</span>
   <span id="f000143">with motherly discretion she counselled patience,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and her son accepted her advice,</span>
   <span id="f000145">feeling that,</span>
   <span id="f000146">like many a healthful herb,</span>
   <span id="f000147">its worth lay in its bitterness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“Love like a man,</span>
   <span id="f000149">John,</span>
   <span id="f000150">not like a boy,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and learn to know yourself before you take a woman’s happiness into your keeping.</span>
   <span id="f000152">You and Nan have known each other all your lives;</span>
   <span id="f000153">yet,</span>
   <span id="f000154">till this last visit,</span>
   <span id="f000155">you never thought you loved her more than any other childish friend.</span>
   <span id="f000156">It is too soon to say the words so often spoken hastily,</span>
   <span id="f000157">– so hard to be recalled.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Go back to your work,</span>
   <span id="f000159">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000160">for another year;</span>
   <span id="f000161">think of Nan in the light of this new hope:</span>
   <span id="f000162">compare her with comelier,</span>
   <span id="f000163">gayer girls;</span>
   <span id="f000164">and by absence prove the truth of your belief.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000166">if distance only makes her dearer,</span>
   <span id="f000167">if time only strengthens your affection,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and no doubt of your own worthiness disturbs you,</span>
   <span id="f000169">come back and offer her what any woman should be glad to take,</span>
   <span id="f000170">– my boy’s true heart.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">John smiled at the motherly pride of her words,</span>
   <span id="f000172">but answered with a wistful look.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“It seems very long to wait,</span>
   <span id="f000174">mother.</span>
   <span id="f000175">If I could just ask her for a word of hope,</span>
   <span id="f000176">I could be very patient then.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000178">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000179">better bear one year of impatience now than a lifetime of regret hereafter.</span>
   <span id="f000180">Nan is happy;</span>
   <span id="f000181">why disturb her by a word which will bring the tender cares and troubles that come soon enough to such conscientious creatures as herself?</span>
   <span id="f000182">If she loves you,</span>
   <span id="f000183">time will prove it;</span>
   <span id="f000184">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000185">let the new affection spring and ripen as your early friendship has done,</span>
   <span id="f000186">and it will be all the stronger for a summer’s growth.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Philip was rash,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and has to bear his trial now,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and Laura shares it with him.</span>
   <span id="f000190">Be more generous,</span>
   <span id="f000191">John;</span>
   <span id="f000192">make your trial,</span>
   <span id="f000193">bear your doubts alone,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and give Nan the happiness without the pain.</span>
   <span id="f000195">Promise me this,</span>
   <span id="f000196">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000197">– promise me to hope and wait.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">The young man’s eye kindled,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and in his heart there rose a better chivalry,</span>
   <span id="f000200">a truer valor,</span>
   <span id="f000201">than any Di’s knights had ever known.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“I’ll try,</span>
   <span id="f000203">mother,” was all he said;</span>
   <span id="f000204">but she was satisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000205">for John seldom tried in vain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000207">girls,</span>
   <span id="f000208">how splendid you are!</span>
   <span id="f000209">It does my heart good to see my handsome sisters in their best array,” cried Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000210">one mild October night,</span>
   <span id="f000211">as she put the last touches to certain airy raiment fashioned by her own skilful hands,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and then fell back to survey the grand effect.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“Di and Laura were preparing to assist at an event of the season,” and Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000214">with her own locks fallen on her shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000215">for want of sundry combs promoted to her sisters’ heads and her dress in unwonted disorder,</span>
   <span id="f000216">for lack of the many pins extracted in exciting crises of the toilet,</span>
   <span id="f000217">hovered like an affectionate bee about two very full-blown flowers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">“Laura looks like a cool Undine,</span>
   <span id="f000219">with the ivy-wreaths in her shining hair;</span>
   <span id="f000220">and Di has illuminated herself to such an extent with those scarlet leaves that I don’t know what great creature she resembles most,” said Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000221">beaming with sisterly admiration.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“Like Juno,</span>
   <span id="f000223">Zenobia,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and Cleopatra simmered into one,</span>
   <span id="f000225">with a touch of Xantippe by way of spice.</span>
   <span id="f000226">But,</span>
   <span id="f000227">to my eye,</span>
   <span id="f000228">the finest woman of the three is the dishevelled young person embracing the bed-post:</span>
   <span id="f000229">for she stays at home herself,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and gives her time and taste to making homely people fine,</span>
   <span id="f000231">– which is a waste of good material,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and an imposition on the public.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000233">As Di spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000234">both the fashion-plates looked affectionately at the gray-gowned figure;</span>
   <span id="f000235">but,</span>
   <span id="f000236">being works of art,</span>
   <span id="f000237">they were obliged to nip their feelings in the bud,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and reserve their caresses till they returned to common life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“Put on your bonnet,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and we’ll leave you at Mrs.&#160;Lord’s on our way.</span>
   <span id="f000241">It will do you good,</span>
   <span id="f000242">Nan;</span>
   <span id="f000243">and perhaps there may be news from John,” added Di,</span>
   <span id="f000244">as she bore down upon the door like a man-of-war under full sail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000245">“Or from Philip,” sighed Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000246">with a wistful look.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">Whereupon Nan persuaded herself that her strong inclination to sit down was owing to want of exercise,</span>
   <span id="f000248">and the heaviness of her eyelids a freak of imagination;</span>
   <span id="f000249">so,</span>
   <span id="f000250">speedily smoothing her ruffled plumage,</span>
   <span id="f000251">she ran down to tell her father of the new arrangement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“Go,</span>
   <span id="f000253">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000254">by all means.</span>
   <span id="f000255">I shall be writing;</span>
   <span id="f000256">and you will be lonely if you stay.</span>
   <span id="f000257">But I must see my girls;</span>
   <span id="f000258">for I caught glimpses of certain surprising phantoms flitting by the door.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">Nan led the way,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and the two pyramids revolved before him with the rapidity of lay-figures,</span>
   <span id="f000261">much to the good man’s edification:</span>
   <span id="f000262">for with his fatherly pleasure there was mingled much mild wonderment at the amplitude of array.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000264">I see my geese are really swans,</span>
   <span id="f000265">though there is such a cloud between us that I feel a long way off,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and hardly know them.</span>
   <span id="f000267">But this little daughter is always available,</span>
   <span id="f000268">always my ’cricket on the hearth.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">As he spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000270">her father drew Nan closer,</span>
   <span id="f000271">kissed her tranquil face,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and smiled content.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000274">if ever I see picters,</span>
   <span id="f000275">I see ’em now,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and I declare to goodness it’s as interestin’ as playactin’,</span>
   <span id="f000277">every bit.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Miss Di with all them boughs in her head,</span>
   <span id="f000279">looks like the Queen of Sheby,</span>
   <span id="f000280">when she went a-visitin’ What’s-his-name;</span>
   <span id="f000281">and if Miss Laura ain’t as sweet as a lally-barster figger,</span>
   <span id="f000282">I should like to know what is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">In her enthusiasm,</span>
   <span id="f000284">Sally gambolled about the girls,</span>
   <span id="f000285">flourishing her milk-pan like a modern Miriam about to sound her timbrel for excess of joy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">Laughing merrily,</span>
   <span id="f000287">the two Mont Blancs bestowed themselves in the family ark,</span>
   <span id="f000288">Nan hopped up beside Patrick,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and Solon,</span>
   <span id="f000290">roused from his lawful slumbers,</span>
   <span id="f000291">morosely trundled them away.</span>
   <span id="f000292">But,</span>
   <span id="f000293">looking backward with a last “Good-night!” Nan saw her father still standing at the door with smiling countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and the moonlight falling like a benediction on his silver hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">“Betsey shall go up the hill with you,</span>
   <span id="f000296">my dear,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and here’s a basket of eggs for your father.</span>
   <span id="f000298">Give him my love,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and be sure you let me know the next time he is poorly,” Mrs.&#160;Lord said,</span>
   <span id="f000300">when her guest rose to depart,</span>
   <span id="f000301">after an hour of pleasant chat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">But Nan never got the gift;</span>
   <span id="f000303">for,</span>
   <span id="f000304">to her great dismay,</span>
   <span id="f000305">her hostess dropped the basket with a crash,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and flew across the room to meet a tall shape pausing in the shadow of the door.</span>
   <span id="f000307">There was no need to ask who the new-comer was;</span>
   <span id="f000308">for,</span>
   <span id="f000309">even in his mother’s arms,</span>
   <span id="f000310">John looked over her shoulder with an eager nod to Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000311">who stood among the ruins with never a sign of weariness in her face,</span>
   <span id="f000312">nor the memory of a care at her heart.</span>
   <span id="f000313">– for they all went out when John came in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Now tell us how and why and when you came.</span>
   <span id="f000315">Take off your coat,</span>
   <span id="f000316">my dear!</span>
   <span id="f000317">And here are the old slippers.</span>
   <span id="f000318">Why didn’t you let us know you were coming so soon?</span>
   <span id="f000319">How have you been?</span>
   <span id="f000320">and what makes you so late to-night?</span>
   <span id="f000321">Betsey,</span>
   <span id="f000322">you needn’t put on your bonnet.</span>
   <span id="f000323">And – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000324">my dear boy,</span>
   <span id="f000325">have you been to supper yet?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">Mrs.&#160;Lord was a quiet soul,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and her flood of questions was purred softly in her son’s ear;</span>
   <span id="f000328">for,</span>
   <span id="f000329">being a woman,</span>
   <span id="f000330">she must talk,</span>
   <span id="f000331">and,</span>
   <span id="f000332">being a mother,</span>
   <span id="f000333">must pet the one delight of her life,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and make a little festival when the lord of the manor came home.</span>
   <span id="f000335">A whole drove of fatted calves were metaphorically killed,</span>
   <span id="f000336">and a banquet appeared with speed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">John was not one of those romantic heroes who can go through three volumes of hair-breadth escapes without the faintest hint of that blessed institution,</span>
   <span id="f000338">dinner;</span>
   <span id="f000339">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000340">like “Lady Letherbridge,” he partook,</span>
   <span id="f000341">copiously of everything,</span>
   <span id="f000342">while the two women beamed over each mouthful with an interest that enhanced its flavor,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and urged upon him cold meat and cheese,</span>
   <span id="f000344">pickles and pie,</span>
   <span id="f000345">as if dyspepsia and nightmare were among the lost arts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">Then he opened his budget of news and fed them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">“I was coming next month,</span>
   <span id="f000348">according to custom;</span>
   <span id="f000349">but Philip fell upon and so tempted me,</span>
   <span id="f000350">that I was driven to sacrifice myself to the cause of friendship,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and up we came to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000352">He would not let me come here till we had seen your father,</span>
   <span id="f000353">Nan;</span>
   <span id="f000354">for the poor lad was pining for Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and hoped his good behavior for the past year would satisfy his judge and secure his recall.</span>
   <span id="f000356">We had a fine talk with your father;</span>
   <span id="f000357">and,</span>
   <span id="f000358">upon my life,</span>
   <span id="f000359">Philip seemed to have received the gift of tongues,</span>
   <span id="f000360">for he made a most eloquent plea,</span>
   <span id="f000361">which I’ve stored away for future use,</span>
   <span id="f000362">I assure you.</span>
   <span id="f000363">The dear old gentleman was very kind,</span>
   <span id="f000364">told Phil he was satisfied with the success of his probation,</span>
   <span id="f000365">that he should see Laura when he liked,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and,</span>
   <span id="f000367">if all went well,</span>
   <span id="f000368">should receive his reward in the spring.</span>
   <span id="f000369">It must be a delightful sensation to know you have made a fellow-creature as happy as those words made Phil to-night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">John paused,</span>
   <span id="f000371">and looked musingly at the matronly tea-pot,</span>
   <span id="f000372">as if he saw a wondrous future in its shine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">Nan twinkled off the drops that rose at the thought of Laura’s joy,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000375">with grateful warmth,</span>
   <span id="f000376">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">“You say nothing of your own share in the making of that happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000378">John;</span>
   <span id="f000379">but we know it,</span>
   <span id="f000380">for Philip has told Laura in his letters all that you have been to him,</span>
   <span id="f000381">and I am sure there was other eloquence beside his own before father granted all you say he has.</span>
   <span id="f000382">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000383">John,</span>
   <span id="f000384">I thank you very much for this!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">Mrs.&#160;Lord beamed a whole midsummer of delight upon her son,</span>
   <span id="f000386">as she saw the pleasure these words gave him,</span>
   <span id="f000387">though he answered simply,</span>
   <span id="f000388">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">“I only tried to be a brother to him,</span>
   <span id="f000390">Nan;</span>
   <span id="f000391">for he has been most kind to me.</span>
   <span id="f000392">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000393">I said my little say to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000394">and gave my testimony in behalf of the prisoner at the bar;</span>
   <span id="f000395">a most merciful judge pronounced his sentence,</span>
   <span id="f000396">and he rushed straight to Mrs.&#160;Leigh’s to tell Laura the blissful news.</span>
   <span id="f000397">Just imagine the scene when he appears,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and how Di will open her wicked eyes and enjoy the spectacle of the dishevelled lover,</span>
   <span id="f000399">the bride-elect’s tears,</span>
   <span id="f000400">the stir,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and the romance of the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000402">She’ll cry over it to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000403">and caricature it to-morrow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">And John led the laugh at the picture he had conjured up,</span>
   <span id="f000405">to turn the thoughts of Di’s dangerous sister from himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">At ten Nan retired into the depths of her old bonnet with a far different face from the one she brought out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and John,</span>
   <span id="f000408">resuming his hat,</span>
   <span id="f000409">mounted guard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“Don’t stay late,</span>
   <span id="f000411">remember,</span>
   <span id="f000412">John!” And in Mrs.&#160;Lord’s voice there was a warning tone that her son interpreted aright.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">“I’ll not forget,</span>
   <span id="f000414">mother.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">And he kept his word;</span>
   <span id="f000416">for though Philip’s happiness floated temptingly before him,</span>
   <span id="f000417">and the little figure at his side had never seemed so dear,</span>
   <span id="f000418">he ignored the bland winds,</span>
   <span id="f000419">the tender night,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and set a seal upon his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000421">thinking manfully within himself.</span>
   <span id="f000422">“I see many signs of promise in her happy face;</span>
   <span id="f000423">but I will wait and hope a little longer for her sake.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“Where is father,</span>
   <span id="f000425">Sally?” asked Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000426">as that functionary appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000427">blinking owlishly,</span>
   <span id="f000428">but utterly repudiating the idea of sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">“He went down the garding,</span>
   <span id="f000430">miss,</span>
   <span id="f000431">when the gentlemen cleared,</span>
   <span id="f000432">bein’ a little flustered by the goin’s on.</span>
   <span id="f000433">Shall I fetch him in?” asked Sally,</span>
   <span id="f000434">as irreverently as if her master were a bag of meal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000436">we will go ourselves.” And slowly the two paced down the leaf-strewn walk.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">Fields of yellow grain were waving on the hill-side,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and sere corn blades rustled in the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000439">from the orchard came the scent of ripening fruit,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and all the garden-plots lay ready to yield up their humble offerings to their master’s hand.</span>
   <span id="f000441">But in the silence of the night a greater Reaper had passed by,</span>
   <span id="f000442">gathering in the harvest of a righteous life,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and leaving only tender memories for the gleaners who had come so late.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">The old man sat in the shadow of the tree his own hands planted;</span>
   <span id="f000445">its fruit boughs shone ruddily,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and its leaves still whispered the low lullaby that hushed him to his rest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“How fast he sleeps!</span>
   <span id="f000448">Poor father!</span>
   <span id="f000449">I should have come before and made it pleasant for him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">As she spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000451">Nan lifted up the head bent down upon his breast,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and kissed his pallid cheek.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000454">John,</span>
   <span id="f000455">this is not sleep.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000457">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000458">the happiest he will ever know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">For a moment the shadows flickered over three white faces and the silence deepened solemnly.</span>
   <span id="f000460">Then John reverently bore the pale shape in,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and Nan dropped down beside it,</span>
   <span id="f000462">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000463">with a rain of grateful tears,</span>
   <span id="f000464">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“He kissed me when I went,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and said a last good-night!’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000467">For an hour steps went to and fro about her,</span>
   <span id="f000468">many voices whispered near her,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and skilful hands touched the beloved clay she held so fast;</span>
   <span id="f000470">but one by one the busy feet passed out,</span>
   <span id="f000471">one by one the voices died away,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and human skill proved vain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000473">Then Mrs.&#160;Lord drew the orphan to the shelter of her arms,</span>
   <span id="f000474">soothing her with the mute solace of that motherly embrace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">“Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000476">Nan!</span>
   <span id="f000477">here’s Philip!</span>
   <span id="f000478">come and see!” The happy call re-echoed through the house,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and Nan sprang up as if her time for grief were past.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">“I must tell them.</span>
   <span id="f000481">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000482">my poor girls,</span>
   <span id="f000483">how will they bear it?</span>
   <span id="f000484">– they have known so little sorrow!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">But there was no need for her to speak;</span>
   <span id="f000486">other lips had spared her the hard task.</span>
   <span id="f000487">For,</span>
   <span id="f000488">as she stirred to meet them,</span>
   <span id="f000489">a sharp cry rent the air,</span>
   <span id="f000490">steps rang upon the stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and two wild-eyed creatures came into the hush of that familiar room,</span>
   <span id="f000492">for the first time meeting with no welcome from their father’s voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000493">With one impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000494">Di and Laura fled to Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and the sisters clung together in a silent embrace,</span>
   <span id="f000496">more eloquent than words.</span>
   <span id="f000497">John took his mother by the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and led her from the room,</span>
   <span id="f000499">closing the door upon the sacredness of grief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000500">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000501">we are poorer than we thought;</span>
   <span id="f000502">but when everything is settled,</span>
   <span id="f000503">we shall get on very well.</span>
   <span id="f000504">We can let a part of this great house,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and live quietly together until spring;</span>
   <span id="f000506">then Laura will be married,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and Di can go on their travels with them,</span>
   <span id="f000508">as Philip wishes her to do.</span>
   <span id="f000509">We shall be cared for;</span>
   <span id="f000510">so never fear for us,</span>
   <span id="f000511">John.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">Nan said this,</span>
   <span id="f000513">as her friend parted from her a week later,</span>
   <span id="f000514">after the saddest holiday he had ever known.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">“And what becomes of you,</span>
   <span id="f000516">Nan?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000517">watching the patient eyes that smiled when others would have wept.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000518">“I shall stay in the dear old house;</span>
   <span id="f000519">for no other place would seem like home to me.</span>
   <span id="f000520">I shall find some little child to love and care for,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and be quite happy till the girls come back and want me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">John nodded wisely,</span>
   <span id="f000523">as he listened,</span>
   <span id="f000524">and went away prophesying within himself,</span>
   <span id="f000525">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“She shall find something more than a child to love;</span>
   <span id="f000527">and,</span>
   <span id="f000528">God willing,</span>
   <span id="f000529">shall be very happy till the girls come home and – cannot have her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">Nan’s plan was carried into effect.</span>
   <span id="f000531">Slowly the divided waters closed again,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and the three fell back into their old life.</span>
   <span id="f000533">But the touch of sorrow drew them closer;</span>
   <span id="f000534">and,</span>
   <span id="f000535">though invisible,</span>
   <span id="f000536">a beloved presence still moved among them,</span>
   <span id="f000537">a familiar voice still spoke to them in the silence of their softened hearts.</span>
   <span id="f000538">Thus the soil was made ready,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and in the depth of winter the good seed was sown,</span>
   <span id="f000540">was watered with many tears,</span>
   <span id="f000541">and soon sprang up green with a promise of a harvest for their after years.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">Di and Laura consoled themselves with their favorite employments,</span>
   <span id="f000543">unconscious that Nan was growing paler,</span>
   <span id="f000544">thinner,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and more silent,</span>
   <span id="f000546">as the weeks went by,</span>
   <span id="f000547">till one day she dropped quietly before them,</span>
   <span id="f000548">and it suddenly became manifest that she was utterly worn out with many cares and the secret suffering of a tender heart bereft of the paternal love which had been its strength and stay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“I’m only tired,</span>
   <span id="f000550">dear girls.</span>
   <span id="f000551">Don’t be troubled,</span>
   <span id="f000552">for I shall be up to-morrow,” she said cheerily,</span>
   <span id="f000553">as she looked into the anxious faces bending over her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000554">But the weariness was of many months’ growth,</span>
   <span id="f000555">and it was weeks before that “to-morrow” came.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000556">Laura installed herself as nurse,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and her devotion was repaid four-fold;</span>
   <span id="f000558">for,</span>
   <span id="f000559">sitting at her sister’s bedside,</span>
   <span id="f000560">she learned a finer art than that she had left.</span>
   <span id="f000561">Her eye grew clear to see the beauty of a self-denying life,</span>
   <span id="f000562">and in the depths of Nan’s meek nature she found the strong,</span>
   <span id="f000563">sweet virtues that made her what she was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000564">Then remembering that these womanly attributes were a bride’s best dowry,</span>
   <span id="f000565">Laura gave herself to their attainment,</span>
   <span id="f000566">that she might become to another household the blessing Nan had been to her own;</span>
   <span id="f000567">and turning from the worship of the goddess Beauty,</span>
   <span id="f000568">she gave her hand to that humbler and more human teacher,</span>
   <span id="f000569">Duty,</span>
   <span id="f000570">– learning her lessons with a willing heart,</span>
   <span id="f000571">for Philip’s sake.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">Di corked her inkstand,</span>
   <span id="f000573">locked her bookcase,</span>
   <span id="f000574">and went at housework as if it were a five-barred gate;</span>
   <span id="f000575">of course she missed the leap,</span>
   <span id="f000576">but scrambled bravely through,</span>
   <span id="f000577">and appeared much sobered by the exercise.</span>
   <span id="f000578">Sally had departed to sit under a vine and fig-tree of her own,</span>
   <span id="f000579">so Di had undisputed sway;</span>
   <span id="f000580">but if dish-pans and dusters had tongues,</span>
   <span id="f000581">direful would have been the history of that crusade against frost and fire,</span>
   <span id="f000582">indolence and inexperience.</span>
   <span id="f000583">But they were dumb,</span>
   <span id="f000584">and Di scorned to complain,</span>
   <span id="f000585">though her struggles were pathetic to behold,</span>
   <span id="f000586">and her sisters went through a series of messes equal to a course of “Prince Benreddin’s” peppery tarts.</span>
   <span id="f000587">Reality turned Romance out of doors;</span>
   <span id="f000588">for,</span>
   <span id="f000589">unlike her favorite heroines in satin and tears,</span>
   <span id="f000590">or helmet and shield,</span>
   <span id="f000591">Di met her fate in a big checked apron and dust-cap,</span>
   <span id="f000592">wonderful to see;</span>
   <span id="f000593">yet she wielded her broom as stoutly as “Moll Pitcher” shouldered her gun,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and marched to her daily martyrdom in the kitchen with as heroic a heart as the “Maid of Orleans” took to her stake.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">Mind won the victory over matter in the end,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and Di was better all her days for the tribulations and the triumphs of that time;</span>
   <span id="f000597">for she drowned her idle fancies in her wash-tub,</span>
   <span id="f000598">made burnt-offerings of selfishness and pride,</span>
   <span id="f000599">and learned the worth of self-denial,</span>
   <span id="f000600">as she sang with happy voice among the pots and kettles of her conquered realm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000601">Nan thought of John,</span>
   <span id="f000602">and in the stillness of her sleepless nights prayed Heaven to keep him safe,</span>
   <span id="f000603">and make her worthy to receive and strong enough to bear the blessedness or pain of love.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000604">Snow fell without,</span>
   <span id="f000605">and keen winds howled among the leafless elms,</span>
   <span id="f000606">but “herbs of grace” were blooming beautifully in the sunshine of sincere endeavor,</span>
   <span id="f000607">and this dreariest season proved the most fruitful of the year;</span>
   <span id="f000608">for love taught Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000609">labor chastened Di,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and patience fitted Nan for the blessing of her life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000611">Nature,</span>
   <span id="f000612">that stillest,</span>
   <span id="f000613">yet most diligent of housewives,</span>
   <span id="f000614">began at last that “spring cleaning” which she makes so pleasant that none find the heart to grumble as they do when other matrons set their premises a-dust.</span>
   <span id="f000615">Her hand-maids,</span>
   <span id="f000616">wind and rain and sun,</span>
   <span id="f000617">swept,</span>
   <span id="f000618">washed,</span>
   <span id="f000619">and garnished busily,</span>
   <span id="f000620">green carpets were unrolled,</span>
   <span id="f000621">apple-boughs were hung with draperies of bloom,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and dandelions,</span>
   <span id="f000623">pet nurslings of the year,</span>
   <span id="f000624">came out to play upon the sward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">From the South returned that opera troupe whose manager is never in despair,</span>
   <span id="f000626">whose tenor never sulks,</span>
   <span id="f000627">whose prima donna never fails,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and in the orchard bona fide matinees were held,</span>
   <span id="f000629">to which buttercups and clovers crowded in their prettiest spring hats,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and verdant young blades twinkled their dewy lorgnettes,</span>
   <span id="f000631">as they bowed and made way for the floral belles.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000632">May was bidding June good-morrow,</span>
   <span id="f000633">and the roses were just dreaming that it was almost time to wake,</span>
   <span id="f000634">when John came again into the quiet room which now seemed the Eden that contained his Eve.</span>
   <span id="f000635">Of course there was a jubilee;</span>
   <span id="f000636">but something seemed to have befallen the whole group,</span>
   <span id="f000637">for never had they appeared in such odd frames of mind.</span>
   <span id="f000638">John was restless,</span>
   <span id="f000639">and wore an excited look,</span>
   <span id="f000640">most unlike his usual serenity of aspect.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">Nan the cheerful had fallen into a well of silence and was not to be extracted by any Hydraulic power,</span>
   <span id="f000642">though she smiled like the June sky over her head.</span>
   <span id="f000643">Di’s peculiarities were out in full force,</span>
   <span id="f000644">and she looked as if she would go off like a torpedo at a touch;</span>
   <span id="f000645">but through all her moods there was a half-triumphant,</span>
   <span id="f000646">half-remorseful expression in the glance she fixed on John.</span>
   <span id="f000647">And Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000648">once so silent,</span>
   <span id="f000649">now sang like a blackbird,</span>
   <span id="f000650">as she flitted to and fro;</span>
   <span id="f000651">but her fitful song was always,</span>
   <span id="f000652">“Philip,</span>
   <span id="f000653">my king.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000654">John felt that there had come a change upon the three,</span>
   <span id="f000655">and silently divined whose unconscious influence had wrought the miracle.</span>
   <span id="f000656">The embargo was off his tongue,</span>
   <span id="f000657">and he was in a fever to ask that question which brings a flutter to the stoutest heart;</span>
   <span id="f000658">but though the “man” had come,</span>
   <span id="f000659">the “hour” had not.</span>
   <span id="f000660">So,</span>
   <span id="f000661">by way of steadying his nerves,</span>
   <span id="f000662">he paced the room,</span>
   <span id="f000663">pausing often to take notes of his companions,</span>
   <span id="f000664">and each pause seemed to increase his wonder and content.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">He looked at Nan.</span>
   <span id="f000666">She was in her usual place,</span>
   <span id="f000667">the rigid little chair she loved,</span>
   <span id="f000668">because it once was large enough to hold a curly-headed playmate and herself.</span>
   <span id="f000669">The old work-basket was at her side,</span>
   <span id="f000670">and the battered thimble busily at work;</span>
   <span id="f000671">but her lips wore a smile they had never worn before,</span>
   <span id="f000672">the color of the unblown roses touched her cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and her downcast eyes were full of light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">He looked at Di.</span>
   <span id="f000675">The inevitable book was on her knee,</span>
   <span id="f000676">but its leaves were uncut;</span>
   <span id="f000677">the strong-minded knob of hair still asserted its supremacy aloft upon her head,</span>
   <span id="f000678">and the triangular jacket still adorned her shoulders in defiance of all fashions,</span>
   <span id="f000679">past,</span>
   <span id="f000680">present,</span>
   <span id="f000681">or to come;</span>
   <span id="f000682">but the expression of her brown countenance had grown softer,</span>
   <span id="f000683">her tongue had found a curb,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and in her hand lay a card with “Potts,</span>
   <span id="f000685">Kettel &amp;</span>
   <span id="f000686">Co.” inscribed thereon,</span>
   <span id="f000687">which she regarded with never a scornful word for the “Co.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">He looked at Laura.</span>
   <span id="f000689">She was before her easel as of old;</span>
   <span id="f000690">but the pale nun had given place to a blooming girl,</span>
   <span id="f000691">who sang at her work,</span>
   <span id="f000692">which was no prim Pallas,</span>
   <span id="f000693">but a Clytie turning her human face to meet the sun.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000694">“John,</span>
   <span id="f000695">what are you thinking of?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">He stirred as if Di’s voice had disturbed his fancy at some pleasant pastime,</span>
   <span id="f000697">but answered with his usual sincerity,</span>
   <span id="f000698">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000699">“I was thinking of a certain dear old fairy tale called ’Cinderella.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000700">“Oh!” said Di;</span>
   <span id="f000701">and her “Oh” was a most impressive monosyllable.</span>
   <span id="f000702">“I see the meaning of your smile now;</span>
   <span id="f000703">and though the application of the story is not very complimentary to all parties concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000704">it is very just and very true.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000705">She paused a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000706">then went on with softened voice and earnest mien:</span>
   <span id="f000707">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000708">“You think I am a blind and selfish creature.</span>
   <span id="f000709">So I am,</span>
   <span id="f000710">but not so blind and selfish as I have been;</span>
   <span id="f000711">for many tears have cleared my eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000712">and much sincere regret has made me humbler than I was.</span>
   <span id="f000713">I have found a better book than any father’s library can give me,</span>
   <span id="f000714">and I have read it with a love and admiration that grew stronger as I turned the leaves.</span>
   <span id="f000715">Henceforth I take it for my guide and gospel,</span>
   <span id="f000716">and,</span>
   <span id="f000717">looking back upon the selfish and neglectful past,</span>
   <span id="f000718">can only say,</span>
   <span id="f000719">Heaven bless your dear heart,</span>
   <span id="f000720">Nan!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">Laura echoed Di’s last words;</span>
   <span id="f000722">for,</span>
   <span id="f000723">with eyes as full of tenderness,</span>
   <span id="f000724">she looked down upon the sister she had lately learned to know,</span>
   <span id="f000725">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000726">warmly,</span>
   <span id="f000727">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000729">’Heaven bless your dear heart,</span>
   <span id="f000730">Nan!’ I never can forget all you have been to me;</span>
   <span id="f000731">and when I am far away with Philip,</span>
   <span id="f000732">there will always be one countenance more beautiful to me than any pictured face I may discover,</span>
   <span id="f000733">there will be one place more dear to me than Rome.</span>
   <span id="f000734">The face will be yours,</span>
   <span id="f000735">Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000736">always so patient,</span>
   <span id="f000737">always so serene;</span>
   <span id="f000738">and the dearer place will be this home of ours,</span>
   <span id="f000739">which you have made so pleasant to me all these years by kindnesses as numberless and noiseless as the drops of dew.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000740">“Dear girls,</span>
   <span id="f000741">what have I ever done,</span>
   <span id="f000742">that you should love me so?” cried Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000743">with happy wonderment,</span>
   <span id="f000744">as the tall heads,</span>
   <span id="f000745">black and golden,</span>
   <span id="f000746">bent to meet the lowly brown one,</span>
   <span id="f000747">and her sisters’ mute lips answered her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000748">Then Laura looked up,</span>
   <span id="f000749">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000750">playfully,</span>
   <span id="f000751">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“Here are the good and wicked sisters;-where shall we find the Prince?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000753">“There!” cried Di,</span>
   <span id="f000754">pointing to John;</span>
   <span id="f000755">and then her secret went off like a rocket;</span>
   <span id="f000756">for,</span>
   <span id="f000757">with her old impetuosity,</span>
   <span id="f000758">she said,</span>
   <span id="f000759">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000760">“I have found you out,</span>
   <span id="f000761">John,</span>
   <span id="f000762">and am ashamed to look you in the face,</span>
   <span id="f000763">remembering the past.</span>
   <span id="f000764">Girls,</span>
   <span id="f000765">you know when father died,</span>
   <span id="f000766">John sent us money,</span>
   <span id="f000767">which he said Mr.&#160;Owen had long owed us and had paid at last?</span>
   <span id="f000768">It was a kind lie,</span>
   <span id="f000769">John,</span>
   <span id="f000770">and a generous thing to do;</span>
   <span id="f000771">for we needed it,</span>
   <span id="f000772">but never would have taken it as a gift.</span>
   <span id="f000773">I know you meant that we should never find this out;</span>
   <span id="f000774">but yesterday I met Mr.&#160;Owen returning from the West,</span>
   <span id="f000775">and when I thanked him for a piece of justice we had not expected of him,</span>
   <span id="f000776">he gruffly told me he had never paid the debt,</span>
   <span id="f000777">never meant to pay it,</span>
   <span id="f000778">for it was outlawed,</span>
   <span id="f000779">and we could not claim a farthing.</span>
   <span id="f000780">John,</span>
   <span id="f000781">I have laughed at you,</span>
   <span id="f000782">thought you stupid,</span>
   <span id="f000783">treated you unkindly;</span>
   <span id="f000784">but I know you now,</span>
   <span id="f000785">and never shall forget the lesson you have taught me.</span>
   <span id="f000786">I am proud as Lucifer,</span>
   <span id="f000787">but I ask you to forgive me,</span>
   <span id="f000788">and I seal my real repentance so – and so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000789">With tragic countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000790">Di rushed across the room,</span>
   <span id="f000791">threw both arms about the astonished young man’s neck and dropped an energetic kiss upon his cheek.</span>
   <span id="f000792">There was a momentary silence;</span>
   <span id="f000793">for Di finally illustrated her strong-minded theories by crying like the weakest of her sex.</span>
   <span id="f000794">Laura,</span>
   <span id="f000795">with “the ruling passion strong in death,” still tried to draw,</span>
   <span id="f000796">but broke her pet crayon,</span>
   <span id="f000797">and endowed her Clytie with a supplementary orb,</span>
   <span id="f000798">owing to the dimness of her own.</span>
   <span id="f000799">And Nan sat with drooping eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000800">that shone upon her work,</span>
   <span id="f000801">thinking with tender pride,</span>
   <span id="f000802">– “They know him now,</span>
   <span id="f000803">and love him for his generous heart.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">Di spoke first,</span>
   <span id="f000805">rallying to her colors,</span>
   <span id="f000806">though a little daunted by her loss of self-control.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000807">“Don’t laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000808">John,</span>
   <span id="f000809">– I couldn’t help it;</span>
   <span id="f000810">and don’t think I’m not sincere,</span>
   <span id="f000811">for I am,</span>
   <span id="f000812">– I am;</span>
   <span id="f000813">and I will prove it by growing good enough to be your friend.</span>
   <span id="f000814">That debt must all be paid,</span>
   <span id="f000815">and I shall do it;</span>
   <span id="f000816">for I’ll turn my books and pen to some account,</span>
   <span id="f000817">and write stories full of clear old souls like you and Nan;</span>
   <span id="f000818">and some one,</span>
   <span id="f000819">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000820">will like and buy them,</span>
   <span id="f000821">though they are not ’works of Shakespeare.’ I’ve thought of this before,</span>
   <span id="f000822">have felt I had the power in me;</span>
   <span id="f000823">now I have the motive,</span>
   <span id="f000824">and now I’ll do it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000825">If Di had Proposed to translate the Koran,</span>
   <span id="f000826">or build a new Saint Paul’s,</span>
   <span id="f000827">there would have been many chances of success;</span>
   <span id="f000828">for,</span>
   <span id="f000829">once moved,</span>
   <span id="f000830">her will,</span>
   <span id="f000831">like a battering-ram,</span>
   <span id="f000832">would knock down the obstacles her wits could not surmount.</span>
   <span id="f000833">John believed in her most heartily,</span>
   <span id="f000834">and showed it,</span>
   <span id="f000835">as he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000836">looking into her resolute face,</span>
   <span id="f000837">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000838">“I know you will,</span>
   <span id="f000839">and yet make us very proud of our ’Chaos,’ Di.</span>
   <span id="f000840">Let the money lie,</span>
   <span id="f000841">and when you have a fortune,</span>
   <span id="f000842">I’ll claim it with enormous interest;</span>
   <span id="f000843">but,</span>
   <span id="f000844">believe me,</span>
   <span id="f000845">I feel already doubly repaid by the esteem so generously confessed,</span>
   <span id="f000846">so cordially bestowed,</span>
   <span id="f000847">and can only say,</span>
   <span id="f000848">as we used to years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000849">– ’Now let’s forgive and so forget.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000850">But proud Di would not let him add to her obligation,</span>
   <span id="f000851">even by returning her impetuous salute;</span>
   <span id="f000852">she slipped away,</span>
   <span id="f000853">and,</span>
   <span id="f000854">shaking off the last drops,</span>
   <span id="f000855">answered with a curious mixture of old freedom and new respect,</span>
   <span id="f000856">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000857">“No more sentiment,</span>
   <span id="f000858">please,</span>
   <span id="f000859">John.</span>
   <span id="f000860">We know each other now;</span>
   <span id="f000861">and when I find a friend,</span>
   <span id="f000862">I never let him go.</span>
   <span id="f000863">We have smoked the pipe of peace;</span>
   <span id="f000864">so let us go back to our wigwams and bury the feud.</span>
   <span id="f000865">Where were we when I lost my head?</span>
   <span id="f000866">and what were we talking about?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000867">“Cinderella and the Prince.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000868">As she spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000869">John’s eye kindled,</span>
   <span id="f000870">and,</span>
   <span id="f000871">turning,</span>
   <span id="f000872">he looked down at Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000873">who sat diligently ornamenting with microscopic stitches a great patch going on,</span>
   <span id="f000874">the wrong side out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000875">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000876">– so we were;</span>
   <span id="f000877">and now taking pussy for the godmother,</span>
   <span id="f000878">the characters of the story are well personated,</span>
   <span id="f000879">– all but the slipper,” said Di,</span>
   <span id="f000880">laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000881">as she thought of the many times they had played it together years ago.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000882">A sudden movement stirred John’s frame,</span>
   <span id="f000883">a sudden purpose shone in his countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000884">and a sudden change befell his voice,</span>
   <span id="f000885">as he said,</span>
   <span id="f000886">producing from some hiding-place a little wornout shoe,</span>
   <span id="f000887">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">“I can supply the slipper;</span>
   <span id="f000889">– who will try it first?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000890">Di’s black eyes opened wide,</span>
   <span id="f000891">as they fell on the familiar object;</span>
   <span id="f000892">then her romance-loving nature saw the whole plot of that drama which needs but two to act it.</span>
   <span id="f000893">A great delight flushed up into her face,</span>
   <span id="f000894">as she promptly took her cue,</span>
   <span id="f000895">saying –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000896">“No need for us to try it,</span>
   <span id="f000897">Laura;</span>
   <span id="f000898">for it wouldn’t fit us,</span>
   <span id="f000899">if our feet were as small as Chinese dolls;</span>
   <span id="f000900">our parts are played out;</span>
   <span id="f000901">therefore ’Exeunt wicked sisters to the music of the wedding-bells.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000902">And pouncing upon the dismayed artist,</span>
   <span id="f000903">she swept her out and closed the door with a triumphant bang.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000904">John went to Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000905">and,</span>
   <span id="f000906">dropping on his knee as reverently as the herald of the fairy tale,</span>
   <span id="f000907">he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000908">still smiling,</span>
   <span id="f000909">but with lips grown tremulous,</span>
   <span id="f000910">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000911">“Will Cinderella try the little shoe,</span>
   <span id="f000912">and – if it fits – go with the Prince?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000913">But Nan only covered up her face,</span>
   <span id="f000914">weeping happy tears,</span>
   <span id="f000915">while all the weary work strayed down upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000916">as if it knew her holiday had come.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000917">John drew the hidden face still closer,</span>
   <span id="f000918">and while she listened to his eager words,</span>
   <span id="f000919">Nan heard the beating of the strong man’s heart,</span>
   <span id="f000920">and knew it spoke the truth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000921">“Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000922">I promised mother to be silent till I was sure I loved you wholly,</span>
   <span id="f000923">– sure that the knowledge would give no pain when I should tell it,</span>
   <span id="f000924">as I am trying to tell it now.</span>
   <span id="f000925">This little shoe has been mv comforter through this long year,</span>
   <span id="f000926">and I have kept it as other lovers keep their fairer favors.</span>
   <span id="f000927">It has been a talisman more eloquent to me than flower or ring;</span>
   <span id="f000928">for,</span>
   <span id="f000929">when I saw how worn it was,</span>
   <span id="f000930">I always thought of the willing feet that came and went for others’ comfort all day long;</span>
   <span id="f000931">when I saw the little bow you tied,</span>
   <span id="f000932">I always thought of the hands so diligent in serving any one who knew a want or felt a pain;</span>
   <span id="f000933">and when I recalled the gentle creature who had worn it last,</span>
   <span id="f000934">I always saw her patient,</span>
   <span id="f000935">tender,</span>
   <span id="f000936">and devout,</span>
   <span id="f000937">– and tried to grow more worthy of her,</span>
   <span id="f000938">that I might one day dare to ask if she would walk beside me all my life and be my ’angel in the house.’ Will you,</span>
   <span id="f000939">dear?</span>
   <span id="f000940">Believe me,</span>
   <span id="f000941">you shall never know a weariness or grief I have the power to shield you from.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000942">Then Nan,</span>
   <span id="f000943">as simple in her love as in her life,</span>
   <span id="f000944">laid her arms about his neck,</span>
   <span id="f000945">her happy face against his own,</span>
   <span id="f000946">and answered softly,</span>
   <span id="f000947">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000948">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000949">John,</span>
   <span id="f000950">I never can be sad or tired any more!”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

