<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Haylayer Flaga</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Secret of The Growing Gold</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Bram Stoker</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">When Margaret Delandre went to live at Brent’s Rock the whole neighbourhood awoke to the pleasure of an entirely new scandal.</span>
   <span id="f000008">Scandals in connection with either the Delandre family or the Brents of Brent’s Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000009">were not few;</span>
   <span id="f000010">and if the secret history of the county had been written in full both names would have been found well represented.</span>
   <span id="f000011">It is true that the status of each was so different that they might have belonged to different continents – or to different worlds for the matter of that – for hitherto their orbits had never crossed.</span>
   <span id="f000012">The Brents were accorded by the whole section of the country a unique social dominance,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and had ever held themselves as high above the yeoman class to which Margaret Delandre belonged,</span>
   <span id="f000014">as a blue-blooded Spanish hidalgo out-tops his peasant tenantry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000015">The Delandres had an ancient record and were proud of it in their way as the Brents were of theirs.</span>
   <span id="f000016">But the family had never risen above yeomanry;</span>
   <span id="f000017">and although they had been once well-to-do in the good old times of foreign wars and protection,</span>
   <span id="f000018">their fortunes had withered under the scorching of the free trade sun and the ’piping times of peace.’ They had,</span>
   <span id="f000019">as the elder members used to assert,</span>
   <span id="f000020">’stuck to the land’,</span>
   <span id="f000021">with the result that they had taken root in it,</span>
   <span id="f000022">body and soul.</span>
   <span id="f000023">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000024">they,</span>
   <span id="f000025">having chosen the life of vegetables,</span>
   <span id="f000026">had flourished as vegetation does – blossomed and thrived in the good season and suffered in the bad.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Their holding,</span>
   <span id="f000028">Dander’s Croft,</span>
   <span id="f000029">seemed to have been worked out,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and to be typical of the family which had inhabited it.</span>
   <span id="f000031">The latter had declined generation after generation,</span>
   <span id="f000032">sending out now and again some abortive shoot of unsatisfied energy in the shape of a soldier or sailor,</span>
   <span id="f000033">who had worked his way to the minor grades of the services and had there stopped,</span>
   <span id="f000034">cut short either from unheeding gallantry in action or from that destroying cause to men without breeding or youthful care – the recognition of a position above them which they feel unfitted to fill.</span>
   <span id="f000035">So,</span>
   <span id="f000036">little by little,</span>
   <span id="f000037">the family dropped lower and lower,</span>
   <span id="f000038">the men brooding and dissatisfied,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and drinking themselves into the grave,</span>
   <span id="f000040">the women drudging at home,</span>
   <span id="f000041">or marrying beneath them – or worse.</span>
   <span id="f000042">In process of time all disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000043">leaving only two in the Croft,</span>
   <span id="f000044">Wykham Delandre and his sister Margaret.</span>
   <span id="f000045">The man and woman seemed to have inherited in masculine and feminine form respectively the evil tendency of their race,</span>
   <span id="f000046">sharing in common the principles,</span>
   <span id="f000047">though manifesting them in different ways,</span>
   <span id="f000048">of sullen passion,</span>
   <span id="f000049">voluptuousness and recklessness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">The history of the Brents had been something similar,</span>
   <span id="f000051">but showing the causes of decadence in their aristocratic and not their plebeian forms.</span>
   <span id="f000052">They,</span>
   <span id="f000053">too,</span>
   <span id="f000054">had sent their shoots to the wars;</span>
   <span id="f000055">but their positions had been different and they had often attained honour – for without flaw they were gallant,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and brave deeds were done by them before the selfish dissipation which marked them had sapped their vigour.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">The present head of the family – if family it could now be called when one remained of the direct line – was Geoffrey Brent.</span>
   <span id="f000058">He was almost a type of worn out race,</span>
   <span id="f000059">manifesting in some ways its most brilliant qualities,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and in others its utter degradation.</span>
   <span id="f000061">He might be fairly compared with some of those antique Italian nobles whom the painters have preserved to us with their courage,</span>
   <span id="f000062">their unscrupulousness,</span>
   <span id="f000063">their refinement of lust and cruelty – the voluptuary actual with the fiend potential.</span>
   <span id="f000064">He was certainly handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000065">with that dark,</span>
   <span id="f000066">aquiline,</span>
   <span id="f000067">commanding beauty which women so generally recognise as dominant.</span>
   <span id="f000068">With men he was distant and cold;</span>
   <span id="f000069">but such a bearing never deters womankind.</span>
   <span id="f000070">The inscrutable laws of sex have so arranged that even a timid woman is not afraid of a fierce and haughty man.</span>
   <span id="f000071">And so it was that there was hardly a woman of any kind or degree,</span>
   <span id="f000072">who lived within view of Brent’s Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000073">who did not cherish some form of secret admiration for the handsome wastrel.</span>
   <span id="f000074">The category was a wide one,</span>
   <span id="f000075">for Brent’s Rock rose up steeply from the midst of a level region and for a circuit of a hundred miles it lay on the horizon,</span>
   <span id="f000076">with its high old towers and steep roofs cutting the level edge of wood and hamlet,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and far-scattered mansions.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">So long as Geoffrey Brent confined his dissipations to London and Paris and Vienna – anywhere out of sight and sound of his home – opinion was silent.</span>
   <span id="f000079">It is easy to listen to far off echoes unmoved,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and we can treat them with disbelief,</span>
   <span id="f000081">or scorn,</span>
   <span id="f000082">or disdain,</span>
   <span id="f000083">or whatever attitude of coldness may suit our purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000084">But when the scandal came close home it was another matter;</span>
   <span id="f000085">and the feelings of independence and integrity which is in people of every community which is not utterly spoiled,</span>
   <span id="f000086">asserted itself and demanded that condemnation should be expressed.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Still there was a certain reticence in all,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and no more notice was taken of the existing facts than was absolutely necessary.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Margaret Delandre bore herself so fearlessly and so openly – she accepted her position as the justified companion of Geoffrey Brent so naturally that people came to believe that she was secretly married to him,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and therefore thought it wiser to hold their tongues lest time should justify her and also make her an active enemy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">The one person who,</span>
   <span id="f000092">by his interference,</span>
   <span id="f000093">could have settled all doubts was debarred by circumstances from interfering in the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000094">Wykham Delandre had quarrelled with his sister – or perhaps it was that she had quarrelled with him – and they were on terms not merely of armed neutrality but of bitter hatred.</span>
   <span id="f000095">The quarrel had been antecedent to Margaret going to Brent’s Rock.</span>
   <span id="f000096">She and Wykham had almost come to blows.</span>
   <span id="f000097">There had certainly been threats on one side and on the other;</span>
   <span id="f000098">and in the end Wykham,</span>
   <span id="f000099">overcome with passion,</span>
   <span id="f000100">had ordered his sister to leave his house.</span>
   <span id="f000101">She had risen straightway,</span>
   <span id="f000102">and,</span>
   <span id="f000103">without waiting to pack up even her own personal belongings,</span>
   <span id="f000104">had walked out of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000105">On the threshold she had paused for a moment to hurl a bitter threat at Wykham that he would rue in shame and despair to the last hour of his life his act of that day.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Some weeks had since passed;</span>
   <span id="f000107">and it was understood in the neighbourhood that Margaret had gone to London,</span>
   <span id="f000108">when she suddenly appeared driving out with Geoffrey Brent,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and the entire neighbourhood knew before nightfall that she had taken up her abode at the Rock.</span>
   <span id="f000110">It was no subject of surprise that Brent had come back unexpectedly,</span>
   <span id="f000111">for such was his usual custom.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Even his own servants never knew when to expect him,</span>
   <span id="f000113">for there was a private door,</span>
   <span id="f000114">of which he alone had the key,</span>
   <span id="f000115">by which he sometimes entered without anyone in the house being aware of his coming.</span>
   <span id="f000116">This was his usual method of appearing after a long absence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000117">Wykham Delandre was furious at the news.</span>
   <span id="f000118">He vowed vengeance – and to keep his mind level with his passion drank deeper than ever.</span>
   <span id="f000119">He tried several times to see his sister,</span>
   <span id="f000120">but she contemptuously refused to meet him.</span>
   <span id="f000121">He tried to have an interview with Brent and was refused by him also.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Then he tried to stop him in the road,</span>
   <span id="f000123">but without avail,</span>
   <span id="f000124">for Geoffrey was not a man to be stopped against his will.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Several actual encounters took place between the two men,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and many more were threatened and avoided.</span>
   <span id="f000127">At last Wykham Delandre settled down to a morose,</span>
   <span id="f000128">vengeful acceptance of the situation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">Neither Margaret nor Geoffrey was of a pacific temperament,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and it was not long before there began to be quarrels between them.</span>
   <span id="f000131">One thing would lead to another,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and wine flowed freely at Brent’s Rock.</span>
   <span id="f000133">Now and again the quarrels would assume a bitter aspect,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and threats would be exchanged in uncompromising language that fairly awed the listening servants.</span>
   <span id="f000135">But such quarrels generally ended where domestic altercations do,</span>
   <span id="f000136">in reconciliation,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and in a mutual respect for the fighting qualities proportionate to their manifestation.</span>
   <span id="f000138">Fighting for its own sake is found by a certain class of persons,</span>
   <span id="f000139">all the world over,</span>
   <span id="f000140">to be a matter of absorbing interest,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and there is no reason to believe that domestic conditions minimise its potency.</span>
   <span id="f000142">Geoffrey and Margaret made occasional absences from Brent’s Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and on each of these occasions Wykham Delandre also absented himself;</span>
   <span id="f000144">but as he generally heard of the absence too late to be of any service,</span>
   <span id="f000145">he returned home each time in a more bitter and discontented frame of mind than before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">At last there came a time when the absence from Brent’s Rock became longer than before.</span>
   <span id="f000147">Only a few days earlier there had been a quarrel,</span>
   <span id="f000148">exceeding in bitterness anything which had gone before;</span>
   <span id="f000149">but this,</span>
   <span id="f000150">too,</span>
   <span id="f000151">had been made up,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and a trip on the Continent had been mentioned before the servants.</span>
   <span id="f000153">After a few days Wykham Delandre also went away,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and it was some weeks before he returned.</span>
   <span id="f000155">It was noticed that he was full of some new importance – satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000156">exaltation – they hardly knew how to call it.</span>
   <span id="f000157">He went straightway to Brent’s Rock,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and demanded to see Geoffrey Brent,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and on being told that he had not yet returned,</span>
   <span id="f000160">said,</span>
   <span id="f000161">with a grim decision which the servants noted:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">’I shall come again.</span>
   <span id="f000163">My news is solid – it can wait!’ and turned away.</span>
   <span id="f000164">Week after week went by,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and month after month;</span>
   <span id="f000166">and then there came a rumour,</span>
   <span id="f000167">certified later on,</span>
   <span id="f000168">that an accident had occurred in the Zermatt valley.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Whilst crossing a dangerous pass the carriage containing an English lady and the driver had fallen over a precipice,</span>
   <span id="f000170">the gentleman of the party,</span>
   <span id="f000171">Mr.&#160;Geoffrey Brent,</span>
   <span id="f000172">having been fortunately saved as he had been walking up the hill to ease the horses.</span>
   <span id="f000173">He gave information,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and search was made.</span>
   <span id="f000175">The broken rail,</span>
   <span id="f000176">the excoriated roadway,</span>
   <span id="f000177">the marks where the horses had struggled on the decline before finally pitching over into the torrent – all told the sad tale.</span>
   <span id="f000178">It was a wet season,</span>
   <span id="f000179">and there had been much snow in the winter,</span>
   <span id="f000180">so that the river was swollen beyond its usual volume,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and the eddies of the stream were packed with ice.</span>
   <span id="f000182">All search was made,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and finally the wreck of the carriage and the body of one horse were found in an eddy of the river.</span>
   <span id="f000184">Later on the body of the driver was found on the sandy,</span>
   <span id="f000185">torrent-swept waste near Täsch;</span>
   <span id="f000186">but the body of the lady,</span>
   <span id="f000187">like that of the other horse,</span>
   <span id="f000188">had quite disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and was – what was left of it by that time – whirling amongst the eddies of the Rhone on its way down to the Lake of Geneva.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">Wykham Delandre made all the enquiries possible,</span>
   <span id="f000191">but could not find any trace of the missing woman.</span>
   <span id="f000192">He found,</span>
   <span id="f000193">however,</span>
   <span id="f000194">in the books of the various hotels the name of ’Mr.&#160;and Mrs.&#160;Geoffrey Brent’.</span>
   <span id="f000195">And he had a stone erected at Zermatt to his sister’s memory,</span>
   <span id="f000196">under her married name,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and a tablet put up in the church at Bretten,</span>
   <span id="f000198">the parish in which both Brent’s Rock and Dander’s Croft were situated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">There was a lapse of nearly a year,</span>
   <span id="f000200">after the excitement of the matter had worn away,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and the whole neighbourhood had gone on its accustomed way.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Brent was still absent,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and Delandre more drunken,</span>
   <span id="f000204">more morose,</span>
   <span id="f000205">and more revengeful than before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">Then there was a new excitement.</span>
   <span id="f000207">Brent’s Rock was being made ready for a new mistress.</span>
   <span id="f000208">It was officially announced by Geoffrey himself in a letter to the Vicar,</span>
   <span id="f000209">that he had been married some months before to an Italian lady,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and that they were then on their way home.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Then a small army of workmen invaded the house;</span>
   <span id="f000212">and hammer and plane sounded,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and a general air of size and paint pervaded the atmosphere.</span>
   <span id="f000214">One wing of the old house,</span>
   <span id="f000215">the south,</span>
   <span id="f000216">was entirely re-done;</span>
   <span id="f000217">and then the great body of the workmen departed,</span>
   <span id="f000218">leaving only materials for the doing of the old hall when Geoffrey Brent should have returned,</span>
   <span id="f000219">for he had directed that the decoration was only to be done under his own eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000220">He had brought with him accurate drawings of a hall in the house of his bride’s father,</span>
   <span id="f000221">for he wished to reproduce for her the place to which she had been accustomed.</span>
   <span id="f000222">As the moulding had all to be re-done,</span>
   <span id="f000223">some scaffolding poles and boards were brought in and laid on one side of the great hall,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and also a great wooden tank or box for mixing the lime,</span>
   <span id="f000225">which was laid in bags beside it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">When the new mistress of Brent’s Rock arrived the bells of the church rang out,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and there was a general jubilation.</span>
   <span id="f000228">She was a beautiful creature,</span>
   <span id="f000229">full of the poetry and fire and passion of the South;</span>
   <span id="f000230">and the few English words which she had learned were spoken in such a sweet and pretty broken way that she won the hearts of the people almost as much by the music of her voice as by the melting beauty of her dark eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">Geoffrey Brent seemed more happy than he had ever before appeared;</span>
   <span id="f000232">but there was a dark,</span>
   <span id="f000233">anxious look on his face that was new to those who knew him of old,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and he started at times as though at some noise that was unheard by others.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">And so months passed and the whisper grew that at last Brent’s Rock was to have an heir.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Geoffrey was very tender to his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and the new bond between them seemed to soften him.</span>
   <span id="f000238">He took more interest in his tenants and their needs than he had ever done;</span>
   <span id="f000239">and works of charity on his part as well as on his sweet young wife’s were not lacking.</span>
   <span id="f000240">He seemed to have set all his hopes on the child that was coming,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and as he looked deeper into the future the dark shadow that had come over his face seemed to die gradually away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">All the time Wykham Delandre nursed his revenge.</span>
   <span id="f000243">Deep in his heart had grown up a purpose of vengeance which only waited an opportunity to crystallise and take a definite shape.</span>
   <span id="f000244">His vague idea was somehow centred in the wife of Brent,</span>
   <span id="f000245">for he knew that he could strike him best through those he loved,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and the coming time seemed to hold in its womb the opportunity for which he longed.</span>
   <span id="f000247">One night he sat alone in the living-room of his house.</span>
   <span id="f000248">It had once been a handsome room in its way,</span>
   <span id="f000249">but time and neglect had done their work and it was now little better than a ruin,</span>
   <span id="f000250">without dignity or picturesqueness of any kind.</span>
   <span id="f000251">He had been drinking heavily for some time and was more than half stupefied.</span>
   <span id="f000252">He thought he heard a noise as of someone at the door and looked up.</span>
   <span id="f000253">Then he called half savagely to come in;</span>
   <span id="f000254">but there was no response.</span>
   <span id="f000255">With a muttered blasphemy he renewed his potations.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Presently he forgot all around him,</span>
   <span id="f000257">sank into a daze,</span>
   <span id="f000258">but suddenly awoke to see standing before him someone or something like a battered,</span>
   <span id="f000259">ghostly edition of his sister.</span>
   <span id="f000260">For a few moments there came upon him a sort of fear.</span>
   <span id="f000261">The woman before him,</span>
   <span id="f000262">with distorted features and burning eyes seemed hardly human,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and the only thing that seemed a reality of his sister,</span>
   <span id="f000264">as she had been,</span>
   <span id="f000265">was her wealth of golden hair,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and this was now streaked with grey.</span>
   <span id="f000267">She eyed her brother with a long,</span>
   <span id="f000268">cold stare;</span>
   <span id="f000269">and he,</span>
   <span id="f000270">too,</span>
   <span id="f000271">as he looked and began to realise the actuality of her presence,</span>
   <span id="f000272">found the hatred of her which he had had,</span>
   <span id="f000273">once again surging up in his heart.</span>
   <span id="f000274">All the brooding passion of the past year seemed to find a voice at once as he asked her:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">’Why are you here?</span>
   <span id="f000276">You’re dead and buried.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">’I am here,</span>
   <span id="f000278">Wykham Delandre,</span>
   <span id="f000279">for no love of you,</span>
   <span id="f000280">but because I hate another even more than I do you!’ A great passion blazed in her eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">’Him?’ he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000282">in so fierce a whisper that even the woman was for an instant startled till she regained her calm.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000284">him!’ she answered.</span>
   <span id="f000285">’But make no mistake,</span>
   <span id="f000286">my revenge is my own;</span>
   <span id="f000287">and I merely use you to help me to it.’ Wykham asked suddenly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">’Did he marry you?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">The woman’s distorted face broadened out in a ghastly attempt at a smile.</span>
   <span id="f000290">It was a hideous mockery,</span>
   <span id="f000291">for the broken features and seamed scars took strange shapes and strange colours,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and queer lines of white showed out as the straining muscles pressed on the old cicatrices.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">’So you would like to know!</span>
   <span id="f000294">It would please your pride to feel that your sister was truly married!</span>
   <span id="f000295">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000296">you shall not know.</span>
   <span id="f000297">That was my revenge on you,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and I do not mean to change it by a hair’s breadth.</span>
   <span id="f000299">I have come here tonight simply to let you know that I am alive,</span>
   <span id="f000300">so that if any violence be done me where I am going there may be a witness.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">’Where are you going?’ demanded her brother.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">’That is my affair!</span>
   <span id="f000303">and I have not the least intention of letting you know!’ Wykham stood up,</span>
   <span id="f000304">but the drink was on him and he reeled and fell.</span>
   <span id="f000305">As he lay on the floor he announced his intention of following his sister;</span>
   <span id="f000306">and with an outburst of splenetic humour told her that he would follow her through the darkness by the light of her hair,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and of her beauty.</span>
   <span id="f000308">At this she turned on him,</span>
   <span id="f000309">and said that there were others beside him that would rue her hair and her beauty too.</span>
   <span id="f000310">’As he will,’ she hissed;</span>
   <span id="f000311">’for the hair remains though the beauty be gone.</span>
   <span id="f000312">When he withdrew the lynch-pin and sent us over the precipice into the torrent,</span>
   <span id="f000313">he had little thought of my beauty.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Perhaps his beauty would be scarred like mine were he whirled,</span>
   <span id="f000315">as I was,</span>
   <span id="f000316">among the rocks of the Visp,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and frozen on the ice pack in the drift of the river.</span>
   <span id="f000318">But let him beware!</span>
   <span id="f000319">His time is coming!’ and with a fierce gesture she flung open the door and passed out into the night.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000320">Later on that night,</span>
   <span id="f000321">Mrs.&#160;Brent,</span>
   <span id="f000322">who was but half-asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000323">became suddenly awake and spoke to her husband:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">’Geoffrey,</span>
   <span id="f000325">was not that the click of a lock somewhere below our window?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">But Geoffrey – though she thought that he,</span>
   <span id="f000327">too,</span>
   <span id="f000328">had started at the noise – seemed sound asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and breathed heavily.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Again Mrs.&#160;Brent dozed;</span>
   <span id="f000331">but this time awoke to the fact that her husband had arisen and was partially dressed.</span>
   <span id="f000332">He was deadly pale,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and when the light of the lamp which he had in his hand fell on his face,</span>
   <span id="f000334">she was frightened at the look in his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">’What is it,</span>
   <span id="f000336">Geoffrey?</span>
   <span id="f000337">What dost thou?’ she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">’Hush!</span>
   <span id="f000339">little one,’ he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000340">in a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000341">hoarse voice.</span>
   <span id="f000342">’Go to sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000343">I am restless,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and wish to finish some work I left undone.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">’Bring it here,</span>
   <span id="f000346">my husband,’ she said;</span>
   <span id="f000347">’I am lonely and I fear when thou art away.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">For reply he merely kissed her and went out,</span>
   <span id="f000349">closing the door behind him.</span>
   <span id="f000350">She lay awake for awhile,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and then nature asserted itself,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and she slept.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">Suddenly she started broad awake with the memory in her ears of a smothered cry from somewhere not far off.</span>
   <span id="f000354">She jumped up and ran to the door and listened,</span>
   <span id="f000355">but there was no sound.</span>
   <span id="f000356">She grew alarmed for her husband,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and called out:</span>
   <span id="f000358">’Geoffrey!</span>
   <span id="f000359">Geoffrey!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000360">After a few moments the door of the great hall opened,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and Geoffrey appeared at it,</span>
   <span id="f000362">but without his lamp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">’Hush!’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000364">in a sort of whisper,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and his voice was harsh and stern.</span>
   <span id="f000366">’Hush!</span>
   <span id="f000367">Get to bed!</span>
   <span id="f000368">I am working,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and must not be disturbed.</span>
   <span id="f000370">Go to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000371">and do not wake the house!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">With a chill in her heart – for the harshness of her husband’s voice was new to her – she crept back to bed and lay there trembling,</span>
   <span id="f000373">too frightened to cry,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and listened to every sound.</span>
   <span id="f000375">There was a long pause of silence,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and then the sound of some iron implement striking muffled blows!</span>
   <span id="f000377">Then there came a clang of a heavy stone falling,</span>
   <span id="f000378">followed by a muffled curse.</span>
   <span id="f000379">Then a dragging sound,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and then more noise of stone on stone.</span>
   <span id="f000381">She lay all the while in an agony of fear,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and her heart beat dreadfully.</span>
   <span id="f000383">She heard a curious sort of scraping sound;</span>
   <span id="f000384">and then there was silence.</span>
   <span id="f000385">Presently the door opened gently,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and Geoffrey appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000387">His wife pretended to be asleep;</span>
   <span id="f000388">but through her eyelashes she saw him wash from his hands something white that looked like lime.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">In the morning he made no allusion to the previous night,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and she was afraid to ask any question.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">From that day there seemed some shadow over Geoffrey Brent.</span>
   <span id="f000392">He neither ate nor slept as he had been accustomed,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and his former habit of turning suddenly as though someone were speaking from behind him revived.</span>
   <span id="f000394">The old hall seemed to have some kind of fascination for him.</span>
   <span id="f000395">He used to go there many times in the day,</span>
   <span id="f000396">but grew impatient if anyone,</span>
   <span id="f000397">even his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000398">entered it.</span>
   <span id="f000399">When the builder’s foreman came to inquire about continuing his work Geoffrey was out driving;</span>
   <span id="f000400">the man went into the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and when Geoffrey returned the servant told him of his arrival and where he was.</span>
   <span id="f000402">With a frightful oath he pushed the servant aside and hurried up to the old hall.</span>
   <span id="f000403">The workman met him almost at the door;</span>
   <span id="f000404">and as Geoffrey burst into the room he ran against him.</span>
   <span id="f000405">The man apologised:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">’Beg pardon,</span>
   <span id="f000407">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000408">but I was just going out to make some enquiries.</span>
   <span id="f000409">I directed twelve sacks of lime to be sent here,</span>
   <span id="f000410">but I see there are only ten.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">’Damn the ten sacks and the twelve too!’ was the ungracious and incomprehensible rejoinder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">The workman looked surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000413">and tried to turn the conversation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">’I see,</span>
   <span id="f000415">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000416">there is a little matter which our people must have done;</span>
   <span id="f000417">but the governor will of course see it set right at his own cost.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">’What do you mean?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">’That ’ere ’arth-stone,</span>
   <span id="f000420">sir:</span>
   <span id="f000421">Some idiot must have put a scaffold pole on it and cracked it right down the middle,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and it’s thick enough you’d think to stand hanythink.’ Geoffrey was silent for quite a minute,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and then said in a constrained voice and with much gentler manner:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">’Tell your people that I am not going on with the work in the hall at present.</span>
   <span id="f000425">I want to leave it as it is for a while longer.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">’All right sir.</span>
   <span id="f000427">I’ll send up a few of our chaps to take away these poles and lime bags and tidy the place up a bit.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">’No!</span>
   <span id="f000429">No!’ said Geoffrey,</span>
   <span id="f000430">’leave them where they are.</span>
   <span id="f000431">I shall send and tell you when you are to get on with the work.’ So the foreman went away,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and his comment to his master was:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">’I’d send in the bill,</span>
   <span id="f000434">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000435">for the work already done.</span>
   <span id="f000436">’Pears to me that money’s a little shaky in that quarter.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000437">Once or twice Delandre tried to stop Brent on the road,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and,</span>
   <span id="f000439">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000440">finding that he could not attain his object rode after the carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000441">calling out:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">’What has become of my sister,</span>
   <span id="f000443">your wife?’ Geoffrey lashed his horses into a gallop,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and the other,</span>
   <span id="f000445">seeing from his white face and from his wife’s collapse almost into a faint that his object was attained,</span>
   <span id="f000446">rode away with a scowl and a laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">That night when Geoffrey went into the hall he passed over to the great fireplace,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and all at once started back with a smothered cry.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Then with an effort he pulled himself together and went away,</span>
   <span id="f000450">returning with a light.</span>
   <span id="f000451">He bent down over the broken hearth-stone to see if the moonlight falling through the storied window had in any way deceived him.</span>
   <span id="f000452">Then with a groan of anguish he sank to his knees.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">There,</span>
   <span id="f000454">sure enough,</span>
   <span id="f000455">through the crack in the broken stone were protruding a multitude of threads of golden hair just tinged with grey!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000456">He was disturbed by a noise at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and looking round,</span>
   <span id="f000458">saw his wife standing in the doorway.</span>
   <span id="f000459">In the desperation of the moment he took action to prevent discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000460">and lighting a match at the lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000461">stooped down and burned away the hair that rose through the broken stone.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Then rising nonchalantly as he could,</span>
   <span id="f000463">he pretended surprise at seeing his wife beside him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">For the next week he lived in an agony;</span>
   <span id="f000465">for,</span>
   <span id="f000466">whether by accident or design,</span>
   <span id="f000467">he could not find himself alone in the hall for any length of time.</span>
   <span id="f000468">At each visit the hair had grown afresh through the crack,</span>
   <span id="f000469">and he had to watch it carefully lest his terrible secret should be discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000470">He tried to find a receptacle for the body of the murdered woman outside the house,</span>
   <span id="f000471">but someone always interrupted him;</span>
   <span id="f000472">and once,</span>
   <span id="f000473">when he was coming out of the private doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000474">he was met by his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000475">who began to question him about it,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and manifested surprise that she should not have before noticed the key which he now reluctantly showed her.</span>
   <span id="f000477">Geoffrey dearly and passionately loved his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000478">so that any possibility of her discovering his dread secrets,</span>
   <span id="f000479">or even of doubting him,</span>
   <span id="f000480">filled him with anguish;</span>
   <span id="f000481">and after a couple of days had passed,</span>
   <span id="f000482">he could not help coming to the conclusion that,</span>
   <span id="f000483">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000484">she suspected something.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">That very evening she came into the hall after her drive and found him there sitting moodily by the deserted fireplace.</span>
   <span id="f000486">She spoke to him directly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">’Geoffrey,</span>
   <span id="f000488">I have been spoken to by that fellow Delandre,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and he says horrible things.</span>
   <span id="f000490">He tells to me that a week ago his sister returned to his house,</span>
   <span id="f000491">the wreck and ruin of her former self,</span>
   <span id="f000492">with only her golden hair as of old,</span>
   <span id="f000493">and announced some fell intention.</span>
   <span id="f000494">He asked me where she is – and oh,</span>
   <span id="f000495">Geoffrey,</span>
   <span id="f000496">she is dead,</span>
   <span id="f000497">she is dead!</span>
   <span id="f000498">So how can she have returned?</span>
   <span id="f000499">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000500">I am in dread,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and I know not where to turn!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">For answer,</span>
   <span id="f000503">Geoffrey burst into a torrent of blasphemy which made her shudder.</span>
   <span id="f000504">He cursed Delandre and his sister and all their kind,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and in especial he hurled curse after curse on her golden hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000507">hush!</span>
   <span id="f000508">hush!’ she said,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and was then silent,</span>
   <span id="f000510">for she feared her husband when she saw the evil effect of his humour.</span>
   <span id="f000511">Geoffrey in the torrent of his anger stood up and moved away from the hearth;</span>
   <span id="f000512">but suddenly stopped as he saw a new look of terror in his wife’s eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000513">He followed their glance,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and then he too,</span>
   <span id="f000515">shuddered – for there on the broken hearth-stone lay a golden streak as the point of the hair rose though the crack.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">’Look,</span>
   <span id="f000517">look!’ she shrieked.</span>
   <span id="f000518">’Is it some ghost of the dead!</span>
   <span id="f000519">Come away – come away!’ and seizing her husband by the wrist with the frenzy of madness,</span>
   <span id="f000520">she pulled him from the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000521">That night she was in a raging fever.</span>
   <span id="f000522">The doctor of the district attended her at once,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and special aid was telegraphed for to London.</span>
   <span id="f000524">Geoffrey was in despair,</span>
   <span id="f000525">and in his anguish at the danger of his young wife almost forgot his own crime and its consequences.</span>
   <span id="f000526">In the evening the doctor had to leave to attend to others;</span>
   <span id="f000527">but he left Geoffrey in charge of his wife.</span>
   <span id="f000528">His last words were:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">’Remember,</span>
   <span id="f000530">you must humour her till I come in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000531">or till some other doctor has her case in hand.</span>
   <span id="f000532">What you have to dread is another attack of emotion.</span>
   <span id="f000533">See that she is kept warm.</span>
   <span id="f000534">Nothing more can be done.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">Late in the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000536">when the rest of the household had retired,</span>
   <span id="f000537">Geoffrey’s wife got up from her bed and called to her husband.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000538">’Come!’ she said.</span>
   <span id="f000539">’Come to the old hall!</span>
   <span id="f000540">I know where the gold comes from!</span>
   <span id="f000541">I want to see it grow!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">Geoffrey would fain have stopped her,</span>
   <span id="f000543">but he feared for her life or reason on the one hand,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and lest in a paroxysm she should shriek out her terrible suspicion,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and seeing that it was useless to try to prevent her,</span>
   <span id="f000546">wrapped a warm rug around her and went with her to the old hall.</span>
   <span id="f000547">When they entered,</span>
   <span id="f000548">she turned and shut the door and locked it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">’We want no strangers amongst us three tonight!’ she whispered with a wan smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">’We three!</span>
   <span id="f000551">nay we are but two,’ said Geoffrey with a shudder;</span>
   <span id="f000552">he feared to say more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">’Sit here,’ said his wife as she put out the light.</span>
   <span id="f000554">’Sit here by the hearth and watch the gold growing.</span>
   <span id="f000555">The silver moonlight is jealous!</span>
   <span id="f000556">See,</span>
   <span id="f000557">it steals along the floor towards the gold – our gold!’ Geoffrey looked with growing horror,</span>
   <span id="f000558">and saw that during the hours that had passed the golden hair had protruded further through the broken hearth-stone.</span>
   <span id="f000559">He tried to hide it by placing his feet over the broken place;</span>
   <span id="f000560">and his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000561">drawing her chair beside him,</span>
   <span id="f000562">leant over and laid her head on his shoulder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000563">’Now do not stir,</span>
   <span id="f000564">dear,’ she said;</span>
   <span id="f000565">’let us sit still and watch.</span>
   <span id="f000566">We shall find the secret of the growing gold!’ He passed his arm round her and sat silent;</span>
   <span id="f000567">and as the moonlight stole along the floor she sank to sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">He feared to wake her;</span>
   <span id="f000569">and so sat silent and miserable as the hours stole away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">Before his horror-struck eyes the golden-hair from the broken stone grew and grew;</span>
   <span id="f000571">and as it increased,</span>
   <span id="f000572">so his heart got colder and colder,</span>
   <span id="f000573">till at last he had not power to stir,</span>
   <span id="f000574">and sat with eyes full of terror watching his doom.</span></p>
   <p class="separator">* * *</p>
   <p><span id="f000575">In the morning when the London doctor came,</span>
   <span id="f000576">neither Geoffrey nor his wife could be found.</span>
   <span id="f000577">Search was made in all the rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000578">but without avail.</span>
   <span id="f000579">As a last resource the great door of the old hall was broken open,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and those who entered saw a grim and sorry sight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000581">There by the deserted hearth Geoffrey Brent and his young wife sat cold and white and dead.</span>
   <span id="f000582">Her face was peaceful,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and her eyes were closed in sleep;</span>
   <span id="f000584">but his face was a sight that made all who saw it shudder,</span>
   <span id="f000585">for there was on it a look of unutterable horror.</span>
   <span id="f000586">The eyes were open and stared glassily at his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000587">which were twined with tresses of golden hair,</span>
   <span id="f000588">streaked with grey,</span>
   <span id="f000589">which came through the broken hearth-stone.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

