<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Kara Shallenberg</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Tobermory</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Saki</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">It was a chill,</span>
   <span id="f000008">rain-washed afternoon of a late August day,</span>
   <span id="f000009">that indefinite season when partridges are still in security or cold storage,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and there is nothing to hunt – unless one is bounded on the north by the Bristol Channel,</span>
   <span id="f000011">in which case one may lawfully gallop after fat red stags.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Lady Blemley’s house-party was not bounded on the north by the Bristol Channel,</span>
   <span id="f000013">hence there was a full gathering of her guests round the tea-table on this particular afternoon.</span>
   <span id="f000014">And,</span>
   <span id="f000015">in spite of the blankness of the season and the triteness of the occasion,</span>
   <span id="f000016">there was no trace in the company of that fatigued restlessness which means a dread of the pianola and a subdued hankering for auction bridge.</span>
   <span id="f000017">The undisguised openmouthed attention of the entire party was fixed on the homely negative personality of Mr.&#160;Cornelius Appin.</span>
   <span id="f000018">Of all her guests,</span>
   <span id="f000019">he was the one who had come to Lady Blemley with the vaguest reputation.</span>
   <span id="f000020">Some one had said he was “clever,” and he had got his invitation in the moderate expectation,</span>
   <span id="f000021">on the part of his hostess,</span>
   <span id="f000022">that some portion at least of his cleverness would be contributed to the general entertainment.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Until tea-time that day she had been unable to discover in what direction,</span>
   <span id="f000024">if any,</span>
   <span id="f000025">his cleverness lay.</span>
   <span id="f000026">He was neither a wit nor a croquet champion,</span>
   <span id="f000027">a hypnotic force nor a begetter of amateur theatricals.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Neither did his exterior suggest the sort of man in whom women are willing to pardon a generous measure of mental deficiency.</span>
   <span id="f000029">He had subsided into mere Mr.&#160;Appin,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and the Cornelius seemed a piece of transparent baptismal bluff.</span>
   <span id="f000031">And now he was claiming to have launched on the world a discovery beside which the invention of gunpowder,</span>
   <span id="f000032">of the printing-press,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and of steam locomotion were inconsiderable trifles.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Science had made bewildering strides in many directions during recent decades,</span>
   <span id="f000035">but this thing seemed to belong to the domain of miracle rather than to scientific achievement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">“And do you really ask us to believe,” Sir Wilfrid was saying,</span>
   <span id="f000037">“that you have discovered a means for instructing animals in the art of human speech,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and that dear old Tobermory has proved your first successful pupil?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“It is a problem at which I have worked for the last seventeen years,” said Mr.&#160;Appin,</span>
   <span id="f000040">“but only during the last eight or nine months have I been rewarded with glimmerings of success.</span>
   <span id="f000041">Of course I have experimented with thousands of animals,</span>
   <span id="f000042">but latterly only with cats,</span>
   <span id="f000043">those wonderful creatures which have assimilated themselves so marvellously with our civilization while retaining all their highly developed feral instincts.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Here and there among cats one comes across an outstanding superior intellect,</span>
   <span id="f000045">just as one does among the ruck of human beings,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and when I made the acquaintance of Tobermory a week ago I saw at once that I was in contact with a ’Beyond-cat’ of extraordinary intelligence.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I had gone far along the road to success in recent experiments;</span>
   <span id="f000048">with Tobermory,</span>
   <span id="f000049">as you call him,</span>
   <span id="f000050">I have reached the goal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">Mr.&#160;Appin concluded his remarkable statement in a voice which he strove to divest of a triumphant inflection.</span>
   <span id="f000052">No one said “Rats,” though Clovis’s lips moved in a monosyllabic contortion which probably invoked those rodents of disbelief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“And do you mean to say,” asked Miss Resker,</span>
   <span id="f000054">after a slight pause,</span>
   <span id="f000055">“that you have taught Tobermory to say and understand easy sentences of one syllable?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">“My dear Miss Resker,” said the wonderworker patiently,</span>
   <span id="f000057">“one teaches little children and savages and backward adults in that piecemeal fashion;</span>
   <span id="f000058">when one has once solved the problem of making a beginning with an animal of highly developed intelligence one has no need for those halting methods.</span>
   <span id="f000059">Tobermory can speak our language with perfect correctness.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">This time Clovis very distinctly said,</span>
   <span id="f000061">“Beyond-rats!” Sir Wilfrid was more polite,</span>
   <span id="f000062">but equally sceptical.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“Hadn’t we better have the cat in and judge for ourselves?” suggested Lady Blemley.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">Sir Wilfrid went in search of the animal,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and the company settled themselves down to the languid expectation of witnessing some more or less adroit drawing-room ventriloquism.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">In a minute Sir Wilfrid was back in the room,</span>
   <span id="f000067">his face white beneath its tan and his eyes dilated with excitement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">“By Gad,</span>
   <span id="f000069">it’s true!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">His agitation was unmistakably genuine,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and his hearers started forward in a thrill of awakened interest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Collapsing into an armchair he continued breathlessly:</span>
   <span id="f000073">“I found him dozing in the smoking-room,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and called out to him to come for his tea.</span>
   <span id="f000075">He blinked at me in his usual way,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and I said,</span>
   <span id="f000077">’Come on,</span>
   <span id="f000078">Toby;</span>
   <span id="f000079">don’t keep us waiting;’ and,</span>
   <span id="f000080">by Gad!</span>
   <span id="f000081">he drawled out in a most horribly natural voice that he’d come when he dashed well pleased!</span>
   <span id="f000082">I nearly jumped out of my skin!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">Appin had preached to absolutely incredulous hearers;</span>
   <span id="f000084">Sir Wilfrid’s statement carried instant conviction.</span>
   <span id="f000085">A Babel-like chorus of startled exclamation arose,</span>
   <span id="f000086">amid which the scientist sat mutely enjoying the first fruit of his stupendous discovery.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000087">In the midst of the clamour Tobermory entered the room and made his way with velvet tread and studied unconcern across to the group seated round the tea-table.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">A sudden hush of awkwardness and constraint fell on the company.</span>
   <span id="f000089">Somehow there seemed an element of embarrassment in addressing on equal terms a domestic cat of acknowledged dental ability.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">“Will you have some milk,</span>
   <span id="f000091">Tobermory?” asked Lady Blemley in a rather strained voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“I don’t mind if I do,” was the response,</span>
   <span id="f000093">couched in a tone of even indifference.</span>
   <span id="f000094">A shiver of suppressed excitement went through the listeners,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and Lady Blemley might be excused for pouring out the saucerful of milk rather unsteadily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“I’m afraid I’ve spilt a good deal of it,” she said apologetically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“After all,</span>
   <span id="f000098">it’s not my Axminster,” was Tobermory’s rejoinder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">Another silence fell on the group,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and then Miss Resker,</span>
   <span id="f000101">in her best district-visitor manner,</span>
   <span id="f000102">asked if the human language had been difficult to learn.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Tobermory looked squarely at her for a moment and then fixed his gaze serenely on the middle distance.</span>
   <span id="f000104">It was obvious that boring questions lay outside his scheme of life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“What do you think of human intelligence?” asked Mavis Pellington lamely.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Of whose intelligence in particular?” asked Tobermory coldly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000107">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000108">well,</span>
   <span id="f000109">mine for instance,” said Mavis,</span>
   <span id="f000110">with a feeble laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“You put me in an embarrassing position,” said Tobermory,</span>
   <span id="f000112">whose tone and attitude certainly did not suggest a shred of embarrassment.</span>
   <span id="f000113">“When your inclusion in this house-party was suggested Sir Wilfrid protested that you were the most brainless woman of his acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and that there was a wide distinction between hospitality and the care of the feeble-minded.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Lady Blemley replied that your lack of brain-power was the precise quality which had earned you your invitation,</span>
   <span id="f000116">as you were the only person she could think of who might be idiotic enough to buy their old car.</span>
   <span id="f000117">You know,</span>
   <span id="f000118">the one they call ’The Envy of Sisyphus,’ because it goes quite nicely up-hill if you push it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">Lady Blemley’s protestations would have had greater effect if she had not casually suggested to Mavis only that morning that the car in question would be just the thing for her down at her Devonshire home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">Major Barfield plunged in heavily to effect a diversion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“How about your carryings-on with the tortoiseshell puss up at the stables,</span>
   <span id="f000122">eh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000123">The moment he had said it every one realized the blunder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“One does not usually discuss these matters in public,” said Tobermory frigidly.</span>
   <span id="f000125">“From a slight observation of your ways since you’ve been in this house I should imagine you’d find it inconvenient if I were to shift the conversation on to your own little affairs.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">The panic which ensued was not confined to the Major.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“Would you like to go and see if cook has got your dinner ready?” suggested Lady Blemley hurriedly,</span>
   <span id="f000128">affecting to ignore the fact that it wanted at least two hours to Tobermory’s dinner-time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“Thanks,” said Tobermory,</span>
   <span id="f000130">“not quite so soon after my tea.</span>
   <span id="f000131">I don’t want to die of indigestion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000132">“Cats have nine lives,</span>
   <span id="f000133">you know,” said Sir Wilfrid heartily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000134">“Possibly,” answered Tobermory;</span>
   <span id="f000135">“but only one liver.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">“Adelaide!” said Mrs.&#160;Cornett,</span>
   <span id="f000137">“do you mean to encourage that cat to go out and gossip about us in the servants’ hall?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">The panic had indeed become general.</span>
   <span id="f000139">A narrow ornamental balustrade ran in front of most of the bedroom windows at the Towers,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and it was recalled with dismay that this had formed a favourite promenade for Tobermory at all hours,</span>
   <span id="f000141">whence he could watch the pigeons – and heaven knew what else besides.</span>
   <span id="f000142">If he intended to become reminiscent in his present outspoken strain the effect would be something more than disconcerting.</span>
   <span id="f000143">Mrs.&#160;Cornett,</span>
   <span id="f000144">who spent much time at her toilet table,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and whose complexion was reputed to be of a nomadic though punctual disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000146">looked as ill at ease as the Major.</span>
   <span id="f000147">Miss Scrawen,</span>
   <span id="f000148">who wrote fiercely sensuous poetry and led a blameless life,</span>
   <span id="f000149">merely displayed irritation;</span>
   <span id="f000150">if you are methodical and virtuous in private you don’t necessarily want every one to know it.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Bertie van Tahn,</span>
   <span id="f000152">who was so depraved at seventeen that he had long ago given up trying to be any worse,</span>
   <span id="f000153">turned a dull shade of gardenia white,</span>
   <span id="f000154">but he did not commit the error of dashing out of the room like Odo Finsberry,</span>
   <span id="f000155">a young gentleman who was understood to be reading for the Church and who was possibly disturbed at the thought of scandals he might hear concerning other people.</span>
   <span id="f000156">Clovis had the presence of mind to maintain a composed exterior;</span>
   <span id="f000157">privately he was calculating how long it would take to procure a box of fancy mice through the agency of the EXCHANGE AND MART as a species of hush-money.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">Even in a delicate situation like the present,</span>
   <span id="f000159">Agnes Resker could not endure to remain too long in the background.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">“Why did I ever come down here?” she asked dramatically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">Tobermory immediately accepted the opening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Judging by what you said to Mrs.&#160;Cornett on the croquet-lawn yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000163">you were out for food.</span>
   <span id="f000164">You described the Blemleys as the dullest people to stay with that you knew,</span>
   <span id="f000165">but said they were clever enough to employ a first-rate cook;</span>
   <span id="f000166">otherwise they’d find it difficult to get anyone to come down a second time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“There’s not a word of truth in it!</span>
   <span id="f000168">I appeal to Mrs.&#160;Cornett – ” exclaimed the discomfited Agnes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000169">“Mrs.&#160;Cornett repeated your remark afterwards to Bertie van Tahn,” continued Tobermory,</span>
   <span id="f000170">“and said,</span>
   <span id="f000171">’That woman is a regular Hunger Marcher;</span>
   <span id="f000172">she’d go anywhere for four square meals a day,’ and Bertie van Tahn said – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">At this point the chronicle mercifully ceased.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Tobermory had caught a glimpse of the big yellow Tom from the Rectory working his way through the shrubbery towards the stable wing.</span>
   <span id="f000175">In a flash he had vanished through the open French window.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">With the disappearance of his too brilliant pupil Cornelius Appin found himself beset by a hurricane of bitter upbraiding,</span>
   <span id="f000177">anxious inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and frightened entreaty.</span>
   <span id="f000179">The responsibility for the situation lay with him,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and he must prevent matters from becoming worse.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Could Tobermory impart his dangerous gift to other cats?</span>
   <span id="f000182">was the first question he had to answer.</span>
   <span id="f000183">It was possible,</span>
   <span id="f000184">he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000185">that he might have initiated his intimate friend the stable puss into his new accomplishment,</span>
   <span id="f000186">but it was unlikely that his teaching could have taken a wider range as yet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“Then,” said Mrs.&#160;Cornett,</span>
   <span id="f000188">“Tobermory may be a valuable cat and a great pet;</span>
   <span id="f000189">but I’m sure you’ll agree,</span>
   <span id="f000190">Adelaide,</span>
   <span id="f000191">that both he and the stable cat must be done away with without delay.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“You don’t suppose I’ve enjoyed the last quarter of an hour,</span>
   <span id="f000193">do you?” said Lady Blemley bitterly.</span>
   <span id="f000194">“My husband and I are very fond of Tobermory – at least,</span>
   <span id="f000195">we were before this horrible accomplishment was infused into him;</span>
   <span id="f000196">but now,</span>
   <span id="f000197">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000198">the only thing is to have him destroyed as soon as possible.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">“We can put some strychnine in the scraps he always gets at dinner-time,” said Sir Wilfrid,</span>
   <span id="f000200">“and I will go and drown the stable cat myself.</span>
   <span id="f000201">The coachman will be very sore at losing his pet,</span>
   <span id="f000202">but I’ll say a very catching form of mange has broken out in both cats and we’re afraid of it spreading to the kennels.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000203">“But my great discovery!” expostulated Mr.&#160;Appin;</span>
   <span id="f000204">“after all my years of research and experiment – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">“You can go and experiment on the shorthorns at the farm,</span>
   <span id="f000206">who are under proper control,” said Mrs.&#160;Cornett,</span>
   <span id="f000207">“or the elephants at the Zoological Gardens.</span>
   <span id="f000208">They’re said to be highly intelligent,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and they have this recommendation,</span>
   <span id="f000210">that they don’t come creeping about our bedrooms and under chairs,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and so forth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">An archangel ecstatically proclaiming the Millennium,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and then finding that it clashed unpardonably with Henley and would have to be indefinitely postponed,</span>
   <span id="f000214">could hardly have felt more crestfallen than Cornelius Appin at the reception of his wonderful achievement.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Public opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000216">however,</span>
   <span id="f000217">was against him – in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000218">had the general voice been consulted on the subject it is probable that a strong minority vote would have been in favour of including him in the strychnine diet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">Defective train arrangements and a nervous desire to see matters brought to a finish prevented an immediate dispersal of the party,</span>
   <span id="f000220">but dinner that evening was not a social success.</span>
   <span id="f000221">Sir Wilfrid had had rather a trying time with the stable cat and subsequently with the coachman.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Agnes Resker ostentatiously limited her repast to a morsel of dry toast,</span>
   <span id="f000223">which she bit as though it were a personal enemy;</span>
   <span id="f000224">while Mavis Pellington maintained a vindictive silence throughout the meal.</span>
   <span id="f000225">Lady Blemley kept up a flow of what she hoped was conversation,</span>
   <span id="f000226">but her attention was fixed on the doorway.</span>
   <span id="f000227">A plateful of carefully dosed fish scraps was in readiness on the sideboard,</span>
   <span id="f000228">but sweets and savoury and dessert went their way,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and no Tobermory appeared either in the dining-room or kitchen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">The sepulchral dinner was cheerful compared with the subsequent vigil in the smoking-room.</span>
   <span id="f000231">Eating and drinking had at least supplied a distraction and cloak to the prevailing embarrassment.</span>
   <span id="f000232">Bridge was out of the question in the general tension of nerves and tempers,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and after Odo Finsberry had given a lugubrious rendering of “Melisande in the Wood” to a frigid audience,</span>
   <span id="f000234">music was tacitly avoided.</span>
   <span id="f000235">At eleven the servants went to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000236">announcing that the small window in the pantry had been left open as usual for Tobermory’s private use.</span>
   <span id="f000237">The guests read steadily through the current batch of magazines,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and fell back gradually,</span>
   <span id="f000239">on the “Badminton Library” and bound volumes of PUNCH.</span>
   <span id="f000240">Lady Blemley made periodic visits to the pantry,</span>
   <span id="f000241">returning each time with an expression of listless depression which forestalled questioning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">At two o’clock Clovis broke the dominating silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“He won’t turn up to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000244">He’s probably in the local newspaper office at the present moment,</span>
   <span id="f000245">dictating the first instalment of his reminiscences.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Lady What’s-her-name’s book won’t be in it.</span>
   <span id="f000247">It will be the event of the day.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">Having made this contribution to the general cheerfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000249">Clovis went to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000250">At long intervals the various members of the house-party followed his example.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">The servants taking round the early tea made a uniform announcement in reply to a uniform question.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Tobermory had not returned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">Breakfast was,</span>
   <span id="f000254">if anything,</span>
   <span id="f000255">a more unpleasant function than dinner had been,</span>
   <span id="f000256">but before its conclusion the situation was relieved.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Tobermory’s corpse was brought in from the shrubbery,</span>
   <span id="f000258">where a gardener had just discovered it.</span>
   <span id="f000259">From the bites on his throat and the yellow fur which coated his claws it was evident that he had fallen in unequal combat with the big Tom from the Rectory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">By midday most of the guests had quitted the Towers,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and after lunch Lady Blemley had sufficiently recovered her spirits to write an extremely nasty letter to the Rectory about the loss of her valuable pet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">Tobermory had been Appin’s one successful pupil,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and he was destined to have no successor.</span>
   <span id="f000264">A few weeks later an elephant in the Dresden Zoological Garden,</span>
   <span id="f000265">which had shown no previous signs of irritability,</span>
   <span id="f000266">broke loose and killed an Englishman who had apparently been teasing it.</span>
   <span id="f000267">The victim’s name was variously reported in the papers as Oppin and Eppelin,</span>
   <span id="f000268">but his front name was faithfully rendered Cornelius.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“If he was trying German irregular verbs on the poor beast,” said Clovis,</span>
   <span id="f000270">“he deserved all he got.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

