<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This LibriVox recording is in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator">Recording by<br />John Greenman</p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000002">A Dog’s Tale</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000003">by<br />Mark Twain</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000004">Chapter I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000005">My father was a St.&#160;Bernard,</span>
   <span id="f000006">my mother was a collie,</span>
   <span id="f000007">but I am a Presbyterian.</span>
   <span id="f000008">This is what my mother told me,</span>
   <span id="f000009">I do not know these nice distinctions myself.</span>
   <span id="f000010">To me they are only fine large words meaning nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000011">My mother had a fondness for such;</span>
   <span id="f000012">she liked to say them,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and see other dogs look surprised and envious,</span>
   <span id="f000014">as wondering how she got so much education.</span>
   <span id="f000015">But,</span>
   <span id="f000016">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000017">it was not real education;</span>
   <span id="f000018">it was only show:</span>
   <span id="f000019">she got the words by listening in the dining-room and drawing-room when there was company,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and by going with the children to Sunday-school and listening there;</span>
   <span id="f000021">and whenever she heard a large word she said it over to herself many times,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and so was able to keep it until there was a dogmatic gathering in the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000023">then she would get it off,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and surprise and distress them all,</span>
   <span id="f000025">from pocket-pup to mastiff,</span>
   <span id="f000026">which rewarded her for all her trouble.</span>
   <span id="f000027">If there was a stranger he was nearly sure to be suspicious,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and when he got his breath again he would ask her what it meant.</span>
   <span id="f000029">And she always told him.</span>
   <span id="f000030">He was never expecting this but thought he would catch her;</span>
   <span id="f000031">so when she told him,</span>
   <span id="f000032">he was the one that looked ashamed,</span>
   <span id="f000033">whereas he had thought it was going to be she.</span>
   <span id="f000034">The others were always waiting for this,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and glad of it and proud of her,</span>
   <span id="f000036">for they knew what was going to happen,</span>
   <span id="f000037">because they had had experience.</span>
   <span id="f000038">When she told the meaning of a big word they were all so taken up with admiration that it never occurred to any dog to doubt if it was the right one;</span>
   <span id="f000039">and that was natural,</span>
   <span id="f000040">because,</span>
   <span id="f000041">for one thing,</span>
   <span id="f000042">she answered up so promptly that it seemed like a dictionary speaking,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and for another thing,</span>
   <span id="f000044">where could they find out whether it was right or not?</span>
   <span id="f000045">for she was the only cultivated dog there was.</span>
   <span id="f000046">By and by,</span>
   <span id="f000047">when I was older,</span>
   <span id="f000048">she brought home the word Unintellectual,</span>
   <span id="f000049">one time,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and worked it pretty hard all the week at different gatherings,</span>
   <span id="f000051">making much unhappiness and despondency;</span>
   <span id="f000052">and it was at this time that I noticed that during that week she was asked for the meaning at eight different assemblages,</span>
   <span id="f000053">and flashed out a fresh definition every time,</span>
   <span id="f000054">which showed me that she had more presence of mind than culture,</span>
   <span id="f000055">though I said nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000056">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000057">She had one word which she always kept on hand,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and ready,</span>
   <span id="f000059">like a life-preserver,</span>
   <span id="f000060">a kind of emergency word to strap on when she was likely to get washed overboard in a sudden way – that was the word Synonymous.</span>
   <span id="f000061">When she happened to fetch out a long word which had had its day weeks before and its prepared meanings gone to her dump-pile,</span>
   <span id="f000062">if there was a stranger there of course it knocked him groggy for a couple of minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000063">then he would come to,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and by that time she would be away down wind on another tack,</span>
   <span id="f000065">and not expecting anything;</span>
   <span id="f000066">so when he’d hail and ask her to cash in,</span>
   <span id="f000067">I</span>
   <span id="f000068">(the only dog on the inside of her game)</span>
   <span id="f000069">could see her canvas flicker a moment – but only just a moment – then it would belly out taut and full,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and she would say,</span>
   <span id="f000071">as calm as a summer’s day,</span>
   <span id="f000072">“It’s synonymous with supererogation,” or some godless long reptile of a word like that,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and go placidly about and skim away on the next tack,</span>
   <span id="f000074">perfectly comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000075">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and leave that stranger looking profane and embarrassed,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and the initiated slatting the floor with their tails in unison and their faces transfigured with a holy joy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">And it was the same with phrases.</span>
   <span id="f000079">She would drag home a whole phrase,</span>
   <span id="f000080">if it had a grand sound,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and play it six nights and two matinees,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and explain it a new way every time – which she had to,</span>
   <span id="f000083">for all she cared for was the phrase;</span>
   <span id="f000084">she wasn’t interested in what it meant,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and knew those dogs hadn’t wit enough to catch her,</span>
   <span id="f000086">anyway.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000088">she was a daisy!</span>
   <span id="f000089">She got so she wasn’t afraid of anything,</span>
   <span id="f000090">she had such confidence in the ignorance of those creatures.</span>
   <span id="f000091">She even brought anecdotes that she had heard the family and the dinner-guests laugh and shout over;</span>
   <span id="f000092">and as a rule she got the nub of one chestnut hitched onto another chestnut,</span>
   <span id="f000093">where,</span>
   <span id="f000094">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000095">it didn’t fit and hadn’t any point;</span>
   <span id="f000096">and when she delivered the nub she fell over and rolled on the floor and laughed and barked in the most insane way,</span>
   <span id="f000097">while I could see that she was wondering to herself why it didn’t seem as funny as it did when she first heard it.</span>
   <span id="f000098">But no harm was done;</span>
   <span id="f000099">the others rolled and barked too,</span>
   <span id="f000100">privately ashamed of themselves for not seeing the point,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and never suspecting that the fault was not with them and there wasn’t any to see.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">You can see by these things that she was of a rather vain and frivolous character;</span>
   <span id="f000103">still,</span>
   <span id="f000104">she had virtues,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and enough to make up,</span>
   <span id="f000106">I think.</span>
   <span id="f000107">She had a kind heart and gentle ways,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and never harbored resentments for injuries done her,</span>
   <span id="f000109">but put them easily out of her mind and forgot them;</span>
   <span id="f000110">and she taught her children her kindly way,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and from her we learned also to be brave and prompt in time of danger,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and not to run away,</span>
   <span id="f000113">but face the peril that threatened friend or stranger,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and help him the best we could without stopping to think what the cost might be to us.</span>
   <span id="f000115">And she taught us not by words only,</span>
   <span id="f000116">but by example,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and that is the best way and the surest and the most lasting.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000119">the brave things she did,</span>
   <span id="f000120">the splendid things!</span>
   <span id="f000121">she was just a soldier;</span>
   <span id="f000122">and so modest about it – well,</span>
   <span id="f000123">you couldn’t help admiring her,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and you couldn’t help imitating her;</span>
   <span id="f000125">not even a King Charles spaniel could remain entirely despicable in her society.</span>
   <span id="f000126">So,</span>
   <span id="f000127">as you see,</span>
   <span id="f000128">there was more to her than her education.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000129">Chapter II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000130">When I was well grown,</span>
   <span id="f000131">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000132">I was sold and taken away,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and I never saw her again.</span>
   <span id="f000134">She was broken-hearted,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and so was I,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and we cried;</span>
   <span id="f000137">but she comforted me as well as she could,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and said we were sent into this world for a wise and good purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and must do our duties without repining,</span>
   <span id="f000140">take our life as we might find it,</span>
   <span id="f000141">live it for the best good of others,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and never mind about the results;</span>
   <span id="f000143">they were not our affair.</span>
   <span id="f000144">She said men who did like this would have a noble and beautiful reward by and by in another world,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and although we animals would not go there,</span>
   <span id="f000146">to do well and right without reward would give to our brief lives a worthiness and dignity which in itself would be a reward.</span>
   <span id="f000147">She had gathered these things from time to time when she had gone to the Sunday-school with the children,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and had laid them up in her memory more carefully than she had done with those other words and phrases;</span>
   <span id="f000149">and she had studied them deeply,</span>
   <span id="f000150">for her good and ours.</span>
   <span id="f000151">One may see by this that she had a wise and thoughtful head,</span>
   <span id="f000152">for all there was so much lightness and vanity in it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">So we said our farewells,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and looked our last upon each other through our tears;</span>
   <span id="f000155">and the last thing she said – keeping it for the last to make me remember it the better,</span>
   <span id="f000156">I think – was,</span>
   <span id="f000157">“In memory of me,</span>
   <span id="f000158">when there is a time of danger to another do not think of yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000159">think of your mother,</span>
   <span id="f000160">and do as she would do.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">Do you think I could forget that?</span>
   <span id="f000162">No.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000163">Chapter III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000164">It was such a charming home!</span>
   <span id="f000165">– my new one;</span>
   <span id="f000166">a fine great house,</span>
   <span id="f000167">with pictures,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and delicate decorations,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and rich furniture,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and no gloom anywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000171">but all the wilderness of dainty colors lit up with flooding sunshine;</span>
   <span id="f000172">and the spacious grounds around it,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and the great garden – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000174">greensward,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and noble trees,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000177">no end!</span>
   <span id="f000178">And I was the same as a member of the family;</span>
   <span id="f000179">and they loved me,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and petted me,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and did not give me a new name,</span>
   <span id="f000182">but called me by my old one that was dear to me because my mother had given it me – Aileen Mavoureen.</span>
   <span id="f000183">She got it out of a song;</span>
   <span id="f000184">and the Grays knew that song,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and said it was a beautiful name.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">Mrs.&#160;Gray was thirty,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and so sweet and so lovely,</span>
   <span id="f000188">you cannot imagine it;</span>
   <span id="f000189">and Sadie was ten,</span>
   <span id="f000190">and just like her mother,</span>
   <span id="f000191">just a darling slender little copy of her,</span>
   <span id="f000192">with auburn tails down her back,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and short frocks;</span>
   <span id="f000194">and the baby was a year old,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and plump and dimpled,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and fond of me,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and never could get enough of hauling on my tail,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and hugging me,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and laughing out its innocent happiness;</span>
   <span id="f000200">and Mr.&#160;Gray was thirty-eight,</span>
   <span id="f000201">and tall and slender and handsome,</span>
   <span id="f000202">a little bald in front,</span>
   <span id="f000203">alert,</span>
   <span id="f000204">quick in his movements,</span>
   <span id="f000205">business-like,</span>
   <span id="f000206">prompt,</span>
   <span id="f000207">decided,</span>
   <span id="f000208">unsentimental,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and with that kind of trim-chiseled face that just seems to glint and sparkle with frosty intellectuality!</span>
   <span id="f000210">He was a renowned scientist.</span>
   <span id="f000211">I do not know what the word means,</span>
   <span id="f000212">but my mother would know how to use it and get effects.</span>
   <span id="f000213">She would know how to depress a rat-terrier with it and make a lap-dog look sorry he came.</span>
   <span id="f000214">But that is not the best one;</span>
   <span id="f000215">the best one was Laboratory.</span>
   <span id="f000216">My mother could organize a Trust on that one that would skin the tax-collars off the whole herd.</span>
   <span id="f000217">The laboratory was not a book,</span>
   <span id="f000218">or a picture,</span>
   <span id="f000219">or a place to wash your hands in,</span>
   <span id="f000220">as the college president’s dog said – no,</span>
   <span id="f000221">that is the lavatory;</span>
   <span id="f000222">the laboratory is quite different,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and is filled with jars,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and bottles,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and electrics,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and wires,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and strange machines;</span>
   <span id="f000228">and every week other scientists came there and sat in the place,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and used the machines,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and discussed,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and made what they called experiments and discoveries;</span>
   <span id="f000232">and often I came,</span>
   <span id="f000233">too,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and stood around and listened,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and tried to learn,</span>
   <span id="f000236">for the sake of my mother,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and in loving memory of her,</span>
   <span id="f000238">although it was a pain to me,</span>
   <span id="f000239">as realizing what she was losing out of her life and I gaining nothing at all;</span>
   <span id="f000240">for try as I might,</span>
   <span id="f000241">I was never able to make anything out of it at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000242">Other times I lay on the floor in the mistress’s work-room and slept,</span>
   <span id="f000243">she gently using me for a foot-stool,</span>
   <span id="f000244">knowing it pleased me,</span>
   <span id="f000245">for it was a caress;</span>
   <span id="f000246">other times I spent an hour in the nursery,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and got well tousled and made happy;</span>
   <span id="f000248">other times I watched by the crib there,</span>
   <span id="f000249">when the baby was asleep and the nurse out for a few minutes on the baby’s affairs;</span>
   <span id="f000250">other times I romped and raced through the grounds and the garden with Sadie till we were tired out,</span>
   <span id="f000251">then slumbered on the grass in the shade of a tree while she read her book;</span>
   <span id="f000252">other times I went visiting among the neighbor dogs – for there were some most pleasant ones not far away,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and one very handsome and courteous and graceful one,</span>
   <span id="f000254">a curly-haired Irish setter by the name of Robin Adair,</span>
   <span id="f000255">who was a Presbyterian like me,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and belonged to the Scotch minister.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">The servants in our house were all kind to me and were fond of me,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000259">as you see,</span>
   <span id="f000260">mine was a pleasant life.</span>
   <span id="f000261">There could not be a happier dog that I was,</span>
   <span id="f000262">nor a gratefuler one.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I will say this for myself,</span>
   <span id="f000264">for it is only the truth:</span>
   <span id="f000265">I tried in all ways to do well and right,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and honor my mother’s memory and her teachings,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and earn the happiness that had come to me,</span>
   <span id="f000268">as best I could.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">By and by came my little puppy,</span>
   <span id="f000270">and then my cup was full,</span>
   <span id="f000271">my happiness was perfect.</span>
   <span id="f000272">It was the dearest little waddling thing,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and so smooth and soft and velvety,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and had such cunning little awkward paws,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and such affectionate eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and such a sweet and innocent face;</span>
   <span id="f000277">and it made me so proud to see how the children and their mother adored it,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and fondled it,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and exclaimed over every little wonderful thing it did.</span>
   <span id="f000280">It did seem to me that life was just too lovely to –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">Then came the winter.</span>
   <span id="f000282">One day I was standing a watch in the nursery.</span>
   <span id="f000283">That is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000284">I was asleep on the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000285">The baby was asleep in the crib,</span>
   <span id="f000286">which was alongside the bed,</span>
   <span id="f000287">on the side next the fireplace.</span>
   <span id="f000288">It was the kind of crib that has a lofty tent over it made of gauzy stuff that you can see through.</span>
   <span id="f000289">The nurse was out,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and we two sleepers were alone.</span>
   <span id="f000291">A spark from the wood-fire was shot out,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and it lit on the slope of the tent.</span>
   <span id="f000293">I suppose a quiet interval followed,</span>
   <span id="f000294">then a scream from the baby awoke me,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and there was that tent flaming up toward the ceiling!</span>
   <span id="f000296">Before I could think,</span>
   <span id="f000297">I sprang to the floor in my fright,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and in a second was half-way to the door;</span>
   <span id="f000299">but in the next half-second my mother’s farewell was sounding in my ears,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and I was back on the bed again.,</span>
   <span id="f000301">I reached my head through the flames and dragged the baby out by the waist-band,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and tugged it along,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and we fell to the floor together in a cloud of smoke;</span>
   <span id="f000304">I snatched a new hold,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and dragged the screaming little creature along and out at the door and around the bend of the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and was still tugging away,</span>
   <span id="f000307">all excited and happy and proud,</span>
   <span id="f000308">when the master’s voice shouted:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“Begone you cursed beast!” and I jumped to save myself;</span>
   <span id="f000310">but he was furiously quick,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and chased me up,</span>
   <span id="f000312">striking furiously at me with his cane,</span>
   <span id="f000313">I dodging this way and that,</span>
   <span id="f000314">in terror,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and at last a strong blow fell upon my left foreleg,</span>
   <span id="f000316">which made me shriek and fall,</span>
   <span id="f000317">for the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000318">helpless;</span>
   <span id="f000319">the cane went up for another blow,</span>
   <span id="f000320">but never descended,</span>
   <span id="f000321">for the nurse’s voice rang wildly out,</span>
   <span id="f000322">“The nursery’s on fire!” and the master rushed away in that direction,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and my other bones were saved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">The pain was cruel,</span>
   <span id="f000325">but,</span>
   <span id="f000326">no matter,</span>
   <span id="f000327">I must not lose any time;</span>
   <span id="f000328">he might come back at any moment;</span>
   <span id="f000329">so I limped on three legs to the other end of the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000330">where there was a dark little stairway leading up into a garret where old boxes and such things were kept,</span>
   <span id="f000331">as I had heard say,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and where people seldom went.</span>
   <span id="f000333">I managed to climb up there,</span>
   <span id="f000334">then I searched my way through the dark among the piles of things,</span>
   <span id="f000335">and hid in the secretest place I could find.</span>
   <span id="f000336">It was foolish to be afraid there,</span>
   <span id="f000337">yet still I was;</span>
   <span id="f000338">so afraid that I held in and hardly even whimpered,</span>
   <span id="f000339">though it would have been such a comfort to whimper,</span>
   <span id="f000340">because that eases the pain,</span>
   <span id="f000341">you know.</span>
   <span id="f000342">But I could lick my leg,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and that did some good.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">For half an hour there was a commotion downstairs,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and shoutings,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and rushing footsteps,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and then there was quiet again.</span>
   <span id="f000348">Quiet for some minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and that was grateful to my spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000350">for then my fears began to go down;</span>
   <span id="f000351">and fears are worse than pains – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000352">much worse.</span>
   <span id="f000353">Then came a sound that froze me.</span>
   <span id="f000354">They were calling me – calling me by name – hunting for me!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">It was muffled by distance,</span>
   <span id="f000356">but that could not take the terror out of it,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and it was the most dreadful sound to me that I had ever heard.</span>
   <span id="f000358">It went all about,</span>
   <span id="f000359">everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000360">down there:</span>
   <span id="f000361">along the halls,</span>
   <span id="f000362">through all the rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000363">in both stories,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and in the basement and the cellar;</span>
   <span id="f000365">then outside,</span>
   <span id="f000366">and farther and farther away – then back,</span>
   <span id="f000367">and all about the house again,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and I thought it would never,</span>
   <span id="f000369">never stop.</span>
   <span id="f000370">But at last it did,</span>
   <span id="f000371">hours and hours after the vague twilight of the garret had long ago been blotted out by black darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">Then in that blessed stillness my terrors fell little by little away,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and I was at peace and slept.</span>
   <span id="f000374">It was a good rest I had,</span>
   <span id="f000375">but I woke before the twilight had come again.</span>
   <span id="f000376">I was feeling fairly comfortable,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and I could think out a plan now.</span>
   <span id="f000378">I made a very good one;</span>
   <span id="f000379">which was,</span>
   <span id="f000380">to creep down,</span>
   <span id="f000381">all the way down the back stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and hide behind the cellar door,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and slip out and escape when the iceman came at dawn,</span>
   <span id="f000384">while he was inside filling the refrigerator;</span>
   <span id="f000385">then I would hide all day,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and start on my journey when night came;</span>
   <span id="f000387">my journey to – well,</span>
   <span id="f000388">anywhere where they would not know me and betray me to the master.</span>
   <span id="f000389">I was feeling almost cheerful now;</span>
   <span id="f000390">then suddenly I thought:</span>
   <span id="f000391">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000392">what would life be without my puppy!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">That was despair.</span>
   <span id="f000394">There was no plan for me;</span>
   <span id="f000395">I saw that;</span>
   <span id="f000396">I must say where I was;</span>
   <span id="f000397">stay,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and wait,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and take what might come – it was not my affair;</span>
   <span id="f000400">that was what life is – my mother had said it.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Then – well,</span>
   <span id="f000402">then the calling began again!</span>
   <span id="f000403">All my sorrows came back.</span>
   <span id="f000404">I said to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000405">the master will never forgive.</span>
   <span id="f000406">I did not know what I had done to make him so bitter and so unforgiving,</span>
   <span id="f000407">yet I judged it was something a dog could not understand,</span>
   <span id="f000408">but which was clear to a man and dreadful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">They called and called – days and nights,</span>
   <span id="f000410">it seemed to me.</span>
   <span id="f000411">So long that the hunger and thirst near drove me mad,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and I recognized that I was getting very weak.</span>
   <span id="f000413">When you are this way you sleep a great deal,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and I did.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Once I woke in an awful fright – it seemed to me that the calling was right there in the garret!</span>
   <span id="f000416">And so it was:</span>
   <span id="f000417">it was Sadie’s voice,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and she was crying;</span>
   <span id="f000419">my name was falling from her lips all broken,</span>
   <span id="f000420">poor thing,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and I could not believe my ears for the joy of it when I heard her say:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">“Come back to us – oh,</span>
   <span id="f000423">come back to us,</span>
   <span id="f000424">and forgive – it is all so sad without our – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">I broke in with SUCH a grateful little yelp,</span>
   <span id="f000426">and the next moment Sadie was plunging and stumbling through the darkness and the lumber and shouting for the family to hear,</span>
   <span id="f000427">“She’s found,</span>
   <span id="f000428">she’s found!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000429">The days that followed – well,</span>
   <span id="f000430">they were wonderful.</span>
   <span id="f000431">The mother and Sadie and the servants – why,</span>
   <span id="f000432">they just seemed to worship me.</span>
   <span id="f000433">They couldn’t seem to make me a bed that was fine enough;</span>
   <span id="f000434">and as for food,</span>
   <span id="f000435">they couldn’t be satisfied with anything but game and delicacies that were out of season;</span>
   <span id="f000436">and every day the friends and neighbors flocked in to hear about my heroism – that was the name they called it by,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and it means agriculture.</span>
   <span id="f000438">I remember my mother pulling it on a kennel once,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and explaining it in that way,</span>
   <span id="f000440">but didn’t say what agriculture was,</span>
   <span id="f000441">except that it was synonymous with intramural incandescence;</span>
   <span id="f000442">and a dozen times a day Mrs.&#160;Gray and Sadie would tell the tale to new-comers,</span>
   <span id="f000443">and say I risked my life to say the baby’s,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and both of us had burns to prove it,</span>
   <span id="f000445">and then the company would pass me around and pet me and exclaim about me,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and you could see the pride in the eyes of Sadie and her mother;</span>
   <span id="f000447">and when the people wanted to know what made me limp,</span>
   <span id="f000448">they looked ashamed and changed the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and sometimes when people hunted them this way and that way with questions about it,</span>
   <span id="f000450">it looked to me as if they were going to cry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">And this was not all the glory;</span>
   <span id="f000452">no,</span>
   <span id="f000453">the master’s friends came,</span>
   <span id="f000454">a whole twenty of the most distinguished people,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and had me in the laboratory,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and discussed me as if I was a kind of discovery;</span>
   <span id="f000457">and some of them said it was wonderful in a dumb beast,</span>
   <span id="f000458">the finest exhibition of instinct they could call to mind;</span>
   <span id="f000459">but the master said,</span>
   <span id="f000460">with vehemence,</span>
   <span id="f000461">“It’s far above instinct;</span>
   <span id="f000462">it’s REASON,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and many a man,</span>
   <span id="f000464">privileged to be saved and go with you and me to a better world by right of its possession,</span>
   <span id="f000465">has less of it that this poor silly quadruped that’s foreordained to perish”;</span>
   <span id="f000466">and then he laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000468">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000469">look at me – I’m a sarcasm!</span>
   <span id="f000470">bless you,</span>
   <span id="f000471">with all my grand intelligence,</span>
   <span id="f000472">the only think I inferred was that the dog had gone mad and was destroying the child,</span>
   <span id="f000473">whereas but for the beast’s intelligence – it’s REASON,</span>
   <span id="f000474">I tell you!</span>
   <span id="f000475">– the child would have perished!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">They disputed and disputed,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and <em>I</em> was the very center of subject of it all,</span>
   <span id="f000478">and I wished my mother could know that this grand honor had come to me;</span>
   <span id="f000479">it would have made her proud.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">Then they discussed optics,</span>
   <span id="f000481">as they called it,</span>
   <span id="f000482">and whether a certain injury to the brain would produce blindness or not,</span>
   <span id="f000483">but they could not agree about it,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and said they must test it by experiment by and by;</span>
   <span id="f000485">and next they discussed plants,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and that interested me,</span>
   <span id="f000487">because in the summer Sadie and I had planted seeds – I helped her dig the holes,</span>
   <span id="f000488">you know – and after days and days a little shrub or a flower came up there,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and it was a wonder how that could happen;</span>
   <span id="f000490">but it did,</span>
   <span id="f000491">and I wished I could talk – I would have told those people about it and shown then how much I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and been all alive with the subject;</span>
   <span id="f000493">but I didn’t care for the optics;</span>
   <span id="f000494">it was dull,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and when they came back to it again it bored me,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and I went to sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">Pretty soon it was spring,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and sunny and pleasant and lovely,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and the sweet mother and the children patted me and the puppy good-by,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and went away on a journey and a visit to their kin,</span>
   <span id="f000501">and the master wasn’t any company for us,</span>
   <span id="f000502">but we played together and had good times,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and the servants were kind and friendly,</span>
   <span id="f000504">so we got along quite happily and counted the days and waited for the family.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">And one day those men came again,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000507">now for the test,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and they took the puppy to the laboratory,</span>
   <span id="f000509">and I limped three-leggedly along,</span>
   <span id="f000510">too,</span>
   <span id="f000511">feeling proud,</span>
   <span id="f000512">for any attention shown to the puppy was a pleasure to me,</span>
   <span id="f000513">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000514">They discussed and experimented,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and then suddenly the puppy shrieked,</span>
   <span id="f000516">and they set him on the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and he went staggering around,</span>
   <span id="f000518">with his head all bloody,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and the master clapped his hands and shouted:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000520">“There,</span>
   <span id="f000521">I’ve won – confess it!</span>
   <span id="f000522">He’s a blind as a bat!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">And they all said:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“It’s so – you’ve proved your theory,</span>
   <span id="f000525">and suffering humanity owes you a great debt from henceforth,” and they crowded around him,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and wrung his hand cordially and thankfully,</span>
   <span id="f000527">and praised him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000528">But I hardly saw or heard these things,</span>
   <span id="f000529">for I ran at once to my little darling,</span>
   <span id="f000530">and snuggled close to it where it lay,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and licked the blood,</span>
   <span id="f000532">and it put its head against mine,</span>
   <span id="f000533">whimpering softly,</span>
   <span id="f000534">and I knew in my heart it was a comfort to it in its pain and trouble to feel its mother’s touch,</span>
   <span id="f000535">though it could not see me.</span>
   <span id="f000536">Then it dropped down,</span>
   <span id="f000537">presently,</span>
   <span id="f000538">and its little velvet nose rested upon the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and it was still,</span>
   <span id="f000540">and did not move any more.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">Soon the master stopped discussing a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and rang in the footman,</span>
   <span id="f000543">and said,</span>
   <span id="f000544">“Bury it in the far corner of the garden,” and then went on with the discussion,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and I trotted after the footman,</span>
   <span id="f000546">very happy and grateful,</span>
   <span id="f000547">for I knew the puppy was out of its pain now,</span>
   <span id="f000548">because it was asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000549">We went far down the garden to the farthest end,</span>
   <span id="f000550">where the children and the nurse and the puppy and I used to play in the summer in the shade of a great elm,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and there the footman dug a hole,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and I saw he was going to plant the puppy,</span>
   <span id="f000553">and I was glad,</span>
   <span id="f000554">because it would grow and come up a fine handsome dog,</span>
   <span id="f000555">like Robin Adair,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and be a beautiful surprise for the family when they came home;</span>
   <span id="f000557">so I tried to help him dig,</span>
   <span id="f000558">but my lame leg was no good,</span>
   <span id="f000559">being stiff,</span>
   <span id="f000560">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and you have to have two,</span>
   <span id="f000562">or it is no use.</span>
   <span id="f000563">When the footman had finished and covered little Robin up,</span>
   <span id="f000564">he patted my head,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and there were tears in his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and he said:</span>
   <span id="f000567">“Poor little doggie,</span>
   <span id="f000568">you saved HIS child!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000569">I have watched two whole weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000570">and he doesn’t come up!</span>
   <span id="f000571">This last week a fright has been stealing upon me.</span>
   <span id="f000572">I think there is something terrible about this.</span>
   <span id="f000573">I do not know what it is,</span>
   <span id="f000574">but the fear makes me sick,</span>
   <span id="f000575">and I cannot eat,</span>
   <span id="f000576">though the servants bring me the best of food;</span>
   <span id="f000577">and they pet me so,</span>
   <span id="f000578">and even come in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and cry,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and say,</span>
   <span id="f000581">“Poor doggie – do give it up and come home;</span>
   <span id="f000582">DON’T break our hearts!” and all this terrifies me the more,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and makes me sure something has happened.</span>
   <span id="f000584">And I am so weak;</span>
   <span id="f000585">since yesterday I cannot stand on my feet anymore.</span>
   <span id="f000586">And within this hour the servants,</span>
   <span id="f000587">looking toward the sun where it was sinking out of sight and the night chill coming on,</span>
   <span id="f000588">said things I could not understand,</span>
   <span id="f000589">but they carried something cold to my heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000590">“Those poor creatures!</span>
   <span id="f000591">They do not suspect.</span>
   <span id="f000592">They will come home in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000593">and eagerly ask for the little doggie that did the brave deed,</span>
   <span id="f000594">and who of us will be strong enough to say the truth to them:</span>
   <span id="f000595">’The humble little friend is gone where go the beasts that perish.’”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

