<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part I</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000002">What ho!</span>
   <span id="f000003">what ho!</span>
   <span id="f000004">this fellow is dancing mad!<br /></span>
   <span id="f000005">He hath been bitten by the Tarantula.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000006"><em> – All in the Wrong.</em></span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000007">MANY years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000008">I contracted an intimacy with a Mr.&#160;William Legrand.</span>
   <span id="f000009">He was of an ancient Huguenot family,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and had once been wealthy;</span>
   <span id="f000011">but a series of misfortunes had reduced him to want.</span>
   <span id="f000012">To avoid the mortification consequent upon his disasters,</span>
   <span id="f000013">he left New Orleans,</span>
   <span id="f000014">the city of his forefathers,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and took up his residence at Sullivan’s Island,</span>
   <span id="f000016">near Charleston,</span>
   <span id="f000017">South Carolina.</span>
   <span id="f000018">This Island is a very singular one.</span>
   <span id="f000019">It consists of little else than the sea sand,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and is about three miles long.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Its breadth at no point exceeds a quarter of a mile.</span>
   <span id="f000022">It is separated from the main land by a scarcely perceptible creek,</span>
   <span id="f000023">oozing its way through a wilderness of reeds and slime,</span>
   <span id="f000024">a favorite resort of the marsh hen.</span>
   <span id="f000025">The vegetation,</span>
   <span id="f000026">as might be supposed,</span>
   <span id="f000027">is scant,</span>
   <span id="f000028">or at least dwarfish.</span>
   <span id="f000029">No trees of any magnitude are to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000030">Near the western extremity,</span>
   <span id="f000031">where Fort Moultrie stands,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and where are some miserable frame buildings,</span>
   <span id="f000033">tenanted,</span>
   <span id="f000034">during summer,</span>
   <span id="f000035">by the fugitives from Charleston dust and fever,</span>
   <span id="f000036">may be found,</span>
   <span id="f000037">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000038">the bristly palmetto;</span>
   <span id="f000039">but the whole island,</span>
   <span id="f000040">with the exception of this western point,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and a line of hard,</span>
   <span id="f000042">white beach on the seacoast,</span>
   <span id="f000043">is covered with a dense undergrowth of the sweet myrtle,</span>
   <span id="f000044">so much prized by the horticulturists of England.</span>
   <span id="f000045">The shrub here often attains the height of fifteen or twenty feet,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and forms an almost impenetrable coppice,</span>
   <span id="f000047">burthening the air with its fragrance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">In the inmost recesses of this coppice,</span>
   <span id="f000049">not far from the eastern or more remote end of the island,</span>
   <span id="f000050">Legrand had built himself a small hut,</span>
   <span id="f000051">which he occupied when I first,</span>
   <span id="f000052">by mere accident,</span>
   <span id="f000053">made his acquaintance.</span>
   <span id="f000054">This soon ripened into friendship – for there was much in the recluse to excite interest and esteem.</span>
   <span id="f000055">I found him well educated,</span>
   <span id="f000056">with unusual powers of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000057">but infected with misanthropy,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and subject to perverse moods of alternate enthusiasm and melancholy.</span>
   <span id="f000059">He had with him many books,</span>
   <span id="f000060">but rarely employed them.</span>
   <span id="f000061">His chief amusements were gunning and fishing,</span>
   <span id="f000062">or sauntering along the beach and through the myrtles,</span>
   <span id="f000063">in quest of shells or entomological specimens;</span>
   <span id="f000064">– his collection of the latter might have been envied by a Swammerdamm.</span>
   <span id="f000065">In these excursions he was usually accompanied by an old negro,</span>
   <span id="f000066">called Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000067">who had been manumitted before the reverses of the family,</span>
   <span id="f000068">but who could be induced,</span>
   <span id="f000069">neither by threats nor by promises,</span>
   <span id="f000070">to abandon what he considered his right of attendance upon the footsteps of his young “Massa Will.” It is not improbable that the relatives of Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000071">conceiving him to be somewhat unsettled in intellect,</span>
   <span id="f000072">had contrived to instil this obstinacy into Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000073">with a view to the supervision and guardianship of the wanderer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">The winters in the latitude of Sullivan’s Island are seldom very severe,</span>
   <span id="f000075">and in the fall of the year it is a rare event indeed when a fire is considered necessary.</span>
   <span id="f000076">About the middle of October,</span>
   <span id="f000077">18-,</span>
   <span id="f000078">there occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000079">however,</span>
   <span id="f000080">a day of remarkable chilliness.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Just before sunset I scrambled my way through the evergreens to the hut of my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000082">whom I had not visited for several weeks – my residence being,</span>
   <span id="f000083">at that time,</span>
   <span id="f000084">in Charleston,</span>
   <span id="f000085">a distance of nine miles from the Island,</span>
   <span id="f000086">while the facilities of passage and re-passage were very far behind those of the present day.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Upon reaching the hut I rapped,</span>
   <span id="f000088">as was my custom,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and getting no reply,</span>
   <span id="f000090">sought for the key where I knew it was secreted,</span>
   <span id="f000091">unlocked the door and went in.</span>
   <span id="f000092">A fine fire was blazing upon the hearth.</span>
   <span id="f000093">It was a novelty,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and by no means an ungrateful one.</span>
   <span id="f000095">I threw off an overcoat,</span>
   <span id="f000096">took an arm-chair by the crackling logs,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and awaited patiently the arrival of my hosts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">Soon after dark they arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and gave me a most cordial welcome.</span>
   <span id="f000100">Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000101">grinning from ear to ear,</span>
   <span id="f000102">bustled about to prepare some marsh-hens for supper.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Legrand was in one of his fits – how else shall I term them?</span>
   <span id="f000104">– of enthusiasm.</span>
   <span id="f000105">He had found an unknown bivalve,</span>
   <span id="f000106">forming a new genus,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and,</span>
   <span id="f000108">more than this,</span>
   <span id="f000109">he had hunted down and secured,</span>
   <span id="f000110">with Jupiter’s assistance,</span>
   <span id="f000111">a scarabæus which he believed to be totally new,</span>
   <span id="f000112">but in respect to which he wished to have my opinion on the morrow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">“And why not to-night?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000114">rubbing my hands over the blaze,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and wishing the whole tribe of scarabæi at the devil.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000117">if I had only known you were here!” said Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000118">“but it’s so long since I saw you;</span>
   <span id="f000119">and how could I foresee that you would pay me a visit this very night of all others?</span>
   <span id="f000120">As I was coming home I met Lieutenant G – ,</span>
   <span id="f000121">from the fort,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and,</span>
   <span id="f000123">very foolishly,</span>
   <span id="f000124">I lent him the bug;</span>
   <span id="f000125">so it will be impossible for you to see it until the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000126">Stay here to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and I will send Jup down for it at sunrise.</span>
   <span id="f000128">It is the loveliest thing in creation!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“What?</span>
   <span id="f000130">– sunrise?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“Nonsense!</span>
   <span id="f000132">no!</span>
   <span id="f000133">– the bug.</span>
   <span id="f000134">It is of a brilliant gold color – about the size of a large hickory-nut – with two jet black spots near one extremity of the back,</span>
   <span id="f000135">and another,</span>
   <span id="f000136">somewhat longer,</span>
   <span id="f000137">at the other.</span>
   <span id="f000138">The antennæ are – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000139">“Dey aint no tin in him,</span>
   <span id="f000140">Massa Will,</span>
   <span id="f000141">I keep a tellin on you,” here interrupted Jupiter;</span>
   <span id="f000142">“de bug is a goole bug,</span>
   <span id="f000143">solid,</span>
   <span id="f000144">ebery bit of him,</span>
   <span id="f000145">inside and all,</span>
   <span id="f000146">sep him wing – neber feel half so hebby a bug in my life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000148">suppose it is,</span>
   <span id="f000149">Jup,” replied Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000150">somewhat more earnestly,</span>
   <span id="f000151">it seemed to me,</span>
   <span id="f000152">than the case demanded,</span>
   <span id="f000153">“is that any reason for your letting the birds burn?</span>
   <span id="f000154">The color” – here he turned to me – “is really almost enough to warrant Jupiter’s idea.</span>
   <span id="f000155">You never saw a more brilliant metallic lustre than the scales emit – but of this you cannot judge till tomorrow.</span>
   <span id="f000156">In the mean time I can give you some idea of the shape.” Saying this,</span>
   <span id="f000157">he seated himself at a small table,</span>
   <span id="f000158">on which were a pen and ink,</span>
   <span id="f000159">but no paper.</span>
   <span id="f000160">He looked for some in a drawer,</span>
   <span id="f000161">but found none.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Never mind,” said he at length,</span>
   <span id="f000163">“this will answer;” and he drew from his waistcoat pocket a scrap of what I took to be very dirty foolscap,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and made upon it a rough drawing with the pen.</span>
   <span id="f000165">While he did this,</span>
   <span id="f000166">I retained my seat by the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000167">for I was still chilly.</span>
   <span id="f000168">When the design was complete,</span>
   <span id="f000169">he handed it to me without rising.</span>
   <span id="f000170">As I received it,</span>
   <span id="f000171">a loud growl was heard,</span>
   <span id="f000172">succeeded by a scratching at the door.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Jupiter opened it,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and a large Newfoundland,</span>
   <span id="f000175">belonging to Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000176">rushed in,</span>
   <span id="f000177">leaped upon my shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and loaded me with caresses;</span>
   <span id="f000179">for I had shown him much attention during previous visits.</span>
   <span id="f000180">When his gambols were over,</span>
   <span id="f000181">I looked at the paper,</span>
   <span id="f000182">and,</span>
   <span id="f000183">to speak the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000184">found myself not a little puzzled at what my friend had depicted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“Well!” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000186">after contemplating it for some minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000187">“this is a strange scarabæus,</span>
   <span id="f000188">I must confess:</span>
   <span id="f000189">new to me:</span>
   <span id="f000190">never saw anything like it before – unless it was a skull,</span>
   <span id="f000191">or a death’s-head – which it more nearly resembles than anything else that has come under my observation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“A death’s-head!” echoed Legrand – “Oh – yes – well,</span>
   <span id="f000193">it has something of that appearance upon paper,</span>
   <span id="f000194">no doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000195">The two upper black spots look like eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000196">eh?</span>
   <span id="f000197">and the longer one at the bottom like a mouth – and then the shape of the whole is oval.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“Perhaps so,” said I;</span>
   <span id="f000199">“but,</span>
   <span id="f000200">Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000201">I fear you are no artist.</span>
   <span id="f000202">I must wait until I see the beetle itself,</span>
   <span id="f000203">if I am to form any idea of its personal appearance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000205">I don’t know,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000206">a little nettled,</span>
   <span id="f000207">“I draw tolerably – should do it at least – have had good masters,</span>
   <span id="f000208">and flatter myself that I am not quite a blockhead.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000210">my dear fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000211">you are joking then,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000212">“this is a very passable skull – indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000213">I may say that it is a very excellent skull,</span>
   <span id="f000214">according to the vulgar notions about such specimens of physiology – and your scarabæus must be the queerest scarabæus in the world if it resembles it.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000216">we may get up a very thrilling bit of superstition upon this hint.</span>
   <span id="f000217">I presume you will call the bug scarabæus caput hominis,</span>
   <span id="f000218">or something of that kind – there are many similar titles in the Natural Histories.</span>
   <span id="f000219">But where are the antennæ you spoke of?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">“The antennæ!” said Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000221">who seemed to be getting unaccountably warm upon the subject;</span>
   <span id="f000222">“I am sure you must see the antennæ.</span>
   <span id="f000223">I made them as distinct as they are in the original insect,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and I presume that is sufficient.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000225">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000226">well,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000227">“perhaps you have – still I don’t see them;” and I handed him the paper without additional remark,</span>
   <span id="f000228">not wishing to ruffle his temper;</span>
   <span id="f000229">but I was much surprised at the turn affairs had taken;</span>
   <span id="f000230">his ill humor puzzled me – and,</span>
   <span id="f000231">as for the drawing of the beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000232">there were positively no antennæ visible,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and the whole did bear a very close resemblance to the ordinary cuts of a death’s-head.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">He received the paper very peevishly,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and was about to crumple it,</span>
   <span id="f000236">apparently to throw it in the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000237">when a casual glance at the design seemed suddenly to rivet his attention.</span>
   <span id="f000238">In an instant his face grew violently red – in another as excessively pale.</span>
   <span id="f000239">For some minutes he continued to scrutinize the drawing minutely where he sat.</span>
   <span id="f000240">At length he arose,</span>
   <span id="f000241">took a candle from the table,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and proceeded to seat himself upon a sea-chest in the farthest corner of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000243">Here again he made an anxious examination of the paper;</span>
   <span id="f000244">turning it in all directions.</span>
   <span id="f000245">He said nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000246">however,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and his conduct greatly astonished me;</span>
   <span id="f000248">yet I thought it prudent not to exacerbate the growing moodiness of his temper by any comment.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Presently he took from his coat pocket a wallet,</span>
   <span id="f000250">placed the paper carefully in it,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and deposited both in a writing-desk,</span>
   <span id="f000252">which he locked.</span>
   <span id="f000253">He now grew more composed in his demeanor;</span>
   <span id="f000254">but his original air of enthusiasm had quite disappeared.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Yet he seemed not so much sulky as abstracted.</span>
   <span id="f000256">As the evening wore away he became more and more absorbed in reverie,</span>
   <span id="f000257">from which no sallies of mine could arouse him.</span>
   <span id="f000258">It had been my intention to pass the night at the hut,</span>
   <span id="f000259">as I had frequently done before,</span>
   <span id="f000260">but,</span>
   <span id="f000261">seeing my host in this mood,</span>
   <span id="f000262">I deemed it proper to take leave.</span>
   <span id="f000263">He did not press me to remain,</span>
   <span id="f000264">but,</span>
   <span id="f000265">as I departed,</span>
   <span id="f000266">he shook my hand with even more than his usual cordiality.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000267">It was about a month after this</span>
   <span id="f000268">(and during the interval I had seen nothing of Legrand)</span>
   <span id="f000269">when I received a visit,</span>
   <span id="f000270">at Charleston,</span>
   <span id="f000271">from his man,</span>
   <span id="f000272">Jupiter.</span>
   <span id="f000273">I had never seen the good old negro look so dispirited,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and I feared that some serious disaster had befallen my friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000276">Jup,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000277">“what is the matter now?</span>
   <span id="f000278">– how is your master?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000280">to speak de troof,</span>
   <span id="f000281">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000282">him not so berry well as mought be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">“Not well!</span>
   <span id="f000284">I am truly sorry to hear it.</span>
   <span id="f000285">What does he complain of?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“Dar!</span>
   <span id="f000287">dat’s it!</span>
   <span id="f000288">– him neber plain of notin – but him berry sick for all dat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“Very sick,</span>
   <span id="f000290">Jupiter!</span>
   <span id="f000291">– why didn’t you say so at once?</span>
   <span id="f000292">Is he confined to bed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000294">dat he aint!</span>
   <span id="f000295">– he aint find nowhar – dat’s just whar de shoe pinch – my mind is got to be berry hebby bout poor Massa Will.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">“Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000297">I should like to understand what it is you are talking about.</span>
   <span id="f000298">You say your master is sick.</span>
   <span id="f000299">Hasn’t he told you what ails him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000301">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000302">taint worf while for to git mad about de matter – Massa Will say noffin at all aint de matter wid him – but den what make him go about looking dis here way,</span>
   <span id="f000303">wid he head down and he soldiers up,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and as white as a gose?</span>
   <span id="f000305">And den he keep a syphon all de time – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">“Keeps a what,</span>
   <span id="f000307">Jupiter?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Keeps a syphon wid de figgurs on de slate – de queerest figgurs I ebber did see.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Ise gittin to be skeered,</span>
   <span id="f000310">I tell you.</span>
   <span id="f000311">Hab for to keep mighty tight eye pon him noovers.</span>
   <span id="f000312">Todder day he gib me slip fore de sun up and was gone de whole ob de blessed day.</span>
   <span id="f000313">I had a big stick ready cut for to gib him deuced good beating when he did come – but Ise sich a fool dat I hadn’t de heart arter all – he look so berry poorly.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“Eh?</span>
   <span id="f000315">– what?</span>
   <span id="f000316">– ah yes!</span>
   <span id="f000317">– upon the whole I think you had better not be too severe with the poor fellow – don’t flog him,</span>
   <span id="f000318">Jupiter – he can’t very well stand it – but can you form no idea of what has occasioned this illness,</span>
   <span id="f000319">or rather this change of conduct?</span>
   <span id="f000320">Has anything unpleasant happened since I saw you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000321">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000322">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000323">dey aint bin noffin unpleasant since den – ’twas fore den I’m feared – ’twas de berry day you was dare.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">“How?</span>
   <span id="f000325">what do you mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000327">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000328">I mean de bug – dare now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">“The what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000330">“De bug,</span>
   <span id="f000331">– I’m berry sartain dat Massa Will bin bit somewhere bout de head by dat goole-bug.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“And what cause have you,</span>
   <span id="f000333">Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000334">for such a supposition?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">“Claws enuff,</span>
   <span id="f000336">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and mouth too.</span>
   <span id="f000338">I nebber did see sick a deuced bug – he kick and he bite ebery ting what cum near him.</span>
   <span id="f000339">Massa Will cotch him fuss,</span>
   <span id="f000340">but had for to let him go gin mighty quick,</span>
   <span id="f000341">I tell you – den was de time he must ha got de bite.</span>
   <span id="f000342">I did n’t like de look oh de bug mouff,</span>
   <span id="f000343">myself,</span>
   <span id="f000344">no how,</span>
   <span id="f000345">so I would n’t take hold ob him wid my finger,</span>
   <span id="f000346">but I cotch him wid a piece ob paper dat I found.</span>
   <span id="f000347">I rap him up in de paper and stuff piece ob it in he mouff – dat was de way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“And you think,</span>
   <span id="f000349">then,</span>
   <span id="f000350">that your master was really bitten by the beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000351">and that the bite made him sick?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000352">“I do n’t tink noffin about it – I nose it.</span>
   <span id="f000353">What make him dream bout de goole so much,</span>
   <span id="f000354">if taint cause he bit by de goole-bug?</span>
   <span id="f000355">Ise heerd bout dem goole-bugs fore dis.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">“But how do you know he dreams about gold?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“How I know?</span>
   <span id="f000358">why cause he talk about it in he sleep – dat’s how I nose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000360">Jup,</span>
   <span id="f000361">perhaps you are right;</span>
   <span id="f000362">but to what fortunate circumstance am I to attribute the honor of a visit from you to-day?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">“What de matter,</span>
   <span id="f000364">massa?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“Did you bring any message from Mr.&#160;Legrand?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000367">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000368">I bring dis here pissel;” and here Jupiter handed me a note which ran thus:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000369">MY DEAR –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000370">Why have I not seen you for so long a time?</span>
   <span id="f000371">I hope you have not been so foolish as to take offence at any little <em>brusquerie</em> of mine;</span>
   <span id="f000372">but no,</span>
   <span id="f000373">that is improbable.</span>
   <span id="f000374">Since I saw you I have had great cause for anxiety.</span>
   <span id="f000375">I have something to tell you,</span>
   <span id="f000376">yet scarcely know how to tell it,</span>
   <span id="f000377">or whether I should tell it at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">I have not been quite well for some days past,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and poor old Jup annoys me,</span>
   <span id="f000380">almost beyond endurance,</span>
   <span id="f000381">by his well-meant attentions Would you believe it?</span>
   <span id="f000382">– he had prepared a huge stick,</span>
   <span id="f000383">the other day,</span>
   <span id="f000384">with which to chastise me for giving him the slip,</span>
   <span id="f000385">and spending the day,</span>
   <span id="f000386"><em>solus</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000387">among the hills on the main land.</span>
   <span id="f000388">I verily believe that my ill looks alone saved me a flogging.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">I have made no addition to my cabinet since we met.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">If you can,</span>
   <span id="f000391">in any way,</span>
   <span id="f000392">make it convenient,</span>
   <span id="f000393">come over with Jupiter.</span>
   <span id="f000394"><em>Do</em> come.</span>
   <span id="f000395">I wish to see you to-<em>night</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000396">upon business of importance.</span>
   <span id="f000397">I assure you that it is of the <em>highest</em> importance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">Ever yours,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">WILLIAM LEGRAND.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000400">There was something in the tone of this note which gave me great uneasiness.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Its whole style differed materially from that of Legrand.</span>
   <span id="f000402">What could he be dreaming of?</span>
   <span id="f000403">What new crotchet possessed his excitable brain?</span>
   <span id="f000404">What “business of the highest importance” could he possibly have to transact?</span>
   <span id="f000405">Jupiter’s account of him boded no good.</span>
   <span id="f000406">I dreaded lest the continued pressure of misfortune had,</span>
   <span id="f000407">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000408">fairly unsettled the reason of my friend.</span>
   <span id="f000409">Without a moment’s hesitation,</span>
   <span id="f000410">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000411">I prepared to accompany the negro.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000412">Upon reaching the wharf,</span>
   <span id="f000413">I noticed a scythe and three spades,</span>
   <span id="f000414">all apparently new,</span>
   <span id="f000415">lying in the bottom of the boat in which we were to embark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">“What is the meaning of all this,</span>
   <span id="f000417">Jup?” I inquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“Him syfe,</span>
   <span id="f000419">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and spade.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000421">“Very true;</span>
   <span id="f000422">but what are they doing here?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“Him de syfe and de spade what Massa Will sis pon my buying for him in de town,</span>
   <span id="f000424">and de debbils own lot of money I had to gib for em.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">“But what,</span>
   <span id="f000426">in the name of all that is mysterious,</span>
   <span id="f000427">is your ’Massa Will’ going to do with scythes and spades?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000428">“Dat’s more dan I know,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and debbil take me if I don’t blieve ’tis more dan he know,</span>
   <span id="f000430">too.</span>
   <span id="f000431">But it’s all cum ob do bug.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">Finding that no satisfaction was to be obtained of Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000433">whose whole intellect seemed to be absorbed by “de bug,” I now stepped into the boat and made sail.</span>
   <span id="f000434">With a fair and strong breeze we soon ran into the little cove to the northward of Fort Moultrie,</span>
   <span id="f000435">and a walk of some two miles brought us to the hut.</span>
   <span id="f000436">It was about three in the afternoon when we arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000437">Legrand had been awaiting us in eager expectation.</span>
   <span id="f000438">He grasped my hand with a nervous empressement which alarmed me and strengthened the suspicions already entertained.</span>
   <span id="f000439">His countenance was pale even to ghastliness,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and his deep-set eyes glared with unnatural lustre.</span>
   <span id="f000441">After some inquiries respecting his health,</span>
   <span id="f000442">I asked him,</span>
   <span id="f000443">not knowing what better to say,</span>
   <span id="f000444">if he had yet obtained the scarabæus from Lieutenant G – .</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000445">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000446">yes,” he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000447">coloring violently,</span>
   <span id="f000448">“I got it from him the next morning.</span>
   <span id="f000449">Nothing should tempt me to part with that scarabæus.</span>
   <span id="f000450">Do you know that Jupiter is quite right about it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000451">“In what way?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000452">with a sad foreboding at heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">“In supposing it to be a bug of real gold.” He said this with an air of profound seriousness,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and I felt inexpressibly shocked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000455">“This bug is to make my fortune,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000456">with a triumphant smile,</span>
   <span id="f000457">“to reinstate me in my family possessions.</span>
   <span id="f000458">Is it any wonder,</span>
   <span id="f000459">then,</span>
   <span id="f000460">that I prize it?</span>
   <span id="f000461">Since Fortune has thought fit to bestow it upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000462">I have only to use it properly and I shall arrive at the gold of which it is the index.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Jupiter;</span>
   <span id="f000464">bring me that scarabæus!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“What!</span>
   <span id="f000466">de bug,</span>
   <span id="f000467">massa?</span>
   <span id="f000468">I’d rudder not go fer trubble dat bug – you mus git him for your own self.” Hereupon Legrand arose,</span>
   <span id="f000469">with a grave and stately air,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and brought me the beetle from a glass case in which it was enclosed.</span>
   <span id="f000471">It was a beautiful scarabæus,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and,</span>
   <span id="f000473">at that time,</span>
   <span id="f000474">unknown to naturalists – of course a great prize in a scientific point of view.</span>
   <span id="f000475">There were two round,</span>
   <span id="f000476">black spots near one extremity of the back,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and a long one near the other.</span>
   <span id="f000478">The scales were exceedingly hard and glossy,</span>
   <span id="f000479">with all the appearance of burnished gold.</span>
   <span id="f000480">The weight of the insect was very remarkable,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and,</span>
   <span id="f000482">taking all things into consideration,</span>
   <span id="f000483">I could hardly blame Jupiter for his opinion respecting it;</span>
   <span id="f000484">but what to make of Legrand’s concordance with that opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000485">I could not,</span>
   <span id="f000486">for the life of me,</span>
   <span id="f000487">tell.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">“I sent for you,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000489">in a grandiloquent tone,</span>
   <span id="f000490">when I had completed my examination of the beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000491">“I sent for you,</span>
   <span id="f000492">that I might have your counsel and assistance in furthering the views of Fate and of the bug” –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000493">“My dear Legrand,” I cried,</span>
   <span id="f000494">interrupting him,</span>
   <span id="f000495">“you are certainly unwell,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and had better use some little precautions.</span>
   <span id="f000497">You shall go to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000498">and I will remain with you a few days,</span>
   <span id="f000499">until you get over this.</span>
   <span id="f000500">You are feverish and” –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">“Feel my pulse,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">I felt it,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and,</span>
   <span id="f000504">to say the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000505">found not the slightest indication of fever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000506">“But you may be ill and yet have no fever.</span>
   <span id="f000507">Allow me this once to prescribe for you.</span>
   <span id="f000508">In the first place,</span>
   <span id="f000509">go to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000510">In the next” –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">“You are mistaken,” he interposed,</span>
   <span id="f000512">“I am as well as I can expect to be under the excitement which I suffer.</span>
   <span id="f000513">If you really wish me well,</span>
   <span id="f000514">you will relieve this excitement.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000515">“And how is this to be done?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">“Very easily.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Jupiter and myself are going upon an expedition into the hills,</span>
   <span id="f000518">upon the main land,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and,</span>
   <span id="f000520">in this expedition we shall need the aid of some person in whom we can confide.</span>
   <span id="f000521">You are the only one we can trust.</span>
   <span id="f000522">Whether we succeed or fail,</span>
   <span id="f000523">the excitement which you now perceive in me will be equally allayed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“I am anxious to oblige you in any way,” I replied;</span>
   <span id="f000525">“but do you mean to say that this infernal beetle has any connection with your expedition into the hills?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000526">“It has.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">“Then,</span>
   <span id="f000528">Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000529">I can become a party to no such absurd proceeding.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">“I am sorry – very sorry – for we shall have to try it by ourselves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">“Try it by yourselves!</span>
   <span id="f000532">The man is surely mad!</span>
   <span id="f000533">– but stay!</span>
   <span id="f000534">– how long do you propose to be absent?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“Probably all night.</span>
   <span id="f000536">We shall start immediately,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and be back,</span>
   <span id="f000538">at all events,</span>
   <span id="f000539">by sunrise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000540">“And will you promise me,</span>
   <span id="f000541">upon your honor,</span>
   <span id="f000542">that when this freak of yours is over,</span>
   <span id="f000543">and the bug business</span>
   <span id="f000544">(good God!)</span>
   <span id="f000545">settled to your satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000546">you will then return home and follow my advice implicitly,</span>
   <span id="f000547">as that of your physician?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000549">I promise;</span>
   <span id="f000550">and now let us be off,</span>
   <span id="f000551">for we have no time to lose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000552">With a heavy heart I accompanied my friend.</span>
   <span id="f000553">We started about four o’clock – Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000554">Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000555">the dog,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and myself.</span>
   <span id="f000557">Jupiter had with him the scythe and spades – the whole of which he insisted upon carrying – more through fear,</span>
   <span id="f000558">it seemed to me,</span>
   <span id="f000559">of trusting either of the implements within reach of his master,</span>
   <span id="f000560">than from any excess of industry or complaisance.</span>
   <span id="f000561">His demeanor was dogged in the extreme,</span>
   <span id="f000562">and “dat deuced bug” were the sole words which escaped his lips during the journey.</span>
   <span id="f000563">For my own part,</span>
   <span id="f000564">I had charge of a couple of dark lanterns,</span>
   <span id="f000565">while Legrand contented himself with the scarabæus,</span>
   <span id="f000566">which he carried attached to the end of a bit of whip-cord;</span>
   <span id="f000567">twirling it to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000568">with the air of a conjuror,</span>
   <span id="f000569">as he went.</span>
   <span id="f000570">When I observed this last,</span>
   <span id="f000571">plain evidence of my friend’s aberration of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000572">I could scarcely refrain from tears.</span>
   <span id="f000573">I thought it best,</span>
   <span id="f000574">however,</span>
   <span id="f000575">to humor his fancy,</span>
   <span id="f000576">at least for the present,</span>
   <span id="f000577">or until I could adopt some more energetic measures with a chance of success.</span>
   <span id="f000578">In the mean time I endeavored,</span>
   <span id="f000579">but all in vain,</span>
   <span id="f000580">to sound him in regard to the object of the expedition.</span>
   <span id="f000581">Having succeeded in inducing me to accompany him,</span>
   <span id="f000582">he seemed unwilling to hold conversation upon any topic of minor importance,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and to all my questions vouchsafed no other reply than “we shall see!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000584">We crossed the creek at the head of the island by means of a skiff;</span>
   <span id="f000585">and,</span>
   <span id="f000586">ascending the high grounds on the shore of the main land,</span>
   <span id="f000587">proceeded in a northwesterly direction,</span>
   <span id="f000588">through a tract of country excessively wild and desolate,</span>
   <span id="f000589">where no trace of a human footstep was to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000590">Legrand led the way with decision;</span>
   <span id="f000591">pausing only for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000592">here and there,</span>
   <span id="f000593">to consult what appeared to be certain landmarks of his own contrivance upon a former occasion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">In this manner we journeyed for about two hours,</span>
   <span id="f000595">and the sun was just setting when we entered a region infinitely more dreary than any yet seen.</span>
   <span id="f000596">It was a species of table land,</span>
   <span id="f000597">near the summit of an almost inaccessible hill,</span>
   <span id="f000598">densely wooded from base to pinnacle,</span>
   <span id="f000599">and interspersed with huge crags that appeared to lie loosely upon the soil,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and in many cases were prevented from precipitating themselves into the valleys below,</span>
   <span id="f000601">merely by the support of the trees against which they reclined.</span>
   <span id="f000602">Deep ravines,</span>
   <span id="f000603">in various directions,</span>
   <span id="f000604">gave an air of still sterner solemnity to the scene.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">The natural platform to which we had clambered was thickly overgrown with brambles,</span>
   <span id="f000606">through which we soon discovered that it would have been impossible to force our way but for the scythe;</span>
   <span id="f000607">and Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000608">by direction of his master,</span>
   <span id="f000609">proceeded to clear for us a path to the foot of an enormously tall tulip-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000610">which stood,</span>
   <span id="f000611">with some eight or ten oaks,</span>
   <span id="f000612">upon the level,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and far surpassed them all,</span>
   <span id="f000614">and all other trees which I had then ever seen,</span>
   <span id="f000615">in the beauty of its foliage and form,</span>
   <span id="f000616">in the wide spread of its branches,</span>
   <span id="f000617">and in the general majesty of its appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000618">When we reached this tree,</span>
   <span id="f000619">Legrand turned to Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and asked him if he thought he could climb it.</span>
   <span id="f000621">The old man seemed a little staggered by the question,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and for some moments made no reply.</span>
   <span id="f000623">At length he approached the huge trunk,</span>
   <span id="f000624">walked slowly around it,</span>
   <span id="f000625">and examined it with minute attention.</span>
   <span id="f000626">When he had completed his scrutiny,</span>
   <span id="f000627">he merely said,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000628">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000629">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000630">Jup climb any tree he ebber see in he life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">“Then up with you as soon as possible,</span>
   <span id="f000632">for it will soon be too dark to see what we are about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000633">“How far mus go up,</span>
   <span id="f000634">massa?” inquired Jupiter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000635">“Get up the main trunk first,</span>
   <span id="f000636">and then I will tell you which way to go – and here – stop!</span>
   <span id="f000637">take this beetle with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000638">“De bug,</span>
   <span id="f000639">Massa Will!</span>
   <span id="f000640">– de goole bug!” cried the negro,</span>
   <span id="f000641">drawing back in dismay – “what for mus tote de bug way up de tree?</span>
   <span id="f000642">– d-n if I do!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">“If you are afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000644">Jup,</span>
   <span id="f000645">a great big negro like you,</span>
   <span id="f000646">to take hold of a harmless little dead beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000647">why you can carry it up by this string – but,</span>
   <span id="f000648">if you do not take it up with you in some way,</span>
   <span id="f000649">I shall be under the necessity of breaking your head with this shovel.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

