<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">“What de matter now,</span>
   <span id="f000003">massa?” said Jup,</span>
   <span id="f000004">evidently shamed into compliance;</span>
   <span id="f000005">“always want for to raise fuss wid old nigger.</span>
   <span id="f000006">Was only funnin any how.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Me feered de bug!</span>
   <span id="f000008">what I keer for de bug?” Here he took cautiously hold of the extreme end of the string,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and,</span>
   <span id="f000010">maintaining the insect as far from his person as circumstances would permit,</span>
   <span id="f000011">prepared to ascend the tree.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000012">In youth,</span>
   <span id="f000013">the tulip-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000014">or Liriodendron Tulipferum,</span>
   <span id="f000015">the most magnificent of American foresters,</span>
   <span id="f000016">has a trunk peculiarly smooth,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and often rises to a great height without lateral branches;</span>
   <span id="f000018">but,</span>
   <span id="f000019">in its riper age,</span>
   <span id="f000020">the bark becomes gnarled and uneven,</span>
   <span id="f000021">while many short limbs make their appearance on the stem.</span>
   <span id="f000022">Thus the difficulty of ascension,</span>
   <span id="f000023">in the present case,</span>
   <span id="f000024">lay more in semblance than in reality.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Embracing the huge cylinder,</span>
   <span id="f000026">as closely as possible,</span>
   <span id="f000027">with his arms and knees,</span>
   <span id="f000028">seizing with his hands some projections,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and resting his naked toes upon others,</span>
   <span id="f000030">Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000031">after one or two narrow escapes from falling,</span>
   <span id="f000032">at length wriggled himself into the first great fork,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and seemed to consider the whole business as virtually accomplished.</span>
   <span id="f000034">The risk of the achievement was,</span>
   <span id="f000035">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000036">now over,</span>
   <span id="f000037">although the climber was some sixty or seventy feet from the ground.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“Which way mus go now,</span>
   <span id="f000039">Massa Will?” he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">“Keep up the largest branch – the one on this side,” said Legrand.</span>
   <span id="f000041">The negro obeyed him promptly,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and apparently with but little trouble;</span>
   <span id="f000043">ascending higher and higher,</span>
   <span id="f000044">until no glimpse of his squat figure could be obtained through the dense foliage which enveloped it.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Presently his voice was heard in a sort of halloo.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“How much fudder is got for go?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“How high up are you?” asked Legrand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000048">“Ebber so fur,” replied the negro;</span>
   <span id="f000049">“can see de sky fru de top ob de tree.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“Never mind the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000051">but attend to what I say.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Look down the trunk and count the limbs below you on this side.</span>
   <span id="f000053">How many limbs have you passed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“One,</span>
   <span id="f000055">two,</span>
   <span id="f000056">tree,</span>
   <span id="f000057">four,</span>
   <span id="f000058">fibe – I done pass fibe big limb,</span>
   <span id="f000059">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000060">pon dis side.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">“Then go one limb higher.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000062">In a few minutes the voice was heard again,</span>
   <span id="f000063">announcing that the seventh limb was attained.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000065">Jup,” cried Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000066">evidently much excited,</span>
   <span id="f000067">“I want you to work your way out upon that limb as far as you can.</span>
   <span id="f000068">If you see anything strange,</span>
   <span id="f000069">let me know.” By this time what little doubt I might have entertained of my poor friend’s insanity,</span>
   <span id="f000070">was put finally at rest.</span>
   <span id="f000071">I had no alternative but to conclude him stricken with lunacy,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and I became seriously anxious about getting him home.</span>
   <span id="f000073">While I was pondering upon what was best to be done,</span>
   <span id="f000074">Jupiter’s voice was again heard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“Mos feerd for to ventur pon dis limb berry far – tis dead limb putty much all de way.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“Did you say it was a dead limb,</span>
   <span id="f000077">Jupiter?” cried Legrand in a quavering voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000079">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000080">him dead as de door-nail – done up for sartain – done departed dis here life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">“What in the name heaven shall I do?” asked Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000082">seemingly in the greatest distress.</span>
   <span id="f000083">“Do!” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000084">glad of an opportunity to interpose a word,</span>
   <span id="f000085">“why come home and go to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000086">Come now!</span>
   <span id="f000087">– that’s a fine fellow.</span>
   <span id="f000088">It’s getting late,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and,</span>
   <span id="f000090">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000091">you remember your promise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“Jupiter,” cried he,</span>
   <span id="f000093">without heeding me in the least,</span>
   <span id="f000094">“do you hear me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000096">Massa Will,</span>
   <span id="f000097">hear you ebber so plain.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“Try the wood well,</span>
   <span id="f000099">then,</span>
   <span id="f000100">with your knife,</span>
   <span id="f000101">and see if you think it very rotten.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">“Him rotten,</span>
   <span id="f000103">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000104">sure nuff,” replied the negro in a few moments,</span>
   <span id="f000105">“but not so berry rotten as mought be.</span>
   <span id="f000106">Mought ventur out leetle way pon de limb by myself,</span>
   <span id="f000107">dat’s true.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“By yourself!</span>
   <span id="f000109">– what do you mean?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“Why I mean de bug.</span>
   <span id="f000111">’Tis berry hebby bug.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Spose I drop him down fuss,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and den de limb won’t break wid just de weight ob one nigger.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“You infernal scoundrel!” cried Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000115">apparently much relieved,</span>
   <span id="f000116">“what do you mean by telling me such nonsense as that?</span>
   <span id="f000117">As sure as you drop that beetle I’ll break your neck.</span>
   <span id="f000118">Look here,</span>
   <span id="f000119">Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000120">do you hear me?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000122">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000123">needn’t hollo at poor nigger dat style.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“Well!</span>
   <span id="f000125">now listen!</span>
   <span id="f000126">– if you will venture out on the limb as far as you think safe,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and not let go the beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000128">I’ll make you a present of a silver dollar as soon as you get down.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“I’m gwine,</span>
   <span id="f000130">Massa Will – deed I is,” replied the negro very promptly – “mos out to the eend now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“Out to the end!” here fairly screamed Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000132">“do you say you are out to the end of that limb?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Soon be to de eend,</span>
   <span id="f000134">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000135">– o-o-o-o-oh!</span>
   <span id="f000136">Lor-gol-a-marcy!</span>
   <span id="f000137">what is dis here pon de tree?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“Well!” cried Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000139">highly delighted,</span>
   <span id="f000140">“what is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“Why taint noffin but a skull – somebody bin lef him head up de tree,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and de crows done gobble ebery bit ob de meat off.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“A skull,</span>
   <span id="f000144">you say!</span>
   <span id="f000145">– very well!</span>
   <span id="f000146">– how is it fastened to the limb?</span>
   <span id="f000147">– what holds it on?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“Sure nuff,</span>
   <span id="f000149">massa;</span>
   <span id="f000150">mus look.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Why dis berry curous sarcumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000152">pon my word – dare’s a great big nail in de skull,</span>
   <span id="f000153">what fastens ob it on to de tree.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000154">“Well now,</span>
   <span id="f000155">Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000156">do exactly as I tell you – do you hear?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000158">massa.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“Pay attention,</span>
   <span id="f000160">then!</span>
   <span id="f000161">– find the left eye of the skull.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Hum!</span>
   <span id="f000163">hoo!</span>
   <span id="f000164">dat’s good!</span>
   <span id="f000165">why dare aint no eye lef at all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“Curse your stupidity!</span>
   <span id="f000167">do you know your right hand from your left?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000169">I nose dat – nose all bout dat – tis my lef hand what I chops de wood wid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">“To be sure!</span>
   <span id="f000171">you are left-handed;</span>
   <span id="f000172">and your left eye is on the same side as your left hand.</span>
   <span id="f000173">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000174">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000175">you can find the left eye of the skull,</span>
   <span id="f000176">or the place where the left eye has been.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Have you found it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000178">Here was a long pause.</span>
   <span id="f000179">At length the negro asked,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“Is de lef eye of de skull pon de same side as de lef hand of de skull,</span>
   <span id="f000181">too?</span>
   <span id="f000182">– cause de skull aint got not a bit ob a hand at all – nebber mind!</span>
   <span id="f000183">I got de lef eye now – here de lef eye!</span>
   <span id="f000184">what mus do wid it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“Let the beetle drop through it,</span>
   <span id="f000186">as far as the string will reach – but be careful and not let go your hold of the string.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000187">“All dat done,</span>
   <span id="f000188">Massa Will;</span>
   <span id="f000189">mighty easy ting for to put de bug fru de hole – look out for him dare below!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">During this colloquy no portion of Jupiter’s person could be seen;</span>
   <span id="f000191">but the beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000192">which he had suffered to descend,</span>
   <span id="f000193">was now visible at the end of the string,</span>
   <span id="f000194">and glistened,</span>
   <span id="f000195">like a globe of burnished gold,</span>
   <span id="f000196">in the last rays of the setting sun,</span>
   <span id="f000197">some of which still faintly illumined the eminence upon which we stood.</span>
   <span id="f000198">The scarabæus hung quite clear of any branches,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and,</span>
   <span id="f000200">if allowed to fall,</span>
   <span id="f000201">would have fallen at our feet.</span>
   <span id="f000202">Legrand immediately took the scythe,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and cleared with it a circular space,</span>
   <span id="f000204">three or four yards in diameter,</span>
   <span id="f000205">just beneath the insect,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and,</span>
   <span id="f000207">having accomplished this,</span>
   <span id="f000208">ordered Jupiter to let go the string and come down from the tree.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">Driving a peg,</span>
   <span id="f000210">with great nicety,</span>
   <span id="f000211">into the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000212">at the precise spot where the beetle fell,</span>
   <span id="f000213">my friend now produced from his pocket a tape measure.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Fastening one end of this at that point of the trunk,</span>
   <span id="f000215">of the tree which was nearest the peg,</span>
   <span id="f000216">he unrolled it till it reached the peg,</span>
   <span id="f000217">and thence farther unrolled it,</span>
   <span id="f000218">in the direction already established by the two points of the tree and the peg,</span>
   <span id="f000219">for the distance of fifty feet – Jupiter clearing away the brambles with the scythe.</span>
   <span id="f000220">At the spot thus attained a second peg was driven,</span>
   <span id="f000221">and about this,</span>
   <span id="f000222">as a centre,</span>
   <span id="f000223">a rude circle,</span>
   <span id="f000224">about four feet in diameter,</span>
   <span id="f000225">described.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Taking now a spade himself,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and giving one to Jupiter and one to me,</span>
   <span id="f000228">Legrand begged us to set about digging as quickly as possible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">To speak the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000230">I had no especial relish for such amusement at any time,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and,</span>
   <span id="f000232">at that particular moment,</span>
   <span id="f000233">would most willingly have declined it;</span>
   <span id="f000234">for the night was coming on,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and I felt much fatigued with the exercise already taken;</span>
   <span id="f000236">but I saw no mode of escape,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and was fearful of disturbing my poor friend’s equanimity by a refusal.</span>
   <span id="f000238">Could I have depended,</span>
   <span id="f000239">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000240">upon Jupiter’s aid,</span>
   <span id="f000241">I would have had no hesitation in attempting to get the lunatic home by force;</span>
   <span id="f000242">but I was too well assured of the old negro’s disposition,</span>
   <span id="f000243">to hope that he would assist me,</span>
   <span id="f000244">under any circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000245">in a personal contest with his master.</span>
   <span id="f000246">I made no doubt that the latter had been infected with some of the innumerable Southern superstitions about money buried,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and that his phantasy had received confirmation by the finding of the scarabæus,</span>
   <span id="f000248">or,</span>
   <span id="f000249">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000250">by Jupiter’s obstinacy in maintaining it to be “a bug of real gold.” A mind disposed to lunacy would readily be led away by such suggestions – especially if chiming in with favorite preconceived ideas – and then I called to mind the poor fellow’s speech about the beetle’s being “the index of his fortune.” Upon the whole,</span>
   <span id="f000251">I was sadly vexed and puzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000252">but,</span>
   <span id="f000253">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000254">I concluded to make a virtue of necessity – to dig with a good will,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and thus the sooner to convince the visionary,</span>
   <span id="f000256">by ocular demonstration,</span>
   <span id="f000257">of the fallacy of the opinions he entertained.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">The lanterns having been lit,</span>
   <span id="f000259">we all fell to work with a zeal worthy a more rational cause;</span>
   <span id="f000260">and,</span>
   <span id="f000261">as the glare fell upon our persons and implements,</span>
   <span id="f000262">I could not help thinking how picturesque a group we composed,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and how strange and suspicious our labors must have appeared to any interloper who,</span>
   <span id="f000264">by chance,</span>
   <span id="f000265">might have stumbled upon our whereabouts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">We dug very steadily for two hours.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Little was said;</span>
   <span id="f000268">and our chief embarrassment lay in the yelpings of the dog,</span>
   <span id="f000269">who took exceeding interest in our proceedings.</span>
   <span id="f000270">He,</span>
   <span id="f000271">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000272">became so obstreperous that we grew fearful of his giving the alarm to some stragglers in the vicinity;</span>
   <span id="f000273">– or,</span>
   <span id="f000274">rather,</span>
   <span id="f000275">this was the apprehension of Legrand;</span>
   <span id="f000276">– for myself,</span>
   <span id="f000277">I should have rejoiced at any interruption which might have enabled me to get the wanderer home.</span>
   <span id="f000278">The noise was,</span>
   <span id="f000279">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000280">very effectually silenced by Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000281">who,</span>
   <span id="f000282">getting out of the hole with a dogged air of deliberation,</span>
   <span id="f000283">tied the brute’s mouth up with one of his suspenders,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and then returned,</span>
   <span id="f000285">with a grave chuckle,</span>
   <span id="f000286">to his task.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000287">When the time mentioned had expired,</span>
   <span id="f000288">we had reached a depth of five feet,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and yet no signs of any treasure became manifest.</span>
   <span id="f000290">A general pause ensued,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and I began to hope that the farce was at an end.</span>
   <span id="f000292">Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000293">however,</span>
   <span id="f000294">although evidently much disconcerted,</span>
   <span id="f000295">wiped his brow thoughtfully and recommenced.</span>
   <span id="f000296">We had excavated the entire circle of four feet diameter,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and now we slightly enlarged the limit,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and went to the farther depth of two feet.</span>
   <span id="f000299">Still nothing appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000300">The gold-seeker,</span>
   <span id="f000301">whom I sincerely pitied,</span>
   <span id="f000302">at length clambered from the pit,</span>
   <span id="f000303">with the bitterest disappointment imprinted upon every feature,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and proceeded,</span>
   <span id="f000305">slowly and reluctantly,</span>
   <span id="f000306">to put on his coat,</span>
   <span id="f000307">which he had thrown off at the beginning of his labor.</span>
   <span id="f000308">In the mean time I made no remark.</span>
   <span id="f000309">Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000310">at a signal from his master,</span>
   <span id="f000311">began to gather up his tools.</span>
   <span id="f000312">This done,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and the dog having been unmuzzled,</span>
   <span id="f000314">we turned in profound silence towards home.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000315">We had taken,</span>
   <span id="f000316">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000317">a dozen steps in this direction,</span>
   <span id="f000318">when,</span>
   <span id="f000319">with a loud oath,</span>
   <span id="f000320">Legrand strode up to Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and seized him by the collar.</span>
   <span id="f000322">The astonished negro opened his eyes and mouth to the fullest extent,</span>
   <span id="f000323">let fall the spades,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and fell upon his knees.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">“You scoundrel,” said Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000326">hissing out the syllables from between his clenched teeth – “you infernal black villain!</span>
   <span id="f000327">– speak,</span>
   <span id="f000328">I tell you!</span>
   <span id="f000329">– answer me this instant,</span>
   <span id="f000330">without prevarication!</span>
   <span id="f000331">– which – which is your left eye?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000333">my golly,</span>
   <span id="f000334">Massa Will!</span>
   <span id="f000335">aint dis here my lef eye for sartain?” roared the terrified Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000336">placing his hand upon his right organ of vision,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and holding it there with a desperate pertinacity,</span>
   <span id="f000338">as if in immediate dread of his master’s attempt at a gouge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“I thought so!</span>
   <span id="f000340">– I knew it!</span>
   <span id="f000341">hurrah!” vociferated Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000342">letting the negro go,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and executing a series of curvets and caracols,</span>
   <span id="f000344">much to the astonishment of his valet,</span>
   <span id="f000345">who,</span>
   <span id="f000346">arising from his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000347">looked,</span>
   <span id="f000348">mutely,</span>
   <span id="f000349">from his master to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000350">and then from myself to his master.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000351">“Come!</span>
   <span id="f000352">we must go back,” said the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000353">“the game’s not up yet;” and he again led the way to the tulip-tree.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">“Jupiter,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000355">when we reached its foot,</span>
   <span id="f000356">“come here!</span>
   <span id="f000357">was the skull nailed to the limb with the face outwards,</span>
   <span id="f000358">or with the face to the limb?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">“De face was out,</span>
   <span id="f000360">massa,</span>
   <span id="f000361">so dat de crows could get at de eyes good,</span>
   <span id="f000362">widout any trouble.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000364">then,</span>
   <span id="f000365">was it this eye or that through which you dropped the beetle?” – here Legrand touched each of Jupiter’s eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">“Twas dis eye,</span>
   <span id="f000367">massa – de lef eye – jis as you tell me,” and here it was his right eye that the negro indicated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“That will do – must try it again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000369">Here my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000370">about whose madness I now saw,</span>
   <span id="f000371">or fancied that I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000372">certain indications of method,</span>
   <span id="f000373">removed the peg which marked the spot where the beetle fell,</span>
   <span id="f000374">to a spot about three inches to the westward of its former position.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Taking,</span>
   <span id="f000376">now,</span>
   <span id="f000377">the tape measure from the nearest point of the trunk to the peg,</span>
   <span id="f000378">as before,</span>
   <span id="f000379">and continuing the extension in a straight line to the distance of fifty feet,</span>
   <span id="f000380">a spot was indicated,</span>
   <span id="f000381">removed,</span>
   <span id="f000382">by several yards,</span>
   <span id="f000383">from the point at which we had been digging.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">Around the new position a circle,</span>
   <span id="f000385">somewhat larger than in the former instance,</span>
   <span id="f000386">was now described,</span>
   <span id="f000387">and we again set to work with the spades.</span>
   <span id="f000388">I was dreadfully weary,</span>
   <span id="f000389">but,</span>
   <span id="f000390">scarcely understanding what had occasioned the change in my thoughts,</span>
   <span id="f000391">I felt no longer any great aversion from the labor imposed.</span>
   <span id="f000392">I had become most unaccountably interested – nay,</span>
   <span id="f000393">even excited.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Perhaps there was something,</span>
   <span id="f000395">amid all the extravagant demeanor of Legrand – some air of forethought,</span>
   <span id="f000396">or of deliberation,</span>
   <span id="f000397">which impressed me.</span>
   <span id="f000398">I dug eagerly,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and now and then caught myself actually looking,</span>
   <span id="f000400">with something that very much resembled expectation,</span>
   <span id="f000401">for the fancied treasure,</span>
   <span id="f000402">the vision of which had demented my unfortunate companion.</span>
   <span id="f000403">At a period when such vagaries of thought most fully possessed me,</span>
   <span id="f000404">and when we had been at work perhaps an hour and a half,</span>
   <span id="f000405">we were again interrupted by the violent howlings of the dog.</span>
   <span id="f000406">His uneasiness,</span>
   <span id="f000407">in the first instance,</span>
   <span id="f000408">had been,</span>
   <span id="f000409">evidently,</span>
   <span id="f000410">but the result of playfulness or caprice,</span>
   <span id="f000411">but he now assumed a bitter and serious tone.</span>
   <span id="f000412">Upon Jupiter’s again attempting to muzzle him,</span>
   <span id="f000413">he made furious resistance,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and,</span>
   <span id="f000415">leaping into the hole,</span>
   <span id="f000416">tore up the mould frantically with his claws.</span>
   <span id="f000417">In a few seconds he had uncovered a mass of human bones,</span>
   <span id="f000418">forming two complete skeletons,</span>
   <span id="f000419">intermingled with several buttons of metal,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and what appeared to be the dust of decayed woollen.</span>
   <span id="f000421">One or two strokes of a spade upturned the blade of a large Spanish knife,</span>
   <span id="f000422">and,</span>
   <span id="f000423">as we dug farther,</span>
   <span id="f000424">three or four loose pieces of gold and silver coin came to light.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">At sight of these the joy of Jupiter could scarcely be restrained,</span>
   <span id="f000426">but the countenance of his master wore an air of extreme disappointment He urged us,</span>
   <span id="f000427">however,</span>
   <span id="f000428">to continue our exertions,</span>
   <span id="f000429">and the words were hardly uttered when I stumbled and fell forward,</span>
   <span id="f000430">having caught the toe of my boot in a large ring of iron that lay half buried in the loose earth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">We now worked in earnest,</span>
   <span id="f000432">and never did I pass ten minutes of more intense excitement.</span>
   <span id="f000433">During this interval we had fairly unearthed an oblong chest of wood,</span>
   <span id="f000434">which,</span>
   <span id="f000435">from its perfect preservation and wonderful hardness,</span>
   <span id="f000436">had plainly been subjected to some mineralizing process – perhaps that of the Bi-chloride of Mercury.</span>
   <span id="f000437">This box was three feet and a half long,</span>
   <span id="f000438">three feet broad,</span>
   <span id="f000439">and two and a half feet deep.</span>
   <span id="f000440">It was firmly secured by bands of wrought iron,</span>
   <span id="f000441">riveted,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and forming a kind of open trelliswork over the whole.</span>
   <span id="f000443">On each side of the chest,</span>
   <span id="f000444">near the top,</span>
   <span id="f000445">were three rings of iron – six in all – by means of which a firm hold could be obtained by six persons.</span>
   <span id="f000446">Our utmost united endeavors served only to disturb the coffer very slightly in its bed.</span>
   <span id="f000447">We at once saw the impossibility of removing so great a weight.</span>
   <span id="f000448">Luckily,</span>
   <span id="f000449">the sole fastenings of the lid consisted of two sliding bolts.</span>
   <span id="f000450">These we drew back – trembling and panting with anxiety.</span>
   <span id="f000451">In an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000452">a treasure of incalculable value lay gleaming before us.</span>
   <span id="f000453">As the rays of the lanterns fell within the pit,</span>
   <span id="f000454">there flashed upwards a glow and a glare,</span>
   <span id="f000455">from a confused heap of gold and of jewels,</span>
   <span id="f000456">that absolutely dazzled our eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">I shall not pretend to describe the feelings with which I gazed.</span>
   <span id="f000458">Amazement was,</span>
   <span id="f000459">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000460">predominant.</span>
   <span id="f000461">Legrand appeared exhausted with excitement,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and spoke very few words.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Jupiter’s countenance wore,</span>
   <span id="f000464">for some minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000465">as deadly a pallor as it is possible,</span>
   <span id="f000466">in nature of things,</span>
   <span id="f000467">for any negro’s visage to assume.</span>
   <span id="f000468">He seemed stupified – thunderstricken.</span>
   <span id="f000469">Presently he fell upon his knees in the pit,</span>
   <span id="f000470">and,</span>
   <span id="f000471">burying his naked arms up to the elbows in gold,</span>
   <span id="f000472">let them there remain,</span>
   <span id="f000473">as if enjoying the luxury of a bath.</span>
   <span id="f000474">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000475">with a deep sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000476">he exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000477">as if in a soliloquy,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">“And dis all cum ob de goole-bug!</span>
   <span id="f000479">de putty goole bug!</span>
   <span id="f000480">de poor little goole-bug,</span>
   <span id="f000481">what I boosed in dat sabage kind ob style!</span>
   <span id="f000482">Aint you shamed ob yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000483">nigger?</span>
   <span id="f000484">– answer me dat!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000485">It became necessary,</span>
   <span id="f000486">at last,</span>
   <span id="f000487">that I should arouse both master and valet to the expediency of removing the treasure.</span>
   <span id="f000488">It was growing late,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and it behooved us to make exertion,</span>
   <span id="f000490">that we might get every thing housed before daylight.</span>
   <span id="f000491">It was difficult to say what should be done,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and much time was spent in deliberation – so confused were the ideas of all.</span>
   <span id="f000493">We,</span>
   <span id="f000494">finally,</span>
   <span id="f000495">lightened the box by removing two thirds of its contents,</span>
   <span id="f000496">when we were enabled,</span>
   <span id="f000497">with some trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000498">to raise it from the hole.</span>
   <span id="f000499">The articles taken out were deposited among the brambles,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and the dog left to guard them,</span>
   <span id="f000501">with strict orders from Jupiter neither,</span>
   <span id="f000502">upon any pretence,</span>
   <span id="f000503">to stir from the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000504">nor to open his mouth until our return.</span>
   <span id="f000505">We then hurriedly made for home with the chest;</span>
   <span id="f000506">reaching the hut in safety,</span>
   <span id="f000507">but after excessive toil,</span>
   <span id="f000508">at one o’clock in the morning.</span>
   <span id="f000509">Worn out as we were,</span>
   <span id="f000510">it was not in human nature to do more immediately.</span>
   <span id="f000511">We rested until two,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and had supper;</span>
   <span id="f000513">starting for the hills immediately afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000514">armed with three stout sacks,</span>
   <span id="f000515">which,</span>
   <span id="f000516">by good luck,</span>
   <span id="f000517">were upon the premises.</span>
   <span id="f000518">A little before four we arrived at the pit,</span>
   <span id="f000519">divided the remainder of the booty,</span>
   <span id="f000520">as equally as might be,</span>
   <span id="f000521">among us,</span>
   <span id="f000522">and,</span>
   <span id="f000523">leaving the holes unfilled,</span>
   <span id="f000524">again set out for the hut,</span>
   <span id="f000525">at which,</span>
   <span id="f000526">for the second time,</span>
   <span id="f000527">we deposited our golden burthens,</span>
   <span id="f000528">just as the first faint streaks of the dawn gleamed from over the tree-tops in the East.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">We were now thoroughly broken down;</span>
   <span id="f000530">but the intense excitement of the time denied us repose.</span>
   <span id="f000531">After an unquiet slumber of some three or four hours’ duration,</span>
   <span id="f000532">we arose,</span>
   <span id="f000533">as if by preconcert,</span>
   <span id="f000534">to make examination of our treasure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">The chest had been full to the brim,</span>
   <span id="f000536">and we spent the whole day,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and the greater part of the next night,</span>
   <span id="f000538">in a scrutiny of its contents.</span>
   <span id="f000539">There had been nothing like order or arrangement.</span>
   <span id="f000540">Every thing had been heaped in promiscuously.</span>
   <span id="f000541">Having assorted all with care,</span>
   <span id="f000542">we found ourselves possessed of even vaster wealth than we had at first supposed.</span>
   <span id="f000543">In coin there was rather more than four hundred and fifty thousand dollars – estimating the value of the pieces,</span>
   <span id="f000544">as accurately as we could,</span>
   <span id="f000545">by the tables of the period.</span>
   <span id="f000546">There was not a particle of silver.</span>
   <span id="f000547">All was gold of antique date and of great variety – French,</span>
   <span id="f000548">Spanish,</span>
   <span id="f000549">and German money,</span>
   <span id="f000550">with a few English guineas,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and some counters,</span>
   <span id="f000552">of which we had never seen specimens before.</span>
   <span id="f000553">There were several very large and heavy coins,</span>
   <span id="f000554">so worn that we could make nothing of their inscriptions.</span>
   <span id="f000555">There was no American money.</span>
   <span id="f000556">The value of the jewels we found more difficulty in estimating.</span>
   <span id="f000557">There were diamonds – some of them exceedingly large and fine – a hundred and ten in all,</span>
   <span id="f000558">and not one of them small;</span>
   <span id="f000559">eighteen rubies of remarkable brilliancy;</span>
   <span id="f000560">– three hundred and ten emeralds,</span>
   <span id="f000561">all very beautiful;</span>
   <span id="f000562">and twenty-one sapphires,</span>
   <span id="f000563">with an opal.</span>
   <span id="f000564">These stones had all been broken from their settings and thrown loose in the chest.</span>
   <span id="f000565">The settings themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000566">which we picked out from among the other gold,</span>
   <span id="f000567">appeared to have been beaten up with hammers,</span>
   <span id="f000568">as if to prevent identification.</span>
   <span id="f000569">Besides all this,</span>
   <span id="f000570">there was a vast quantity of solid gold ornaments;</span>
   <span id="f000571">– nearly two hundred massive finger and earrings;</span>
   <span id="f000572">– rich chains – thirty of these,</span>
   <span id="f000573">if I remember;</span>
   <span id="f000574">– eighty-three very large and heavy crucifixes;</span>
   <span id="f000575">– five gold censers of great value;</span>
   <span id="f000576">– a prodigious golden punch bowl,</span>
   <span id="f000577">ornamented with richly chased vine-leaves and Bacchanalian figures;</span>
   <span id="f000578">with two sword-handles exquisitely embossed,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and many other smaller articles which I cannot recollect.</span>
   <span id="f000580">The weight of these valuables exceeded three hundred and fifty pounds avoirdupois;</span>
   <span id="f000581">and in this estimate I have not included one hundred and ninety-seven superb gold watches;</span>
   <span id="f000582">three of the number being worth each five hundred dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000583">if one.</span>
   <span id="f000584">Many of them were very old,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and as time keepers valueless;</span>
   <span id="f000586">the works having suffered,</span>
   <span id="f000587">more or less,</span>
   <span id="f000588">from corrosion – but all were richly jewelled and in cases of great worth.</span>
   <span id="f000589">We estimated the entire contents of the chest,</span>
   <span id="f000590">that night,</span>
   <span id="f000591">at a million and a half of dollars;</span>
   <span id="f000592">and upon the subsequent disposal of the trinkets and jewels</span>
   <span id="f000593">(a few being retained for our own use),</span>
   <span id="f000594">it was found that we had greatly undervalued the treasure.</span>
   <span id="f000595">When,</span>
   <span id="f000596">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000597">we had concluded our examination,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and the intense excitement of the time had,</span>
   <span id="f000599">in some measure,</span>
   <span id="f000600">subsided,</span>
   <span id="f000601">Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000602">who saw that I was dying with impatience for a solution of this most extraordinary riddle,</span>
   <span id="f000603">entered into a full detail of all the circumstances connected with it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000604">“You remember;” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000605">“the night when I handed you the rough sketch I had made of the scarabæus.</span>
   <span id="f000606">You recollect also,</span>
   <span id="f000607">that I became quite vexed at you for insisting that my drawing resembled a death’s-head.</span>
   <span id="f000608">When you first made this assertion I thought you were jesting;</span>
   <span id="f000609">but afterwards I called to mind the peculiar spots on the back of the insect,</span>
   <span id="f000610">and admitted to myself that your remark had some little foundation in fact.</span>
   <span id="f000611">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000612">the sneer at my graphic powers irritated me – for I am considered a good artist – and,</span>
   <span id="f000613">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000614">when you handed me the scrap of parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000615">I was about to crumple it up and throw it angrily into the fire.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">“The scrap of paper,</span>
   <span id="f000617">you mean,” said I.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000618">No;</span>
   <span id="f000619">it had much of the appearance of paper,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and at first I supposed it to be such,</span>
   <span id="f000621">but when I came to draw upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000622">I discovered it,</span>
   <span id="f000623">at once,</span>
   <span id="f000624">to be a piece of very thin parchment.</span>
   <span id="f000625">It was quite dirty,</span>
   <span id="f000626">you remember.</span>
   <span id="f000627">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000628">as I was in the very act of crumpling it up,</span>
   <span id="f000629">my glance fell upon the sketch at which you had been looking,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and you may imagine my astonishment when I perceived,</span>
   <span id="f000631">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000632">the figure of a death’s-head just where,</span>
   <span id="f000633">it seemed to me,</span>
   <span id="f000634">I had made the drawing of the beetle.</span>
   <span id="f000635">For a moment I was too much amazed to think with accuracy.</span>
   <span id="f000636">I knew that my design was very different in detail from this – although there was a certain similarity in general outline.</span>
   <span id="f000637">Presently I took a candle,</span>
   <span id="f000638">and seating myself at the other end of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000639">proceeded to scrutinize the parchment more closely.</span>
   <span id="f000640">Upon turning it over,</span>
   <span id="f000641">I saw my own sketch upon the reverse,</span>
   <span id="f000642">just as I had made it.</span>
   <span id="f000643">My first idea,</span>
   <span id="f000644">now,</span>
   <span id="f000645">was mere surprise at the really remarkable similarity of outline – at the singular coincidence involved in the fact,</span>
   <span id="f000646">that unknown to me,</span>
   <span id="f000647">there should have been a skull upon the other side of the parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000648">immediately beneath my figure of the scarabæus,</span>
   <span id="f000649">and that this skull,</span>
   <span id="f000650">not only in outline,</span>
   <span id="f000651">but in size,</span>
   <span id="f000652">should so closely resemble my drawing.</span>
   <span id="f000653">I say the singularity of this coincidence absolutely stupified me for a time.</span>
   <span id="f000654">This is the usual effect of such coincidences.</span>
   <span id="f000655">The mind struggles to establish a connexion – a sequence of cause and effect – and,</span>
   <span id="f000656">being unable to do so,</span>
   <span id="f000657">suffers a species of temporary paralysis.</span>
   <span id="f000658">But,</span>
   <span id="f000659">when I recovered from this stupor,</span>
   <span id="f000660">there dawned upon me gradually a conviction which startled me even far more than the coincidence.</span>
   <span id="f000661">I began distinctly,</span>
   <span id="f000662">positively,</span>
   <span id="f000663">to remember that there had been no drawing upon the parchment when I made my sketch of the scarabæus.</span>
   <span id="f000664">I became perfectly certain of this;</span>
   <span id="f000665">for I recollected turning up first one side and then the other,</span>
   <span id="f000666">in search of the cleanest spot.</span>
   <span id="f000667">Had the skull been then there,</span>
   <span id="f000668">of course I could not have failed to notice it.</span>
   <span id="f000669">Here was indeed a mystery which I felt it impossible to explain;</span>
   <span id="f000670">but,</span>
   <span id="f000671">even at that early moment,</span>
   <span id="f000672">there seemed to glimmer,</span>
   <span id="f000673">faintly,</span>
   <span id="f000674">within the most remote and secret chambers of my intellect,</span>
   <span id="f000675">a glow-worm-like conception of that truth which last night’s adventure brought to so magnificent a demonstration.</span>
   <span id="f000676">I arose at once,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and putting the parchment securely away,</span>
   <span id="f000678">dismissed all farther reflection until I should be alone.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

