<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">When you had gone,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and when Jupiter was fast asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000004">I betook myself to a more methodical investigation of the affair.</span>
   <span id="f000005">In the first place I considered the manner in which the parchment had come into my possession.</span>
   <span id="f000006">The spot where we discovered the scarabaeus was on the coast of the main land,</span>
   <span id="f000007">about a mile eastward of the island,</span>
   <span id="f000008">and but a short distance above high water mark.</span>
   <span id="f000009">Upon my taking hold of it,</span>
   <span id="f000010">it gave me a sharp bite,</span>
   <span id="f000011">which caused me to let it drop.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000013">with his accustomed caution,</span>
   <span id="f000014">before seizing the insect,</span>
   <span id="f000015">which had flown towards him,</span>
   <span id="f000016">looked about him for a leaf,</span>
   <span id="f000017">or something of that nature,</span>
   <span id="f000018">by which to take hold of it.</span>
   <span id="f000019">It was at this moment that his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and mine also,</span>
   <span id="f000021">fell upon the scrap of parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000022">which I then supposed to be paper.</span>
   <span id="f000023">It was lying half buried in the sand,</span>
   <span id="f000024">a corner sticking up.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Near the spot where we found it,</span>
   <span id="f000026">I observed the remnants of the hull of what appeared to have been a ship’s long boat.</span>
   <span id="f000027">The wreck seemed to have been there for a very great while;</span>
   <span id="f000028">for the resemblance to boat timbers could scarcely be traced.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000029">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000030">Jupiter picked up the parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000031">wrapped the beetle in it,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and gave it to me.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Soon afterwards we turned to go home,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and on the way met Lieutenant G-.</span>
   <span id="f000035">I showed him the insect,</span>
   <span id="f000036">and he begged me to let him take it to the fort.</span>
   <span id="f000037">Upon my consenting,</span>
   <span id="f000038">he thrust it forthwith into his waistcoat pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000039">without the parchment in which it had been wrapped,</span>
   <span id="f000040">and which I had continued to hold in my hand during his inspection.</span>
   <span id="f000041">Perhaps he dreaded my changing my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000042">and thought it best to make sure of the prize at once – you know how enthusiastic he is on all subjects connected with Natural History.</span>
   <span id="f000043">At the same time,</span>
   <span id="f000044">without being conscious of it,</span>
   <span id="f000045">I must have deposited the parchment in my own pocket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">You remember that when I went to the table,</span>
   <span id="f000047">for the purpose of making a sketch of the beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000048">I found no paper where it was usually kept.</span>
   <span id="f000049">I looked in the drawer,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and found none there.</span>
   <span id="f000051">I searched my pockets,</span>
   <span id="f000052">hoping to find an old letter,</span>
   <span id="f000053">when my hand fell upon the parchment.</span>
   <span id="f000054">I thus detail the precise mode in which it came into my possession;</span>
   <span id="f000055">for the circumstances impressed me with peculiar force.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">No doubt you will think me fanciful – but I had already established a kind of connexion.</span>
   <span id="f000057">I had put together two links of a great chain.</span>
   <span id="f000058">There was a boat lying upon a sea-coast,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and not far from the boat was a parchment – not a paper – with a skull depicted upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000060">You will,</span>
   <span id="f000061">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000062">ask ’where is the connexion?’ I reply that the skull,</span>
   <span id="f000063">or death’s-head,</span>
   <span id="f000064">is the well-known emblem of the pirate.</span>
   <span id="f000065">The flag of the death’s head is hoisted in all engagements.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“I have said that the scrap was parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000067">and not paper.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Parchment is durable – almost imperishable.</span>
   <span id="f000069">Matters of little moment are rarely consigned to parchment;</span>
   <span id="f000070">since,</span>
   <span id="f000071">for the mere ordinary purposes of drawing or writing,</span>
   <span id="f000072">it is not nearly so well adapted as paper.</span>
   <span id="f000073">This reflection suggested some meaning – some relevancy – in the death’s-head.</span>
   <span id="f000074">I did not fail to observe,</span>
   <span id="f000075">also,</span>
   <span id="f000076">the form of the parchment.</span>
   <span id="f000077">Although one of its corners had been,</span>
   <span id="f000078">by some accident,</span>
   <span id="f000079">destroyed,</span>
   <span id="f000080">it could be seen that the original form was oblong.</span>
   <span id="f000081">It was just such a slip,</span>
   <span id="f000082">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000083">as might have been chosen for a memorandum – for a record of something to be long remembered and carefully preserved.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">“But,” I interposed,</span>
   <span id="f000085">“you say that the skull was not upon the parchment when you made the drawing of the beetle.</span>
   <span id="f000086">How then do you trace any connexion between the boat and the skull – since this latter,</span>
   <span id="f000087">according to your own admission,</span>
   <span id="f000088">must have been designed</span>
   <span id="f000089">(God only knows how or by whom)</span>
   <span id="f000090">at some period subsequent to your sketching the scarabæus?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000092">hereupon turns the whole mystery;</span>
   <span id="f000093">although the secret,</span>
   <span id="f000094">at this point,</span>
   <span id="f000095">I had comparatively little difficulty in solving.</span>
   <span id="f000096">My steps were sure,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and could afford but a single result.</span>
   <span id="f000098">I reasoned,</span>
   <span id="f000099">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000100">thus:</span>
   <span id="f000101">When I drew the scarabæus,</span>
   <span id="f000102">there was no skull apparent upon the parchment.</span>
   <span id="f000103">When I had completed the drawing I gave it to you,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and observed you narrowly until you returned it.</span>
   <span id="f000105">You,</span>
   <span id="f000106">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000107">did not design the skull,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and no one else was present to do it.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Then it was not done by human agency.</span>
   <span id="f000110">And nevertheless it was done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">At this stage of my reflections I endeavored to remember,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and did remember,</span>
   <span id="f000113">with entire distinctness,</span>
   <span id="f000114">every incident which occurred about the period in question.</span>
   <span id="f000115">The weather was chilly</span>
   <span id="f000116">(oh rare and happy accident!),</span>
   <span id="f000117">and a fire was blazing upon the hearth.</span>
   <span id="f000118">I was heated with exercise and sat near the table.</span>
   <span id="f000119">You,</span>
   <span id="f000120">however,</span>
   <span id="f000121">had drawn a chair close to the chimney.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Just as I placed the parchment in your hand,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and as you were in the act of inspecting it,</span>
   <span id="f000124">Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000125">the Newfoundland,</span>
   <span id="f000126">entered,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and leaped upon your shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000128">With your left hand you caressed him and kept him off,</span>
   <span id="f000129">while your right,</span>
   <span id="f000130">holding the parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000131">was permitted to fall listlessly between your knees,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and in close proximity to the fire.</span>
   <span id="f000133">At one moment I thought the blaze had caught it,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and was about to caution you,</span>
   <span id="f000135">but,</span>
   <span id="f000136">before I could speak,</span>
   <span id="f000137">you had withdrawn it,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and were engaged in its examination.</span>
   <span id="f000139">When I considered all these particulars,</span>
   <span id="f000140">I doubted not for a moment that heat had been the agent in bringing to light,</span>
   <span id="f000141">upon the parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000142">the skull which I saw designed upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000143">You are well aware that chemical preparations exist,</span>
   <span id="f000144">and have existed time out of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000145">by means of which it is possible to write upon either paper or vellum,</span>
   <span id="f000146">so that the characters shall become visible only when subjected to the action of fire.</span>
   <span id="f000147">Zaffre,</span>
   <span id="f000148">digested in aqua regia,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and diluted with four times its weight of water,</span>
   <span id="f000150">is sometimes employed;</span>
   <span id="f000151">a green tint results.</span>
   <span id="f000152">The regulus of cobalt,</span>
   <span id="f000153">dissolved in spirit of nitre,</span>
   <span id="f000154">gives a red.</span>
   <span id="f000155">These colors disappear at longer or shorter intervals after the material written upon cools,</span>
   <span id="f000156">but again become apparent upon the re-application of heat.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“I now scrutinized the death’s-head with care.</span>
   <span id="f000158">Its outer edges – the edges of the drawing nearest the edge of the vellum – were far more distinct than the others.</span>
   <span id="f000159">It was clear that the action of the caloric had been imperfect or unequal.</span>
   <span id="f000160">I immediately kindled a fire,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and subjected every portion of the parchment to a glowing heat.</span>
   <span id="f000162">At first,</span>
   <span id="f000163">the only effect was the strengthening of the faint lines in the skull;</span>
   <span id="f000164">but,</span>
   <span id="f000165">upon persevering in the experiment,</span>
   <span id="f000166">there became visible,</span>
   <span id="f000167">at the corner of the slip,</span>
   <span id="f000168">diagonally opposite to the spot in which the death’s-head was delineated,</span>
   <span id="f000169">the figure of what I at first supposed to be a goat.</span>
   <span id="f000170">A closer scrutiny,</span>
   <span id="f000171">however,</span>
   <span id="f000172">satisfied me that it was intended for a kid.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000174">ha!” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000175">“to be sure I have no right to laugh at you – a million and a half of money is too serious a matter for mirth – but you are not about to establish a third link in your chain – you will not find any especial connexion between your pirates and a goat – pirates,</span>
   <span id="f000176">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000177">have nothing to do with goats;</span>
   <span id="f000178">they appertain to the farming interest.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">“But I have just said that the figure was not that of a goat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000181">a kid then – pretty much the same thing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000182">“Pretty much,</span>
   <span id="f000183">but not altogether,” said Legrand.</span>
   <span id="f000184">“You may have heard of one Captain Kidd.</span>
   <span id="f000185">I at once looked upon the figure of the animal as a kind of punning or hieroglyphical signature.</span>
   <span id="f000186">I say signature;</span>
   <span id="f000187">because its position upon the vellum suggested this idea.</span>
   <span id="f000188">The death’s-head at the corner diagonally opposite,</span>
   <span id="f000189">had,</span>
   <span id="f000190">in the same manner,</span>
   <span id="f000191">the air of a stamp,</span>
   <span id="f000192">or seal.</span>
   <span id="f000193">But I was sorely put out by the absence of all else – of the body to my imagined instrument – of the text for my context.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“I presume you expected to find a letter between the stamp and the signature.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Something of that kind.</span>
   <span id="f000196">The fact is,</span>
   <span id="f000197">I felt irresistibly impressed with a presentiment of some vast good fortune impending.</span>
   <span id="f000198">I can scarcely say why.</span>
   <span id="f000199">Perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000200">after all,</span>
   <span id="f000201">it was rather a desire than an actual belief;</span>
   <span id="f000202">– but do you know that Jupiter’s silly words,</span>
   <span id="f000203">about the bug being of solid gold,</span>
   <span id="f000204">had a remarkable effect upon my fancy?</span>
   <span id="f000205">And then the series of accidents and coincidences – these were so very extraordinary.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Do you observe how mere an accident it was that these events should have occurred upon the sole day of all the year in which it has been,</span>
   <span id="f000207">or may be,</span>
   <span id="f000208">sufficiently cool for fire,</span>
   <span id="f000209">and that without the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000210">or without the intervention of the dog at the precise moment in which he appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000211">I should never have become aware of the death’s-head,</span>
   <span id="f000212">and so never the possessor of the treasure?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“But proceed – I am all impatience.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“Well;</span>
   <span id="f000215">you have heard,</span>
   <span id="f000216">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000217">the many stories current – the thousand vague rumors afloat about money buried,</span>
   <span id="f000218">somewhere upon the Atlantic coast,</span>
   <span id="f000219">by Kidd and his associates.</span>
   <span id="f000220">These rumors must have had some foundation in fact.</span>
   <span id="f000221">And that the rumors have existed so long and so continuous,</span>
   <span id="f000222">could have resulted,</span>
   <span id="f000223">it appeared to me,</span>
   <span id="f000224">only from the circumstance of the buried treasure still remaining entombed.</span>
   <span id="f000225">Had Kidd concealed his plunder for a time,</span>
   <span id="f000226">and afterwards reclaimed it,</span>
   <span id="f000227">the rumors would scarcely have reached us in their present unvarying form.</span>
   <span id="f000228">You will observe that the stories told are all about money-seekers,</span>
   <span id="f000229">not about money-finders.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Had the pirate recovered his money,</span>
   <span id="f000231">there the affair would have dropped.</span>
   <span id="f000232">It seemed to me that some accident – say the loss of a memorandum indicating its locality – had deprived him of the means of recovering it,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and that this accident had become known to his followers,</span>
   <span id="f000234">who otherwise might never have heard that treasure had been concealed at all,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and who,</span>
   <span id="f000236">busying themselves in vain,</span>
   <span id="f000237">because unguided attempts,</span>
   <span id="f000238">to regain it,</span>
   <span id="f000239">had given first birth,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and then universal currency,</span>
   <span id="f000241">to the reports which are now so common.</span>
   <span id="f000242">Have you ever heard of any important treasure being unearthed along the coast?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">“Never.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“But that Kidd’s accumulations were immense,</span>
   <span id="f000245">is well known.</span>
   <span id="f000246">I took it for granted,</span>
   <span id="f000247">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000248">that the earth still held them;</span>
   <span id="f000249">and you will scarcely be surprised when I tell you that I felt a hope,</span>
   <span id="f000250">nearly amounting to certainty,</span>
   <span id="f000251">that the parchment so strangely found,</span>
   <span id="f000252">involved a lost record of the place of deposit.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">“But how did you proceed?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“I held the vellum again to the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000255">after increasing the heat;</span>
   <span id="f000256">but nothing appeared.</span>
   <span id="f000257">I now thought it possible that the coating of dirt might have something to do with the failure;</span>
   <span id="f000258">so I carefully rinsed the parchment by pouring warm water over it,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and,</span>
   <span id="f000260">having done this,</span>
   <span id="f000261">I placed it in a tin pan,</span>
   <span id="f000262">with the skull downwards,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and put the pan upon a furnace of lighted charcoal.</span>
   <span id="f000264">In a few minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000265">the pan having become thoroughly heated,</span>
   <span id="f000266">I removed the slip,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and,</span>
   <span id="f000268">to my inexpressible joy,</span>
   <span id="f000269">found it spotted,</span>
   <span id="f000270">in several places,</span>
   <span id="f000271">with what appeared to be figures arranged in lines.</span>
   <span id="f000272">Again I placed it in the pan,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and suffered it to remain another minute.</span>
   <span id="f000274">Upon taking it off,</span>
   <span id="f000275">the whole was just as you see it now.” Here Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000276">having re-heated the parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000277">submitted it to my inspection.</span>
   <span id="f000278">The following characters were rudely traced,</span>
   <span id="f000279">in a red tint,</span>
   <span id="f000280">between the death’s-head and the goat:</span></p>
   <blockquote class="nonarr"><p class="nonarr">53‡‡†305))6*;4826)4‡.)4‡);806*;48†8<br />¶60))85;;]8*;:‡*8†83(88)5*†;46(;88*96<br />*?;8)*‡(;485);5*†2:*‡(;4956*2(5*—4)8<br />¶8*;4069285);)6†8)4‡‡;1(‡9;48081;8:8‡<br />1;48†85;4)485†528806*81(‡9;48;(88;4<br />(‡?34;48)4‡;161;:188;‡?;</p></blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000281">“But,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000282">returning him the slip,</span>
   <span id="f000283">“I am as much in the dark as ever.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Were all the jewels of Golconda awaiting me upon my solution of this enigma,</span>
   <span id="f000285">I am quite sure that I should be unable to earn them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">“And yet,” said Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000287">“the solution is by no means so difficult as you might be lead to imagine from the first hasty inspection of the characters.</span>
   <span id="f000288">These characters,</span>
   <span id="f000289">as any one might readily guess,</span>
   <span id="f000290">form a cipher – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000291">they convey a meaning;</span>
   <span id="f000292">but then,</span>
   <span id="f000293">from what is known of Kidd,</span>
   <span id="f000294">I could not suppose him capable of constructing any of the more abstruse cryptographs.</span>
   <span id="f000295">I made up my mind,</span>
   <span id="f000296">at once,</span>
   <span id="f000297">that this was of a simple species – such,</span>
   <span id="f000298">however,</span>
   <span id="f000299">as would appear,</span>
   <span id="f000300">to the crude intellect of the sailor,</span>
   <span id="f000301">absolutely insoluble without the key.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000302">“And you really solved it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">Readily;</span>
   <span id="f000304">I have solved others of an abstruseness ten thousand times greater.</span>
   <span id="f000305">Circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and a certain bias of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000307">have led me to take interest in such riddles,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and it may well be doubted whether human ingenuity can construct an enigma of the kind which human ingenuity may not,</span>
   <span id="f000309">by proper application,</span>
   <span id="f000310">resolve.</span>
   <span id="f000311">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000312">having once established connected and legible characters,</span>
   <span id="f000313">I scarcely gave a thought to the mere difficulty of developing their import.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">In the present case – indeed in all cases of secret writing – the first question regards the language of the cipher;</span>
   <span id="f000315">for the principles of solution,</span>
   <span id="f000316">so far,</span>
   <span id="f000317">especially,</span>
   <span id="f000318">as the more simple ciphers are concerned,</span>
   <span id="f000319">depend upon,</span>
   <span id="f000320">and are varied by,</span>
   <span id="f000321">the genius of the particular idiom.</span>
   <span id="f000322">In general,</span>
   <span id="f000323">there is no alternative but experiment</span>
   <span id="f000324">(directed by probabilities)</span>
   <span id="f000325">of every tongue known to him who attempts the solution,</span>
   <span id="f000326">until the true one be attained.</span>
   <span id="f000327">But,</span>
   <span id="f000328">with the cipher now before us,</span>
   <span id="f000329">all difficulty was removed by the signature.</span>
   <span id="f000330">The pun upon the word ’Kidd’ is appreciable in no other language than the English.</span>
   <span id="f000331">But for this consideration I should have begun my attempts with the Spanish and French,</span>
   <span id="f000332">as the tongues in which a secret of this kind would most naturally have been written by a pirate of the Spanish main.</span>
   <span id="f000333">As it was,</span>
   <span id="f000334">I assumed the cryptograph to be English.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">You observe there are no divisions between the words.</span>
   <span id="f000336">Had there been divisions,</span>
   <span id="f000337">the task would have been comparatively easy.</span>
   <span id="f000338">In such case I should have commenced with a collation and analysis of the shorter words,</span>
   <span id="f000339">and,</span>
   <span id="f000340">had a word of a single letter occurred,</span>
   <span id="f000341">as is most likely,</span>
   <span id="f000342">(a or I,</span>
   <span id="f000343">for example,)</span>
   <span id="f000344">I should have considered the solution as assured.</span>
   <span id="f000345">But,</span>
   <span id="f000346">there being no division,</span>
   <span id="f000347">my first step was to ascertain the predominant letters,</span>
   <span id="f000348">as well as the least frequent.</span>
   <span id="f000349">Counting all,</span>
   <span id="f000350">I constructed a table,</span>
   <span id="f000351">thus:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000352">Of the character 8 there are 33.<br /></span>
   <span id="f000353">26 ;<br /></span>
   <span id="f000354">19 4<br /></span>
   <span id="f000355">16 *<br /></span>
   <span id="f000356">13 	‡ )<br /></span>
   <span id="f000357">14 5<br /></span>
   <span id="f000358">11 6<br /></span>
   <span id="f000359">8 † 1<br /></span>
   <span id="f000360">6 0<br /></span>
   <span id="f000361">5 9 2<br /></span>
   <span id="f000362">4 :</span>
   <span id="f000363">3<br /></span>
   <span id="f000364">3 ?<br /></span>
   <span id="f000365">2 ¶<br /></span>
   <span id="f000366">1 -.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000367">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000368">in English,</span>
   <span id="f000369">the letter which most frequently occurs is e.</span>
   <span id="f000370">Afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000371">succession runs thus:</span>
   <span id="f000372"><em>a o i d h n r s t u y c f g l m w b k p q x z</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000373"><em>E</em> predominates so remarkably that an individual sentence of any length is rarely seen,</span>
   <span id="f000374">in which it is not the prevailing character.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000375">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000376">then,</span>
   <span id="f000377">we leave,</span>
   <span id="f000378">in the very beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000379">the groundwork for something more than a mere guess.</span>
   <span id="f000380">The general use which may be made of the table is obvious – but,</span>
   <span id="f000381">in this particular cipher,</span>
   <span id="f000382">we shall only very partially require its aid.</span>
   <span id="f000383">As our predominant character is 8,</span>
   <span id="f000384">we will commence by assuming it as the <em>e</em> of the natural alphabet.</span>
   <span id="f000385">To verify the supposition,</span>
   <span id="f000386">let us observe if the 8 be seen often in couples – for <em>e</em> is doubled with great frequency in English – in such words,</span>
   <span id="f000387">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000388">as ’meet,’ ’fleet,’ ’speed,’ ’seen,’ been,’ ’agree,’ etc.</span>
   <span id="f000389">In the present instance we see it doubled no less than five times,</span>
   <span id="f000390">although the cryptograph is brief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">Let us assume 8,</span>
   <span id="f000392">then,</span>
   <span id="f000393">as <em>e</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000394">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000395">of all <em>words</em> in the language,</span>
   <span id="f000396">’the’ is most usual;</span>
   <span id="f000397">let us see,</span>
   <span id="f000398">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000399">whether there are not repetitions of any three characters,</span>
   <span id="f000400">in the same order of collocation,</span>
   <span id="f000401">the last of them being 8.</span>
   <span id="f000402">If we discover repetitions of such letters,</span>
   <span id="f000403">so arranged,</span>
   <span id="f000404">they will most probably represent the word ’the.’ Upon inspection,</span>
   <span id="f000405">we find no less than seven such arrangements,</span>
   <span id="f000406">the characters being;48.</span>
   <span id="f000407">We may,</span>
   <span id="f000408">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000409">assume that;</span>
   <span id="f000410">represents <em>t</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000411">4 represents <em>h</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and 8 represents <em>e</em> – the last being now well confirmed.</span>
   <span id="f000413">Thus a great step has been taken.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">But,</span>
   <span id="f000415">having established a single word,</span>
   <span id="f000416">we are enabled to establish a vastly important point;</span>
   <span id="f000417">that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000418">several commencements and terminations of other words.</span>
   <span id="f000419">Let us refer,</span>
   <span id="f000420">for example,</span>
   <span id="f000421">to the last instance but one,</span>
   <span id="f000422">in which the combination;48 occurs – not far from the end of the cipher.</span>
   <span id="f000423">We know that the;</span>
   <span id="f000424">immediately ensuing is the commencement of a word,</span>
   <span id="f000425">and,</span>
   <span id="f000426">of the six characters succeeding this ’the,’ we are cognizant of no less than five.</span>
   <span id="f000427">Let us set these characters down,</span>
   <span id="f000428">thus,</span>
   <span id="f000429">by the letters we know them to represent,</span>
   <span id="f000430">leaving a space for the unknown –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000431">t eeth.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000432">Here we are enabled,</span>
   <span id="f000433">at once,</span>
   <span id="f000434">to discard the ’th,’ as forming no portion of the word commencing with the first t;</span>
   <span id="f000435">since,</span>
   <span id="f000436">by experiment of the entire alphabet for a letter adapted to the vacancy,</span>
   <span id="f000437">we perceive that no word can be formed of which this <em>th</em> can be a part.</span>
   <span id="f000438">We are thus narrowed into</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000439">t ee,</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000440">and,</span>
   <span id="f000441">going through the alphabet,</span>
   <span id="f000442">if necessary,</span>
   <span id="f000443">as before,</span>
   <span id="f000444">we arrive at the word ’tree,’ as the sole possible reading.</span>
   <span id="f000445">We thus gain another letter,</span>
   <span id="f000446"><em>r</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000447">represented by</span>
   <span id="f000448">(,</span>
   <span id="f000449">with the words ’the tree’ in juxtaposition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000450">Looking beyond these words,</span>
   <span id="f000451">for a short distance,</span>
   <span id="f000452">we again see the combination;48,</span>
   <span id="f000453">and employ it by way of <em>termination</em> to what immediately precedes.</span>
   <span id="f000454">We have thus this arrangement:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000455">the tree;4</span>
   <span id="f000456">(‡?34 the,</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000457">or,</span>
   <span id="f000458">substituting the natural letters,</span>
   <span id="f000459">where known,</span>
   <span id="f000460">it reads thus:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000461">the tree thr‡?3h the.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000462">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000463">if,</span>
   <span id="f000464">in place of the unknown characters,</span>
   <span id="f000465">we leave blank spaces,</span>
   <span id="f000466">or substitute dots,</span>
   <span id="f000467">we read thus:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000468">the tree thr…</span>
   <span id="f000469">h the,</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000470">when the word ’<em>through</em>’ makes itself evident at once.</span>
   <span id="f000471">But this discovery gives us three new letters,</span>
   <span id="f000472"><em>o</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000473"><em>u</em> and <em>g</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000474">represented by ‡?</span>
   <span id="f000475">and 3.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">Looking now,</span>
   <span id="f000477">narrowly,</span>
   <span id="f000478">through the cipher for combinations of known characters,</span>
   <span id="f000479">we find,</span>
   <span id="f000480">not very far from the beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000481">this arrangement,</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000482">83</span>
   <span id="f000483">(88,</span>
   <span id="f000484">or egree,</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000485">which,</span>
   <span id="f000486">plainly,</span>
   <span id="f000487">is the conclusion of the word ’degree,’ and gives us another letter,</span>
   <span id="f000488"><em>d</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000489">represented by †.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">Four letters beyond the word ’degree,’ we perceive the combination</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000491">;46</span>
   <span id="f000492">(;88*.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000493">Translating the known characters,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and representing the unknown by dots,</span>
   <span id="f000495">as before,</span>
   <span id="f000496">we read thus:</span>
   <span id="f000497">th rtee.</span>
   <span id="f000498">an arrangement immediately suggestive of the word ’thirteen,’ and again furnishing us with two new characters,</span>
   <span id="f000499"><em>i</em> and <em>n</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000500">represented by 6 and *.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000501">Referring,</span>
   <span id="f000502">now,</span>
   <span id="f000503">to the beginning of the cryptograph,</span>
   <span id="f000504">we find the combination,</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000505">53‡‡†.</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000506">Translating,</span>
   <span id="f000507">as before,</span>
   <span id="f000508">we obtain</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000509">good,</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000510">which assures us that the first letter is <em>A</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and that the first two words are ’A good.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000512">It is now time that we arrange our key,</span>
   <span id="f000513">as far as discovered,</span>
   <span id="f000514">in a tabular form,</span>
   <span id="f000515">to avoid confusion.</span>
   <span id="f000516">It will stand thus:</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000517">5 represents a<br /></span>
   <span id="f000518">†	represents d<br /></span>
   <span id="f000519">8 represents e<br /></span>
   <span id="f000520">3 represents g<br /></span>
   <span id="f000521">4 represents h<br /></span>
   <span id="f000522">6 represents i<br /></span>
   <span id="f000523">* represents n<br /></span>
   <span id="f000524">‡	represents o<br /></span>
   <span id="f000525">( represents r<br /></span>
   <span id="f000526">;</span>
   <span id="f000527">represents t</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000528">We have,</span>
   <span id="f000529">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000530">no less than ten of the most important letters represented,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and it will be unnecessary to proceed with the details of the solution.</span>
   <span id="f000532">I have said enough to convince you that ciphers of this nature are readily soluble,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and to give you some insight into the rationale of their development.</span>
   <span id="f000534">But be assured that the specimen before us appertains to the very simplest species of cryptograph.</span>
   <span id="f000535">It now only remains to give you the full translation of the characters upon the parchment,</span>
   <span id="f000536">as unriddled.</span>
   <span id="f000537">Here it is:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000538">“’<em>A good glass in the bishop’s hostel in the devil’s seat forty-one degrees and thirteen minutes northeast and by north main branch seventh limb east side shoot from the left eye of the death’s-head a bee line from the tree through the shot fifty feet out</em>.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">“But,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000540">“the enigma seems still in as bad a condition as ever.</span>
   <span id="f000541">How is it possible to extort a meaning from all this jargon about ’devil’s seats,’ ’death’s heads,’ and ’bishop’s hotels?’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">“I confess,” replied Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000543">“that the matter still wears a serious aspect,</span>
   <span id="f000544">when regarded with a casual glance.</span>
   <span id="f000545">My first endeavor was to divide the sentence into the natural division intended by the cryptographist.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“You mean,</span>
   <span id="f000547">to punctuate it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">“Something of that kind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“But how was it possible to effect this?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000550">“I reflected that it had been a point with the writer to run his words together without division,</span>
   <span id="f000551">so as to increase the difficulty of solution.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Now,</span>
   <span id="f000553">a not over-acute man,</span>
   <span id="f000554">in pursuing such an object would be nearly certain to overdo the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000555">When,</span>
   <span id="f000556">in the course of his composition,</span>
   <span id="f000557">he arrived at a break in his subject which would naturally require a pause,</span>
   <span id="f000558">or a point,</span>
   <span id="f000559">he would be exceedingly apt to run his characters,</span>
   <span id="f000560">at this place,</span>
   <span id="f000561">more than usually close together.</span>
   <span id="f000562">If you will observe the MS.,</span>
   <span id="f000563">in the present instance,</span>
   <span id="f000564">you will easily detect five such cases of unusual crowding.</span>
   <span id="f000565">Acting upon this hint,</span>
   <span id="f000566">I made the division thus:</span>
   <span id="f000567">’A good glass in the Bishop’s hostel in the Devil’s seat – forty-one degrees and thirteen minutes – northeast and by north – main branch seventh limb east side – shoot from the left eye of the death’s-head – a bee-line from the tree through the shot fifty feet out.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">“Even this division,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000569">“leaves me still in the dark.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000570">“It left me also in the dark,” replied Legrand,</span>
   <span id="f000571">"for a few days;</span>
   <span id="f000572">during which I made diligent inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000573">in the neighborhood of Sullivan’s Island,</span>
   <span id="f000574">for any building which went by the name of the ’Bishop’s Hotel;’ for,</span>
   <span id="f000575">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000576">I dropped the obsolete word ’hostel.’ Gaining no information on the subject,</span>
   <span id="f000577">I was on the point of extending my sphere of search,</span>
   <span id="f000578">and proceeding in a more systematic manner,</span>
   <span id="f000579">when,</span>
   <span id="f000580">one morning,</span>
   <span id="f000581">it entered into my head,</span>
   <span id="f000582">quite suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000583">that this ’Bishop’s Hostel’ might have some reference to an old family,</span>
   <span id="f000584">of the name of Bessop,</span>
   <span id="f000585">which,</span>
   <span id="f000586">time out of mind,</span>
   <span id="f000587">had held possession of an ancient manor-house,</span>
   <span id="f000588">about four miles to the northward of the Island.</span>
   <span id="f000589">I accordingly went over to the plantation,</span>
   <span id="f000590">and re-instituted my inquiries among the older negroes of the place.</span>
   <span id="f000591">At length one of the most aged of the women said that she had heard of such a place as Bessop’s Castle,</span>
   <span id="f000592">and thought that she could guide me to it,</span>
   <span id="f000593">but that it was not a castle nor a tavern,</span>
   <span id="f000594">but a high rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">I offered to pay her well for her trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and,</span>
   <span id="f000597">after some demur,</span>
   <span id="f000598">she consented to accompany me to the spot.</span>
   <span id="f000599">We found it without much difficulty,</span>
   <span id="f000600">when,</span>
   <span id="f000601">dismissing her,</span>
   <span id="f000602">I proceeded to examine the place.</span>
   <span id="f000603">The ’castle’ consisted of an irregular assemblage of cliffs and rocks – one of the latter being quite remarkable for its height as well as for its insulated and artificial appearance I clambered to its apex,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and then felt much at a loss as to what should be next done.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000605">While I was busied in reflection,</span>
   <span id="f000606">my eyes fell upon a narrow ledge in the eastern face of the rock,</span>
   <span id="f000607">perhaps a yard below the summit upon which I stood.</span>
   <span id="f000608">This ledge projected about eighteen inches,</span>
   <span id="f000609">and was not more than a foot wide,</span>
   <span id="f000610">while a niche in the cliff just above it,</span>
   <span id="f000611">gave it a rude resemblance to one of the hollow-backed chairs used by our ancestors.</span>
   <span id="f000612">I made no doubt that here was the ’devil’s seat’ alluded to in the MS.,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and now I seemed to grasp the full secret of the riddle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000614">“The ’good glass,’ I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000615">could have reference to nothing but a telescope;</span>
   <span id="f000616">for the word ’glass’ is rarely employed in any other sense by seamen.</span>
   <span id="f000617">Now here,</span>
   <span id="f000618">I at once saw,</span>
   <span id="f000619">was a telescope to be used,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and a definite point of view,</span>
   <span id="f000621">admitting no variation,</span>
   <span id="f000622">from which to use it.</span>
   <span id="f000623">Nor did I hesitate to believe that the phrases,</span>
   <span id="f000624">”forty-one degrees and thirteen minutes,’ and ’northeast and by north,’ were intended as directions for the levelling of the glass.</span>
   <span id="f000625">Greatly excited by these discoveries,</span>
   <span id="f000626">I hurried home,</span>
   <span id="f000627">procured a telescope,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and returned to the rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">I let myself down to the ledge,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and found that it was impossible to retain a seat upon it except in one particular position.</span>
   <span id="f000631">This fact confirmed my preconceived idea.</span>
   <span id="f000632">I proceeded to use the glass.</span>
   <span id="f000633">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000634">the ’forty-one degrees and thirteen minutes’ could allude to nothing but elevation above the visible horizon,</span>
   <span id="f000635">since the horizontal direction was clearly indicated by the words,</span>
   <span id="f000636">’northeast and by north.’ This latter direction I at once established by means of a pocket-compass;</span>
   <span id="f000637">then,</span>
   <span id="f000638">pointing the glass as nearly at an angle of forty-one degrees of elevation as I could do it by guess,</span>
   <span id="f000639">I moved it cautiously up or down,</span>
   <span id="f000640">until my attention was arrested by a circular rift or opening in the foliage of a large tree that overtopped its fellows in the distance.</span>
   <span id="f000641">In the centre of this rift I perceived a white spot,</span>
   <span id="f000642">but could not,</span>
   <span id="f000643">at first,</span>
   <span id="f000644">distinguish what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000645">Adjusting the focus of the telescope,</span>
   <span id="f000646">I again looked,</span>
   <span id="f000647">and now made it out to be a human skull.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000648">“Upon this discovery I was so sanguine as to consider the enigma solved;</span>
   <span id="f000649">for the phrase ’main branch,</span>
   <span id="f000650">seventh limb,</span>
   <span id="f000651">east side,’ could refer only to the position of the skull upon the tree,</span>
   <span id="f000652">while ’shoot from the left eye of the death’s head’ admitted,</span>
   <span id="f000653">also,</span>
   <span id="f000654">of but one interpretation,</span>
   <span id="f000655">in regard to a search for buried treasure.</span>
   <span id="f000656">I perceived that the design was to drop a bullet from the left eye of the skull,</span>
   <span id="f000657">and that a bee-line,</span>
   <span id="f000658">or,</span>
   <span id="f000659">in other words,</span>
   <span id="f000660">a straight line,</span>
   <span id="f000661">drawn from the nearest point of the trunk through ’the shot,’</span>
   <span id="f000662">(or the spot where the bullet fell,)</span>
   <span id="f000663">and thence extended to a distance of fifty feet,</span>
   <span id="f000664">would indicate a definite point – and beneath this point I thought it at least possible that a deposit of value lay concealed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">“All this,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000666">“is exceedingly clear,</span>
   <span id="f000667">and,</span>
   <span id="f000668">although ingenious,</span>
   <span id="f000669">still simple and explicit.</span>
   <span id="f000670">When you left the Bishop’s Hotel,</span>
   <span id="f000671">what then?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000672">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000673">having carefully taken the bearings of the tree,</span>
   <span id="f000674">I turned homewards.</span>
   <span id="f000675">The instant that I left ’the devil’s seat,’ however,</span>
   <span id="f000676">the circular rift vanished;</span>
   <span id="f000677">nor could I get a glimpse of it afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000678">turn as I would.</span>
   <span id="f000679">What seems to me the chief ingenuity in this whole business,</span>
   <span id="f000680">is the fact</span>
   <span id="f000681">(for repeated experiment has convinced me it is a fact)</span>
   <span id="f000682">that the circular opening in question is visible from no other attainable point of view than that afforded by the narrow ledge upon the face of the rock.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000683">“In this expedition to the ’Bishop’s Hotel’ I had been attended by Jupiter,</span>
   <span id="f000684">who had,</span>
   <span id="f000685">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000686">observed,</span>
   <span id="f000687">for some weeks past,</span>
   <span id="f000688">the abstraction of my demeanor,</span>
   <span id="f000689">and took especial care not to leave me alone.</span>
   <span id="f000690">But,</span>
   <span id="f000691">on the next day,</span>
   <span id="f000692">getting up very early,</span>
   <span id="f000693">I contrived to give him the slip,</span>
   <span id="f000694">and went into the hills in search of the tree.</span>
   <span id="f000695">After much toil I found it.</span>
   <span id="f000696">When I came home at night my valet proposed to give me a flogging.</span>
   <span id="f000697">With the rest of the adventure I believe you are as well acquainted as myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000698">“I suppose,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000699">“you missed the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000700">in the first attempt at digging,</span>
   <span id="f000701">through Jupiter’s stupidity in letting the bug fall through the right instead of through the left eye of the skull.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000702">“Precisely.</span>
   <span id="f000703">This mistake made a difference of about two inches and a half in the ’shot’ – that is to say,</span>
   <span id="f000704">in the position of the peg nearest the tree;</span>
   <span id="f000705">and had the treasure been beneath the ’shot,’ the error would have been of little moment;</span>
   <span id="f000706">but ’the shot,’ together with the nearest point of the tree,</span>
   <span id="f000707">were merely two points for the establishment of a line of direction;</span>
   <span id="f000708">of course the error,</span>
   <span id="f000709">however trivial in the beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000710">increased as we proceeded with the line,</span>
   <span id="f000711">and by the time we had gone fifty feet,</span>
   <span id="f000712">threw us quite off the scent.</span>
   <span id="f000713">But for my deep-seated impressions that treasure was here somewhere actually buried,</span>
   <span id="f000714">we might have had all our labor in vain.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000715">“But your grandiloquence,</span>
   <span id="f000716">and your conduct in swinging the beetle – how excessively odd!</span>
   <span id="f000717">I was sure you were mad.</span>
   <span id="f000718">And why did you insist upon letting fall the bug,</span>
   <span id="f000719">instead of a bullet,</span>
   <span id="f000720">from the skull?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000721">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000722">to be frank,</span>
   <span id="f000723">I felt somewhat annoyed by your evident suspicions touching my sanity,</span>
   <span id="f000724">and so resolved to punish you quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000725">in my own way,</span>
   <span id="f000726">by a little bit of sober mystification.</span>
   <span id="f000727">For this reason I swung the beetle,</span>
   <span id="f000728">and for this reason I let it fall it from the tree.</span>
   <span id="f000729">An observation of yours about its great weight suggested the latter idea.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000730">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000731">I perceive;</span>
   <span id="f000732">and now there is only one point which puzzles me.</span>
   <span id="f000733">What are we to make of the skeletons found in the hole?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000734">“That is a question I am no more able to answer than yourself.</span>
   <span id="f000735">There seems,</span>
   <span id="f000736">however,</span>
   <span id="f000737">only one plausible way of accounting for them – and yet it is dreadful to believe in such atrocity as my suggestion would imply.</span>
   <span id="f000738">It is clear that Kidd – if Kidd indeed secreted this treasure,</span>
   <span id="f000739">which I doubt not – it is clear that he must have had assistance in the labor.</span>
   <span id="f000740">But this labor concluded,</span>
   <span id="f000741">he may have thought it expedient to remove all participants in his secret.</span>
   <span id="f000742">Perhaps a couple of blows with a mattock were sufficient,</span>
   <span id="f000743">while his coadjutors were busy in the pit;</span>
   <span id="f000744">perhaps it required a dozen – who shall tell?”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

