<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Five Beloved Stories</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />O. Henry</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Mammon and the Archer</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">Old Anthony Rockwall,</span>
   <span id="f000009">retired manufacturer and proprietor of Rockwall’s Eureka Soap,</span>
   <span id="f000010">looked out the library window of his Fifth Avenue mansion and grinned.</span>
   <span id="f000011">His neighbour to the right – the aristocratic clubman,</span>
   <span id="f000012">G.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Van Schuylight Suffolk-Jones – came out to his waiting motor-car,</span>
   <span id="f000014">wrinkling a contumelious nostril,</span>
   <span id="f000015">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000016">at the Italian renaissance sculpture of the soap palace’s front elevation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">“Stuck-up old statuette of nothing doing!” commented the ex-Soap King.</span>
   <span id="f000018">“The Eden Musee’ll get that old frozen Nesselrode yet if he don’t watch out.</span>
   <span id="f000019">I’ll have this house painted red,</span>
   <span id="f000020">white,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and blue next summer and see if that’ll make his Dutch nose turn up any higher.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">And then Anthony Rockwall,</span>
   <span id="f000023">who never cared for bells,</span>
   <span id="f000024">went to the door of his library and shouted “Mike!” in the same voice that had once chipped off pieces of the welkin on the Kansas prairies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">“Tell my son,” said Anthony to the answering menial,</span>
   <span id="f000026">“to come in here before he leaves the house.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">When young Rockwall entered the library the old man laid aside his newspaper,</span>
   <span id="f000028">looked at him with a kindly grimness on his big,</span>
   <span id="f000029">smooth,</span>
   <span id="f000030">ruddy countenance,</span>
   <span id="f000031">rumpled his mop of white hair with one hand and rattled the keys in his pocket with the other.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">“Richard,” said Anthony Rockwall,</span>
   <span id="f000033">“what do you pay for the soap that you use?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">Richard,</span>
   <span id="f000035">only six months home from college,</span>
   <span id="f000036">was startled a little.</span>
   <span id="f000037">He had not yet taken the measure of this sire of his,</span>
   <span id="f000038">who was as full of unexpectednesses as a girl at her first party.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">“Six dollars a dozen,</span>
   <span id="f000040">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000041">dad.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000042">“And your clothes?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“I suppose about sixty dollars,</span>
   <span id="f000044">as a rule.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">“You’re a gentleman,” said Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000046">decidedly.</span>
   <span id="f000047">“I’ve heard of these young bloods spending $24 a dozen for soap,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and going over the hundred mark for clothes.</span>
   <span id="f000049">You’ve got as much money to waste as any of ’em,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and yet you stick to what’s decent and moderate.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Now I use the old Eureka – not only for sentiment,</span>
   <span id="f000052">but it’s the purest soap made.</span>
   <span id="f000053">Whenever you pay more than 10 cents a cake for soap you buy bad perfumes and labels.</span>
   <span id="f000054">But 50 cents is doing very well for a young man in your generation,</span>
   <span id="f000055">position and condition.</span>
   <span id="f000056">As I said,</span>
   <span id="f000057">you’re a gentleman.</span>
   <span id="f000058">They say it takes three generations to make one.</span>
   <span id="f000059">They’re off.</span>
   <span id="f000060">Money’ll do it as slick as soap grease.</span>
   <span id="f000061">It’s made you one.</span>
   <span id="f000062">By hokey!</span>
   <span id="f000063">it’s almost made one of me.</span>
   <span id="f000064">I’m nearly as impolite and disagreeable and ill-mannered as these two old Knickerbocker gents on each side of me that can’t sleep of nights because I bought in between ’em.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“There are some things that money can’t accomplish,” remarked young Rockwall,</span>
   <span id="f000066">rather gloomily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000068">don’t say that,” said old Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000069">shocked.</span>
   <span id="f000070">“I bet my money on money every time.</span>
   <span id="f000071">I’ve been through the encyclopaedia down to Y looking for something you can’t buy with it;</span>
   <span id="f000072">and I expect to have to take up the appendix next week.</span>
   <span id="f000073">I’m for money against the field.</span>
   <span id="f000074">Tell me something money won’t buy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">“For one thing,” answered Richard,</span>
   <span id="f000076">rankling a little,</span>
   <span id="f000077">“it won’t buy one into the exclusive circles of society.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“Oho!</span>
   <span id="f000079">won’t it?” thundered the champion of the root of evil.</span>
   <span id="f000080">“You tell me where your exclusive circles would be if the first Astor hadn’t had the money to pay for his steerage passage over?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">Richard sighed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">“And that’s what I was coming to,” said the old man,</span>
   <span id="f000083">less boisterously.</span>
   <span id="f000084">“That’s why I asked you to come in.</span>
   <span id="f000085">There’s something going wrong with you,</span>
   <span id="f000086">boy.</span>
   <span id="f000087">I’ve been noticing it for two weeks.</span>
   <span id="f000088">Out with it.</span>
   <span id="f000089">I guess I could lay my hands on eleven millions within twenty-four hours,</span>
   <span id="f000090">besides the real estate.</span>
   <span id="f000091">If it’s your liver,</span>
   <span id="f000092">there’s the <em>Rambler</em> down in the bay,</span>
   <span id="f000093">coaled,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and ready to steam down to the Bahamas in two days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Not a bad guess,</span>
   <span id="f000096">dad;</span>
   <span id="f000097">you haven’t missed it far.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000098">“Ah,” said Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000099">keenly;</span>
   <span id="f000100">“what’s her name?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">Richard began to walk up and down the library floor.</span>
   <span id="f000102">There was enough comradeship and sympathy in this crude old father of his to draw his confidence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Why don’t you ask her?” demanded old Anthony.</span>
   <span id="f000104">“She’ll jump at you.</span>
   <span id="f000105">You’ve got the money and the looks,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and you’re a decent boy.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Your hands are clean.</span>
   <span id="f000108">You’ve got no Eureka soap on ’em.</span>
   <span id="f000109">You’ve been to college,</span>
   <span id="f000110">but she’ll overlook that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“I haven’t had a chance,” said Richard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“Make one,” said Anthony.</span>
   <span id="f000113">“Take her for a walk in the park,</span>
   <span id="f000114">or a straw ride,</span>
   <span id="f000115">or walk home with her from church.</span>
   <span id="f000116">Chance!</span>
   <span id="f000117">Pshaw!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">“You don’t know the social mill,</span>
   <span id="f000119">dad.</span>
   <span id="f000120">She’s part of the stream that turns it.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Every hour and minute of her time is arranged for days in advance.</span>
   <span id="f000122">I must have that girl,</span>
   <span id="f000123">dad,</span>
   <span id="f000124">or this town is a blackjack swamp forevermore.</span>
   <span id="f000125">And I can’t write it – I can’t do that.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“Tut!” said the old man.</span>
   <span id="f000127">“Do you mean to tell me that with all the money I’ve got you can’t get an hour or two of a girl’s time for yourself?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">“I’ve put it off too late.</span>
   <span id="f000129">She’s going to sail for Europe at noon day after to-morrow for a two years’ stay.</span>
   <span id="f000130">I’m to see her alone to-morrow evening for a few minutes.</span>
   <span id="f000131">She’s at Larchmont now at her aunt’s.</span>
   <span id="f000132">I can’t go there.</span>
   <span id="f000133">But I’m allowed to meet her with a cab at the Grand Central Station to-morrow evening at the 8.30 train.</span>
   <span id="f000134">We drive down Broadway to Wallack’s at a gallop,</span>
   <span id="f000135">where her mother and a box party will be waiting for us in the lobby.</span>
   <span id="f000136">Do you think she would listen to a declaration from me during that six or eight minutes under those circumstances?</span>
   <span id="f000137">No.</span>
   <span id="f000138">And what chance would I have in the theatre or afterward?</span>
   <span id="f000139">None.</span>
   <span id="f000140">No,</span>
   <span id="f000141">dad,</span>
   <span id="f000142">this is one tangle that your money can’t unravel.</span>
   <span id="f000143">We can’t buy one minute of time with cash;</span>
   <span id="f000144">if we could,</span>
   <span id="f000145">rich people would live longer.</span>
   <span id="f000146">There’s no hope of getting a talk with Miss Lantry before she sails.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“All right,</span>
   <span id="f000148">Richard,</span>
   <span id="f000149">my boy,” said old Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000150">cheerfully.</span>
   <span id="f000151">“You may run along down to your club now.</span>
   <span id="f000152">I’m glad it ain’t your liver.</span>
   <span id="f000153">But don’t forget to burn a few punk sticks in the joss house to the great god Mazuma from time to time.</span>
   <span id="f000154">You say money won’t buy time?</span>
   <span id="f000155">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000156">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000157">you can’t order eternity wrapped up and delivered at your residence for a price,</span>
   <span id="f000158">but I’ve seen Father Time get pretty bad stone bruises on his heels when he walked through the gold diggings.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">That night came Aunt Ellen,</span>
   <span id="f000160">gentle,</span>
   <span id="f000161">sentimental,</span>
   <span id="f000162">wrinkled,</span>
   <span id="f000163">sighing,</span>
   <span id="f000164">oppressed by wealth,</span>
   <span id="f000165">in to Brother Anthony at his evening paper,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and began discourse on the subject of lovers’ woes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“He told me all about it,” said brother Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000168">yawning.</span>
   <span id="f000169">“I told him my bank account was at his service.</span>
   <span id="f000170">And then he began to knock money.</span>
   <span id="f000171">Said money couldn’t help.</span>
   <span id="f000172">Said the rules of society couldn’t be bucked for a yard by a team of ten-millionaires.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000174">Anthony,” sighed Aunt Ellen,</span>
   <span id="f000175">“I wish you would not think so much of money.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Wealth is nothing where a true affection is concerned.</span>
   <span id="f000177">Love is all-powerful.</span>
   <span id="f000178">If he only had spoken earlier!</span>
   <span id="f000179">She could not have refused our Richard.</span>
   <span id="f000180">But now I fear it is too late.</span>
   <span id="f000181">He will have no opportunity to address her.</span>
   <span id="f000182">All your gold cannot bring happiness to your son.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">At eight o’clock the next evening Aunt Ellen took a quaint old gold ring from a moth-eaten case and gave it to Richard.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“Wear it to-night,</span>
   <span id="f000185">nephew,” she begged.</span>
   <span id="f000186">“Your mother gave it to me.</span>
   <span id="f000187">Good luck in love she said it brought.</span>
   <span id="f000188">She asked me to give it to you when you had found the one you loved.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">Young Rockwall took the ring reverently and tried it on his smallest finger.</span>
   <span id="f000190">It slipped as far as the second joint and stopped.</span>
   <span id="f000191">He took it off and stuffed it into his vest pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000192">after the manner of man.</span>
   <span id="f000193">And then he ’phoned for his cab.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">At the station he captured Miss Lantry out of the gadding mob at eight thirty-two.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“We mustn’t keep mamma and the others waiting,” said she.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">“To Wallack’s Theatre as fast as you can drive!” said Richard loyally.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">They whirled up Forty-second to Broadway,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and then down the white-starred lane that leads from the soft meadows of sunset to the rocky hills of morning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">At Thirty-fourth Street young Richard quickly thrust up the trap and ordered the cabman to stop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">“I’ve dropped a ring,” he apologised,</span>
   <span id="f000201">as he climbed out.</span>
   <span id="f000202">“It was my mother’s,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and I’d hate to lose it.</span>
   <span id="f000204">I won’t detain you a minute – I saw where it fell.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000205">In less than a minute he was back in the cab with the ring.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">But within that minute a crosstown car had stopped directly in front of the cab.</span>
   <span id="f000207">The cabman tried to pass to the left,</span>
   <span id="f000208">but a heavy express wagon cut him off.</span>
   <span id="f000209">He tried the right,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and had to back away from a furniture van that had no business to be there.</span>
   <span id="f000211">He tried to back out,</span>
   <span id="f000212">but dropped his reins and swore dutifully.</span>
   <span id="f000213">He was blockaded in a tangled mess of vehicles and horses.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">One of those street blockades had occurred that sometimes tie up commerce and movement quite suddenly in the big city.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">“Why don’t you drive on?” said Miss Lantry,</span>
   <span id="f000216">impatiently.</span>
   <span id="f000217">“We’ll be late.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">Richard stood up in the cab and looked around.</span>
   <span id="f000219">He saw a congested flood of wagons,</span>
   <span id="f000220">trucks,</span>
   <span id="f000221">cabs,</span>
   <span id="f000222">vans and street cars filling the vast space where Broadway,</span>
   <span id="f000223">Sixth Avenue and Thirty-fourth street cross one another as a twenty-six inch maiden fills her twenty-two inch girdle.</span>
   <span id="f000224">And still from all the cross streets they were hurrying and rattling toward the converging point at full speed,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and hurling themselves into the struggling mass,</span>
   <span id="f000226">locking wheels and adding their drivers’ imprecations to the clamour.</span>
   <span id="f000227">The entire traffic of Manhattan seemed to have jammed itself around them.</span>
   <span id="f000228">The oldest New Yorker among the thousands of spectators that lined the sidewalks had not witnessed a street blockade of the proportions of this one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“I’m very sorry,” said Richard,</span>
   <span id="f000230">as he resumed his seat,</span>
   <span id="f000231">“but it looks as if we are stuck.</span>
   <span id="f000232">They won’t get this jumble loosened up in an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000233">It was my fault.</span>
   <span id="f000234">If I hadn’t dropped the ring we – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“Let me see the ring,” said Miss Lantry.</span>
   <span id="f000236">“Now that it can’t be helped,</span>
   <span id="f000237">I don’t care.</span>
   <span id="f000238">I think theatres are stupid,</span>
   <span id="f000239">anyway.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">At 11 o’clock that night somebody tapped lightly on Anthony Rockwall’s door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Come in,” shouted Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000242">who was in a red dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000243">reading a book of piratical adventures.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">Somebody was Aunt Ellen,</span>
   <span id="f000245">looking like a grey-haired angel that had been left on earth by mistake.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">“They’re engaged,</span>
   <span id="f000247">Anthony,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000248">softly.</span>
   <span id="f000249">"She has promised to marry our Richard.</span>
   <span id="f000250">On their way to the theatre there was a street blockade,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and it was two hours before their cab could get out of it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">“And oh,</span>
   <span id="f000253">brother Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000254">don’t ever boast of the power of money again.</span>
   <span id="f000255">A little emblem of true love – a little ring that symbolised unending and unmercenary affection – was the cause of our Richard finding his happiness.</span>
   <span id="f000256">He dropped it in the street,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and got out to recover it.</span>
   <span id="f000258">And before they could continue the blockade occurred.</span>
   <span id="f000259">He spoke to his love and won her there while the cab was hemmed in.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Money is dross compared with true love,</span>
   <span id="f000261">Anthony.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000262">“All right,” said old Anthony.</span>
   <span id="f000263">“I’m glad the boy has got what he wanted.</span>
   <span id="f000264">I told him I wouldn’t spare any expense in the matter if – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“But,</span>
   <span id="f000266">brother Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000267">what good could your money have done?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“Sister,” said Anthony Rockwall.</span>
   <span id="f000269">“I’ve got my pirate in a devil of a scrape.</span>
   <span id="f000270">His ship has just been scuttled,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and he’s too good a judge of the value of money to let drown.</span>
   <span id="f000272">I wish you would let me go on with this chapter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000273">The story should end here.</span>
   <span id="f000274">I wish it would as heartily as you who read it wish it did.</span>
   <span id="f000275">But we must go to the bottom of the well for truth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">The next day a person with red hands and a blue polka-dot necktie,</span>
   <span id="f000277">who called himself Kelly,</span>
   <span id="f000278">called at Anthony Rockwall’s house,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and was at once received in the library.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“Well,” said Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000281">reaching for his chequebook,</span>
   <span id="f000282">“it was a good bilin’ of soap.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Let’s see – you had $5,000 in cash.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">“I paid out $300 more of my own,” said Kelly.</span>
   <span id="f000285">“I had to go a little above the estimate.</span>
   <span id="f000286">I got the express wagons and cabs mostly for $5;</span>
   <span id="f000287">but the trucks and two-horse teams mostly raised me to $10.</span>
   <span id="f000288">The motormen wanted $10,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and some of the loaded teams $20.</span>
   <span id="f000290">The cops struck me hardest – $50 I paid two,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and the rest $20 and $25.</span>
   <span id="f000292">But didn’t it work beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000293">Mr.&#160;Rockwall?</span>
   <span id="f000294">I’m glad William A.</span>
   <span id="f000295">Brady wasn’t onto that little outdoor vehicle mob scene.</span>
   <span id="f000296">I wouldn’t want William to break his heart with jealousy.</span>
   <span id="f000297">And never a rehearsal,</span>
   <span id="f000298">either!</span>
   <span id="f000299">The boys was on time to the fraction of a second.</span>
   <span id="f000300">It was two hours before a snake could get below Greeley’s statue.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">“Thirteen hundred – there you are,</span>
   <span id="f000302">Kelly,” said Anthony,</span>
   <span id="f000303">tearing off a check.</span>
   <span id="f000304">“Your thousand,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and the $300 you were out.</span>
   <span id="f000306">You don’t despise money,</span>
   <span id="f000307">do you,</span>
   <span id="f000308">Kelly?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">“Me?” said Kelly.</span>
   <span id="f000310">“I can lick the man that invented poverty.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">Anthony called Kelly when he was at the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">“You didn’t notice,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000313">“anywhere in the tie-up,</span>
   <span id="f000314">a kind of a fat boy without any clothes on shooting arrows around with a bow,</span>
   <span id="f000315">did you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000317">no,” said Kelly,</span>
   <span id="f000318">mystified.</span>
   <span id="f000319">“I didn’t.</span>
   <span id="f000320">If he was like you say,</span>
   <span id="f000321">maybe the cops pinched him before I got there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">“I thought the little rascal wouldn’t be on hand,” chuckled Anthony.</span>
   <span id="f000323">“Good-by,</span>
   <span id="f000324">Kelly.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

