<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Alex Wella</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Rip Van Winkle</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Washington Irving</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">Whoever has made a voyage up the Hudson must remember the Kaatskill mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000008">They are a dismembered branch of the great Appalachian family,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and are seen away to the west of the river,</span>
   <span id="f000010">swelling up to a noble height,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and lording it over the surrounding country.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Every change of season,</span>
   <span id="f000013">every change of weather,</span>
   <span id="f000014">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000015">every hour of the day,</span>
   <span id="f000016">produces some change in the magical hues and shapes of these mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and they are regarded by all the good wives,</span>
   <span id="f000018">far and near,</span>
   <span id="f000019">as perfect barometers.</span>
   <span id="f000020">When the weather is fair and settled,</span>
   <span id="f000021">they are clothed in blue and purple,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and print their bold outlines on the clear evening sky,</span>
   <span id="f000023">but,</span>
   <span id="f000024">sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000025">when the rest of the landscape is cloudless,</span>
   <span id="f000026">they will gather a hood of gray vapors about their summits,</span>
   <span id="f000027">which,</span>
   <span id="f000028">in the last rays of the setting sun,</span>
   <span id="f000029">will glow and light up like a crown of glory.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">At the foot of these fairy mountains,</span>
   <span id="f000031">the voyager may have descried the light smoke curling up from a village,</span>
   <span id="f000032">whose shingle-roofs gleam among the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000033">just where the blue tints of the upland melt away into the fresh green of the nearer landscape.</span>
   <span id="f000034">It is a little village of great antiquity,</span>
   <span id="f000035">having been founded by some of the Dutch colonists,</span>
   <span id="f000036">in the early times of the province,</span>
   <span id="f000037">just about the beginning of the government of the good Peter Stuyvesant,</span>
   <span id="f000038">(may he rest in peace!)</span>
   <span id="f000039">and there were some of the houses of the original settlers standing within a few years,</span>
   <span id="f000040">built of small yellow bricks brought from Holland,</span>
   <span id="f000041">having latticed windows and gable fronts,</span>
   <span id="f000042">surmounted with weather-cocks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">In that same village,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and in one of these very houses</span>
   <span id="f000045">(which,</span>
   <span id="f000046">to tell the precise truth,</span>
   <span id="f000047">was sadly time-worn and weather-beaten),</span>
   <span id="f000048">there lived many years since,</span>
   <span id="f000049">while the country was yet a province of Great Britain,</span>
   <span id="f000050">a simple good-natured fellow of the name of Rip Van Winkle.</span>
   <span id="f000051">He was a descendant of the Van Winkles who figured so gallantly in the chivalrous days of Peter Stuyvesant,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and accompanied him to the siege of Fort Christina.</span>
   <span id="f000053">He inherited,</span>
   <span id="f000054">however,</span>
   <span id="f000055">but little of the martial character of his ancestors.</span>
   <span id="f000056">I have observed that he was a simple good-natured man;</span>
   <span id="f000057">he was,</span>
   <span id="f000058">moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000059">a kind neighbor,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and an obedient hen-pecked husband.</span>
   <span id="f000061">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000062">to the latter circumstance might be owing that meekness of spirit which gained him such universal popularity;</span>
   <span id="f000063">for those men are most apt to be obsequious and conciliating abroad,</span>
   <span id="f000064">who are under the discipline of shrews at home.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Their tempers,</span>
   <span id="f000066">doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f000067">are rendered pliant and malleable in the fiery furnace of domestic tribulation;</span>
   <span id="f000068">and a curtain lecture is worth all the sermons in the world for teaching the virtues of patience and long-suffering.</span>
   <span id="f000069">A termagant wife may,</span>
   <span id="f000070">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000071">in some respects,</span>
   <span id="f000072">be considered a tolerable blessing;</span>
   <span id="f000073">and if so,</span>
   <span id="f000074">Rip Van Winkle was thrice blessed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000075">Certain it is,</span>
   <span id="f000076">that he was a great favorite among all the good wives of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000077">who,</span>
   <span id="f000078">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000079">with the amiable sex,</span>
   <span id="f000080">took his part in all family squabbles;</span>
   <span id="f000081">and never failed,</span>
   <span id="f000082">whenever they talked those matters over in their evening gossipings,</span>
   <span id="f000083">to lay all the blame on Dame Van Winkle.</span>
   <span id="f000084">The children of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000085">too,</span>
   <span id="f000086">would shout with joy whenever he approached.</span>
   <span id="f000087">He assisted at their sports,</span>
   <span id="f000088">made their playthings,</span>
   <span id="f000089">taught them to fly kites and shoot marbles,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and told them long stories of ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000091">witches,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and Indians.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Whenever he went dodging about the village,</span>
   <span id="f000094">he was surrounded by a troop of them,</span>
   <span id="f000095">hanging on his skirts,</span>
   <span id="f000096">clambering on his back,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and playing a thousand tricks on him with impunity;</span>
   <span id="f000098">and not a dog would bark at him throughout the neighborhood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">The great error in Rip’s composition was an insuperable aversion to all kinds of profitable labor.</span>
   <span id="f000100">It could not be from the want of assiduity or perseverance;</span>
   <span id="f000101">for he would sit on a wet rock,</span>
   <span id="f000102">with a rod as long and heavy as a Tartar’s lance,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and fish all day without a murmur,</span>
   <span id="f000104">even though he should not be encouraged by a single nibble.</span>
   <span id="f000105">He would carry a fowling-piece on his shoulder for hours together,</span>
   <span id="f000106">trudging through woods and swamps,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and up hill and down dale,</span>
   <span id="f000108">to shoot a few squirrels or wild pigeons.</span>
   <span id="f000109">He would never refuse to assist a neighbor even in the roughest toil,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and was a foremost man at all country frolics for husking Indian corn,</span>
   <span id="f000111">or building stone-fences;</span>
   <span id="f000112">the women of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000113">too,</span>
   <span id="f000114">used to employ him to run their errands,</span>
   <span id="f000115">and to do such little odd jobs as their less obliging husbands would not do for them.</span>
   <span id="f000116">In a word Rip was ready to attend to anybody’s business but his own;</span>
   <span id="f000117">but as to doing family duty,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and keeping his farm in order,</span>
   <span id="f000119">he found it impossible.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">In fact,</span>
   <span id="f000121">he declared it was of no use to work on his farm;</span>
   <span id="f000122">it was the most pestilent little piece of ground in the whole country;</span>
   <span id="f000123">every thing about it went wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and would go wrong,</span>
   <span id="f000125">in spite of him.</span>
   <span id="f000126">His fences were continually falling to pieces;</span>
   <span id="f000127">his cow would either go astray,</span>
   <span id="f000128">or get among the cabbages;</span>
   <span id="f000129">weeds were sure to grow quicker in his fields than anywhere else;</span>
   <span id="f000130">the rain always made a point of setting in just as he had some out-door work to do;</span>
   <span id="f000131">so that though his patrimonial estate had dwindled away under his management,</span>
   <span id="f000132">acre by acre,</span>
   <span id="f000133">until there was little more left than a mere patch of Indian corn and potatoes,</span>
   <span id="f000134">yet it was the worst conditioned farm in the neighborhood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">His children,</span>
   <span id="f000136">too,</span>
   <span id="f000137">were as ragged and wild as if they belonged to nobody.</span>
   <span id="f000138">His son Rip,</span>
   <span id="f000139">an urchin begotten in his own likeness,</span>
   <span id="f000140">promised to inherit the habits,</span>
   <span id="f000141">with the old clothes of his father.</span>
   <span id="f000142">He was generally seen trooping like a colt at his mother’s heels,</span>
   <span id="f000143">equipped in a pair of his father’s cast-off galligaskins,</span>
   <span id="f000144">which he had much ado to hold up with one hand,</span>
   <span id="f000145">as a fine lady does her train in bad weather.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000146">Rip Van Winkle,</span>
   <span id="f000147">however,</span>
   <span id="f000148">was one of those happy mortals,</span>
   <span id="f000149">of foolish,</span>
   <span id="f000150">well-oiled dispositions,</span>
   <span id="f000151">who take the world easy,</span>
   <span id="f000152">eat white bread or brown,</span>
   <span id="f000153">whichever can be got with least thought or trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and would rather starve on a penny than work for a pound.</span>
   <span id="f000155">If left to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000156">he would have whistled life away in perfect contentment;</span>
   <span id="f000157">but his wife kept continually dinning in his ears about his idleness,</span>
   <span id="f000158">his carelessness,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and the ruin he was bringing on his family.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Morning,</span>
   <span id="f000161">noon,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and night,</span>
   <span id="f000163">her tongue was incessantly going,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and everything he said or did was sure to produce a torrent of household eloquence.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Rip had but one way of replying to all lectures of the kind,</span>
   <span id="f000166">and that,</span>
   <span id="f000167">by frequent use,</span>
   <span id="f000168">had grown into a habit.</span>
   <span id="f000169">He shrugged his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000170">shook his head,</span>
   <span id="f000171">cast up his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000172">but said nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000173">This,</span>
   <span id="f000174">however,</span>
   <span id="f000175">always provoked a fresh volley from his wife;</span>
   <span id="f000176">so that he was fain to draw off his forces,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and take to the outside of the house—the only side which,</span>
   <span id="f000178">in truth,</span>
   <span id="f000179">belongs to a hen-pecked husband.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">Rip’s sole domestic adherent was his dog Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000181">who was as much hen-pecked as his master;</span>
   <span id="f000182">for Dame Van Winkle regarded them as companions in idleness,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and even looked upon Wolf with an evil eye,</span>
   <span id="f000184">as the cause of his master’s going so often astray.</span>
   <span id="f000185">True it is,</span>
   <span id="f000186">in all points of spirit befitting an honorable dog,</span>
   <span id="f000187">he was as courageous an animal as ever scoured the woods—but what courage can withstand the ever-during and all-besetting terrors of a woman’s tongue?</span>
   <span id="f000188">The moment Wolf entered the house his crest fell,</span>
   <span id="f000189">his tail drooped to the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000190">or curled between his legs,</span>
   <span id="f000191">he sneaked about with a gallows air,</span>
   <span id="f000192">casting many a sidelong glance at Dame Van Winkle,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and at the least flourish of a broom-stick or ladle,</span>
   <span id="f000194">he would fly to the door with yelping precipitation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">Times grew worse and worse with Rip Van Winkle as years of matrimony rolled on;</span>
   <span id="f000196">a tart temper never mellows with age,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and a sharp tongue is the only edged tool that grows keener with constant use.</span>
   <span id="f000198">For a long while he used to console himself,</span>
   <span id="f000199">when driven from home,</span>
   <span id="f000200">by frequenting a kind of perpetual club of the sages,</span>
   <span id="f000201">philosophers,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and other idle personages of the village;</span>
   <span id="f000203">which held its sessions on a bench before a small inn,</span>
   <span id="f000204">designated by a rubicund portrait of His Majesty George the Third.</span>
   <span id="f000205">Here they used to sit in the shade through a long lazy summer’s day,</span>
   <span id="f000206">talking listlessly over village gossip,</span>
   <span id="f000207">or telling endless sleepy stories about nothing.</span>
   <span id="f000208">But it would have been worth any statesman’s money to have heard the profound discussions that sometimes took place,</span>
   <span id="f000209">when by chance an old newspaper fell into their hands from some passing traveller.</span>
   <span id="f000210">How solemnly they would listen to the contents,</span>
   <span id="f000211">as drawled out by Derrick Van Bummel,</span>
   <span id="f000212">the schoolmaster,</span>
   <span id="f000213">a dapper learned little man,</span>
   <span id="f000214">who was not to be daunted by the most gigantic word in the dictionary;</span>
   <span id="f000215">and how sagely they would deliberate upon public events some months after they had taken place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000216">The opinions of this junto were completely controlled by Nicholas Vedder,</span>
   <span id="f000217">a patriarch of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and landlord of the inn,</span>
   <span id="f000219">at the door of which he took his seat from morning till night,</span>
   <span id="f000220">just moving sufficiently to avoid the sun and keep in the shade of a large tree;</span>
   <span id="f000221">so that the neighbors could tell the hour by his movements as accurately as by a sundial.</span>
   <span id="f000222">It is true he was rarely heard to speak,</span>
   <span id="f000223">but smoked his pipe incessantly.</span>
   <span id="f000224">His adherents,</span>
   <span id="f000225">however</span>
   <span id="f000226">(for every great man has his adherents),</span>
   <span id="f000227">perfectly understood him,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and knew how to gather his opinions.</span>
   <span id="f000229">When anything that was read or related displeased him,</span>
   <span id="f000230">he was observed to smoke his pipe vehemently,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and to send forth short,</span>
   <span id="f000232">frequent and angry puffs;</span>
   <span id="f000233">but when pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000234">he would inhale the smoke slowly and tranquilly,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and emit it in light and placid clouds;</span>
   <span id="f000236">and sometimes,</span>
   <span id="f000237">taking the pipe from his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and letting the fragrant vapor curl about his nose,</span>
   <span id="f000239">would gravely nod his head in token of perfect approbation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000240">From even this stronghold the unlucky Rip was at length routed by his termagant wife,</span>
   <span id="f000241">who would suddenly break in upon the tranquillity of the assemblage and call the members all to naught;</span>
   <span id="f000242">nor was that august personage,</span>
   <span id="f000243">Nicholas Vedder himself,</span>
   <span id="f000244">sacred from the daring tongue of this terrible virago,</span>
   <span id="f000245">who charged him outright with encouraging her husband in habits of idleness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">Poor Rip was at last reduced almost to despair;</span>
   <span id="f000247">and his only alternative,</span>
   <span id="f000248">to escape from the labor of the farm and clamor of his wife,</span>
   <span id="f000249">was to take gun in hand and stroll away into the woods.</span>
   <span id="f000250">Here he would sometimes seat himself at the foot of a tree,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and share the contents of his wallet with Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000252">with whom he sympathized as a fellow-sufferer in persecution.</span>
   <span id="f000253">“Poor Wolf,” he would say,</span>
   <span id="f000254">“thy mistress leads thee a dog’s life of it;</span>
   <span id="f000255">but never mind,</span>
   <span id="f000256">my lad,</span>
   <span id="f000257">whilst I live thou shalt never want a friend to stand by thee!” Wolf would wag his tail,</span>
   <span id="f000258">look wistfuly in his master’s face,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and if dogs can feel pity I verily believe he reciprocated the sentiment with all his heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">In a long ramble of the kind on a fine autumnal day,</span>
   <span id="f000261">Rip had unconsciously scrambled to one of the highest parts of the Kaatskill mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000262">He was after his favorite sport of squirrel shooting,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and the still solitudes had echoed and re-echoed with the reports of his gun.</span>
   <span id="f000264">Panting and fatigued,</span>
   <span id="f000265">he threw himself,</span>
   <span id="f000266">late in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000267">on a green knoll,</span>
   <span id="f000268">covered with mountain herbage,</span>
   <span id="f000269">that crowned the brow of a precipice.</span>
   <span id="f000270">From an opening between the trees he could overlook all the lower country for many a mile of rich woodland.</span>
   <span id="f000271">He saw at a distance the lordly Hudson,</span>
   <span id="f000272">far,</span>
   <span id="f000273">far below him,</span>
   <span id="f000274">moving on its silent but majestic course,</span>
   <span id="f000275">with the reflection of a purple cloud,</span>
   <span id="f000276">or the sail of a lagging bark,</span>
   <span id="f000277">here and there sleeping on its glassy bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and at last losing itself in the blue highlands.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000279">On the other side he looked down into a deep mountain glen,</span>
   <span id="f000280">wild,</span>
   <span id="f000281">lonely,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and shagged,</span>
   <span id="f000283">the bottom filled with fragments from the impending cliffs,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and scarcely lighted by the reflected rays of the setting sun.</span>
   <span id="f000285">For some time Rip lay musing on this scene;</span>
   <span id="f000286">evening was gradually advancing;</span>
   <span id="f000287">the mountains began to throw their long blue shadows over the valleys;</span>
   <span id="f000288">he saw that it would be dark long before he could reach the village,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and he heaved a heavy sigh when he thought of encountering the terrors of Dame Van Winkle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">As he was about to descend,</span>
   <span id="f000291">he heard a voice from a distance,</span>
   <span id="f000292">hallooing,</span>
   <span id="f000293">“Rip Van Winkle!</span>
   <span id="f000294">Rip Van Winkle!” He looked round,</span>
   <span id="f000295">but could see nothing but a crow winging its solitary flight across the mountain.</span>
   <span id="f000296">He thought his fancy must have deceived him,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and turned again to descend,</span>
   <span id="f000298">when he heard the same cry ring through the still evening air:</span>
   <span id="f000299">“Rip Van Winkle!</span>
   <span id="f000300">Rip Van Winkle!”—at the same time Wolf bristled up his back,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and giving a low growl,</span>
   <span id="f000302">skulked to his master’s side,</span>
   <span id="f000303">looking fearfully down into the glen.</span>
   <span id="f000304">Rip now felt a vague apprehension stealing over him;</span>
   <span id="f000305">he looked anxiously in the same direction,</span>
   <span id="f000306">and perceived a strange figure slowly toiling up the rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and bending under the weight of something he carried on his back.</span>
   <span id="f000308">He was surprised to see any human being in this lonely and unfrequented place,</span>
   <span id="f000309">but supposing it to be some one of the neighborhood in need of his assistance,</span>
   <span id="f000310">he hastened down to yield it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">On nearer approach he was still more surprised at the singularity of the stranger’s appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000312">He was a short square-built old fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000313">with thick bushy hair,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and a grizzled beard.</span>
   <span id="f000315">His dress was of the antique Dutch fashion—a cloth jerkin strapped round the waist—several pair of breeches,</span>
   <span id="f000316">the outer one of ample volume,</span>
   <span id="f000317">decorated with rows of buttons down the sides,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and bunches at the knees.</span>
   <span id="f000319">He bore on his shoulder a stout keg,</span>
   <span id="f000320">that seemed full of liquor,</span>
   <span id="f000321">and made signs for Rip to approach and assist him with the load.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Though rather shy and distrustful of this new acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f000323">Rip complied with his usual alacrity;</span>
   <span id="f000324">and mutually relieving one another,</span>
   <span id="f000325">they clambered up a narrow gully,</span>
   <span id="f000326">apparently the dry bed of a mountain torrent.</span>
   <span id="f000327">As they ascended,</span>
   <span id="f000328">Rip every now and then heard long rolling peals,</span>
   <span id="f000329">like distant thunder,</span>
   <span id="f000330">that seemed to issue out of a deep ravine,</span>
   <span id="f000331">or rather cleft,</span>
   <span id="f000332">between lofty rocks,</span>
   <span id="f000333">toward which their rugged path conducted.</span>
   <span id="f000334">He paused for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000335">but supposing it to be the muttering of one of those transient thunder-showers which often take place in mountain heights,</span>
   <span id="f000336">he proceeded.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Passing through the ravine,</span>
   <span id="f000338">they came to a hollow,</span>
   <span id="f000339">like a small amphitheatre,</span>
   <span id="f000340">surrounded by perpendicular precipices,</span>
   <span id="f000341">over the brinks of which impending trees shot their branches,</span>
   <span id="f000342">so that you only caught glimpses of the azure sky and the bright evening cloud.</span>
   <span id="f000343">During the whole time Rip and his companion had labored on in silence;</span>
   <span id="f000344">for though the former marvelled greatly what could be the object of carrying a keg of liquor up this wild mountain,</span>
   <span id="f000345">yet there was something strange and incomprehensible about the unknown,</span>
   <span id="f000346">that inspired awe and checked familiarity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000347">On entering the amphitheatre,</span>
   <span id="f000348">new objects of wonder presented themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000349">On a level spot in the centre was a company of odd-looking personages playing at nine-pins.</span>
   <span id="f000350">They were dressed in a quaint outlandish fashion;</span>
   <span id="f000351">some wore short doublets,</span>
   <span id="f000352">others jerkins,</span>
   <span id="f000353">with long knives in their belts,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and most of them had enormous breeches,</span>
   <span id="f000355">of similar style with that of the guide’s.</span>
   <span id="f000356">Their visages,</span>
   <span id="f000357">too,</span>
   <span id="f000358">were peculiar:</span>
   <span id="f000359">one had a large beard,</span>
   <span id="f000360">broad face,</span>
   <span id="f000361">and small piggish eyes:</span>
   <span id="f000362">the face of another seemed to consist entirely of nose,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and was surmounted by a white sugar-loaf hat set off with a little red cock’s tail.</span>
   <span id="f000364">They all had beards,</span>
   <span id="f000365">of various shapes and colors.</span>
   <span id="f000366">There was one who seemed to be the commander.</span>
   <span id="f000367">He was a stout old gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000368">with a weather-beaten countenance;</span>
   <span id="f000369">he wore a laced doublet,</span>
   <span id="f000370">broad belt and hanger,</span>
   <span id="f000371">high-crowned hat and feather,</span>
   <span id="f000372">red stockings,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and high-heeled shoes,</span>
   <span id="f000374">with roses in them.</span>
   <span id="f000375">The whole group reminded Rip of the figures in an old Flemish painting,</span>
   <span id="f000376">in the parlor of Dominie Van Shaick,</span>
   <span id="f000377">the village parson,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and which had been brought over from Holland at the time of the settlement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">What seemed particularly odd to Rip was,</span>
   <span id="f000380">that though these folks were evidently amusing themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000381">yet they maintained the gravest faces,</span>
   <span id="f000382">the most mysterious silence,</span>
   <span id="f000383">and were,</span>
   <span id="f000384">withal,</span>
   <span id="f000385">the most melancholy party of pleasure he had ever witnessed.</span>
   <span id="f000386">Nothing interrupted the stillness of the scene but the noise of the balls,</span>
   <span id="f000387">which,</span>
   <span id="f000388">whenever they were rolled,</span>
   <span id="f000389">echoed along the mountains like rumbling peals of thunder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">As Rip and his companion approached them,</span>
   <span id="f000391">they suddenly desisted from their play,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and stared at him with such fixed statue-like gaze,</span>
   <span id="f000393">and such strange,</span>
   <span id="f000394">uncouth,</span>
   <span id="f000395">lack-lustre countenances,</span>
   <span id="f000396">that his heart turned within him,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and his knees smote together.</span>
   <span id="f000398">His companion now emptied the contents of the keg into large flagons,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and made signs to him to wait upon the company.</span>
   <span id="f000400">He obeyed with fear and trembling;</span>
   <span id="f000401">they quaffed the liquor in profound silence,</span>
   <span id="f000402">and then returned to their game.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">By degrees Rip’s awe and apprehension subsided.</span>
   <span id="f000404">He even ventured,</span>
   <span id="f000405">when no eye was fixed upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000406">to taste the beverage,</span>
   <span id="f000407">which he found had much of the flavor of excellent Hollands.</span>
   <span id="f000408">He was naturally a thirsty soul,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and was soon tempted to repeat the draught.</span>
   <span id="f000410">One taste provoked another;</span>
   <span id="f000411">and he reiterated his visits to the flagon so often that at length his senses were overpowered,</span>
   <span id="f000412">his eyes swam in his head,</span>
   <span id="f000413">his head gradually declined,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and he fell into a deep sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000415">On waking,</span>
   <span id="f000416">he found himself on the green knoll whence he had first seen the old man of the glen.</span>
   <span id="f000417">He rubbed his eyes—it was a bright sunny morning.</span>
   <span id="f000418">The birds were hopping and twittering among the bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and the eagle was wheeling aloft,</span>
   <span id="f000420">and breasting the pure mountain breeze.</span>
   <span id="f000421">“Surely,” thought Rip,</span>
   <span id="f000422">“I have not slept here all night.” He recalled the occurrences before he fell asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000423">The strange man with a keg of liquor—the mountain ravine—the wild retreat among the rocks—the woe-begone party at ninepins—the flagon—“Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000424">that flagon!</span>
   <span id="f000425">that wicked flagon!” thought Rip—“what excuse shall I make to Dame Van Winkle!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000426">He looked round for his gun,</span>
   <span id="f000427">but in place of the clean well-oiled fowling-piece,</span>
   <span id="f000428">he found an old firelock lying by him,</span>
   <span id="f000429">the barrel incrusted with rust,</span>
   <span id="f000430">the lock falling off,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and the stock worm-eaten.</span>
   <span id="f000432">He now suspected that the grave roysterers of the mountain had put a trick upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and having dosed him with liquor,</span>
   <span id="f000434">had robbed him of his gun.</span>
   <span id="f000435">Wolf,</span>
   <span id="f000436">too,</span>
   <span id="f000437">had disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000438">but he might have strayed away after a squirrel or partridge.</span>
   <span id="f000439">He whistled after him and shouted his name,</span>
   <span id="f000440">but all in vain;</span>
   <span id="f000441">the echoes repeated his whistle and shout,</span>
   <span id="f000442">but no dog was to be seen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">He determined to revisit the scene of the last evening’s gambol,</span>
   <span id="f000444">and if he met with any of the party,</span>
   <span id="f000445">to demand his dog and gun.</span>
   <span id="f000446">As he rose to walk,</span>
   <span id="f000447">he found himself stiff in the joints,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and wanting in his usual activity.</span>
   <span id="f000449">“These mountain beds do not agree with me,” thought Rip;</span>
   <span id="f000450">“and if this frolic should lay me up with a fit of the rheumatism,</span>
   <span id="f000451">I shall have a blessed time with Dame Van Winkle.” With some difficulty he got down into the glen:</span>
   <span id="f000452">he found the gully up which he and his companion had ascended the preceding evening;</span>
   <span id="f000453">but to his astonishment a mountain stream was now foaming down it,</span>
   <span id="f000454">leaping from rock to rock,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and filling the glen with babbling murmurs.</span>
   <span id="f000456">He,</span>
   <span id="f000457">however,</span>
   <span id="f000458">made shift to scramble up its sides,</span>
   <span id="f000459">working his toilsome way through thickets of birch,</span>
   <span id="f000460">sassafras,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and witch-hazel,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and sometimes tripped up or entangled by the wild grapevines that twisted their coils or tendrils from tree to tree,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and spread a kind of network in his path.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">At length he reached to where the ravine had opened through the cliffs to the amphitheatre;</span>
   <span id="f000465">but no traces of such opening remained.</span>
   <span id="f000466">The rocks presented a high impenetrable wall over which the torrent came tumbling in a sheet of feathery foam,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and fell into a broad deep basin,</span>
   <span id="f000468">black from the shadows of the surrounding forest.</span>
   <span id="f000469">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000470">then,</span>
   <span id="f000471">poor Rip was brought to a stand.</span>
   <span id="f000472">He again called and whistled after his dog;</span>
   <span id="f000473">he was only answered by the cawing of a flock of idle crows,</span>
   <span id="f000474">sporting high in air about a dry tree that overhung a sunny precipice;</span>
   <span id="f000475">and who,</span>
   <span id="f000476">secure in their elevation,</span>
   <span id="f000477">seemed to look down and scoff at the poor man’s perplexities.</span>
   <span id="f000478">What was to be done?</span>
   <span id="f000479">the morning was passing away,</span>
   <span id="f000480">and Rip felt famished for want of his breakfast.</span>
   <span id="f000481">He grieved to give up his dog and gun;</span>
   <span id="f000482">he dreaded to meet his wife;</span>
   <span id="f000483">but it would not do to starve among the mountains.</span>
   <span id="f000484">He shook his head,</span>
   <span id="f000485">shouldered the rusty firelock,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and,</span>
   <span id="f000487">with a heart full of trouble and anxiety,</span>
   <span id="f000488">turned his steps homeward.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">As he approached the village he met a number of people,</span>
   <span id="f000490">but none whom he knew,</span>
   <span id="f000491">which somewhat surprised him,</span>
   <span id="f000492">for he had thought himself acquainted with every one in the country round.</span>
   <span id="f000493">Their dress,</span>
   <span id="f000494">too,</span>
   <span id="f000495">was of a different fashion from that to which he was accustomed.</span>
   <span id="f000496">They all stared at him with equal marks of surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000497">and whenever they cast their eyes upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000498">invariably stroked their chins.</span>
   <span id="f000499">The constant recurrence of this gesture induced Rip,</span>
   <span id="f000500">involuntarily,</span>
   <span id="f000501">to do the same,</span>
   <span id="f000502">when to his astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f000503">he found his beard had grown a foot long!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">He had now entered the skirts of the village.</span>
   <span id="f000505">A troop of strange children ran at his heels,</span>
   <span id="f000506">hooting after him,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and pointing at his gray beard.</span>
   <span id="f000508">The dogs,</span>
   <span id="f000509">too,</span>
   <span id="f000510">not one of which he recognized for an old acquaintance,</span>
   <span id="f000511">barked at him as he passed.</span>
   <span id="f000512">The very village was altered;</span>
   <span id="f000513">it was larger and more populous.</span>
   <span id="f000514">There were rows of houses which he had never seen before,</span>
   <span id="f000515">and those which had been his familiar haunts had disappeared.</span>
   <span id="f000516">Strange names were over the doors—strange faces at the windows—every thing was strange.</span>
   <span id="f000517">His mind now misgave him;</span>
   <span id="f000518">he began to doubt whether both he and the world around him were not bewitched.</span>
   <span id="f000519">Surely this was his native village,</span>
   <span id="f000520">which he had left but the day before.</span>
   <span id="f000521">There stood the Kaatskill mountains—there ran the silver Hudson at a distance—there was every hill and dale precisely as it had always been—Rip was sorely perplexed—“That flagon last night,” thought he,</span>
   <span id="f000522">“has addled my poor head sadly!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000523">It was with some difficulty that he found the way to his own house,</span>
   <span id="f000524">which he approached with silent awe,</span>
   <span id="f000525">expecting every moment to hear the shrill voice of Dame Van Winkle.</span>
   <span id="f000526">He found the house gone to decay—the roof fallen in,</span>
   <span id="f000527">the windows shattered,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and the doors off the hinges.</span>
   <span id="f000529">A half-starved dog that looked like Wolf was skulking about it.</span>
   <span id="f000530">Rip called him by name,</span>
   <span id="f000531">but the cur snarled,</span>
   <span id="f000532">showed his teeth,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and passed on.</span>
   <span id="f000534">This was an unkind cut indeed—“My very dog,” sighed poor Rip,</span>
   <span id="f000535">“has forgotten me!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000536">He entered the house,</span>
   <span id="f000537">which,</span>
   <span id="f000538">to tell the truth,</span>
   <span id="f000539">Dame Van Winkle had always kept in neat order.</span>
   <span id="f000540">It was empty,</span>
   <span id="f000541">forlorn,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and apparently abandoned.</span>
   <span id="f000543">This desolateness overcame all his connubial fears—he called loudly for his wife and children—the lonely chambers rang for a moment with his voice,</span>
   <span id="f000544">and then all again was silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000545">He now hurried forth,</span>
   <span id="f000546">and hastened to his old resort,</span>
   <span id="f000547">the village inn—but it too was gone.</span>
   <span id="f000548">A large rickety wooden building stood in its place,</span>
   <span id="f000549">with great gaping windows,</span>
   <span id="f000550">some of them broken and mended with old hats and petticoats,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and over the door was painted,</span>
   <span id="f000552">“the Union Hotel,</span>
   <span id="f000553">by Jonathan Doolittle.” Instead of the great tree that used to shelter the quiet little Dutch inn of yore,</span>
   <span id="f000554">there now was reared a tall naked pole,</span>
   <span id="f000555">with something on the top that looked like a red night-cap,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and from it was fluttering a flag,</span>
   <span id="f000557">on which was a singular assemblage of stars and stripes—all this was strange and incomprehensible.</span>
   <span id="f000558">He recognized on the sign,</span>
   <span id="f000559">however,</span>
   <span id="f000560">the ruby face of King George,</span>
   <span id="f000561">under which he had smoked so many a peaceful pipe;</span>
   <span id="f000562">but even this was singularly metamorphosed.</span>
   <span id="f000563">The red coat was changed for one of blue and buff,</span>
   <span id="f000564">a sword was held in the hand instead of a sceptre,</span>
   <span id="f000565">the head was decorated with a cocked hat,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and underneath was painted in large characters,</span>
   <span id="f000567">GENERAL WASHINGTON.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000568">There was,</span>
   <span id="f000569">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000570">a crowd of folk about the door,</span>
   <span id="f000571">but none that Rip recollected.</span>
   <span id="f000572">The very character of the people seemed changed.</span>
   <span id="f000573">There was a busy,</span>
   <span id="f000574">bustling,</span>
   <span id="f000575">disputatious tone about it,</span>
   <span id="f000576">instead of the accustomed phlegm and drowsy tranquillity.</span>
   <span id="f000577">He looked in vain for the sage Nicholas Vedder,</span>
   <span id="f000578">with his broad face,</span>
   <span id="f000579">double chin,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and fair long pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000581">uttering clouds of tobacco-smoke instead of idle speeches;</span>
   <span id="f000582">or Van Bummel,</span>
   <span id="f000583">the schoolmaster,</span>
   <span id="f000584">doling forth the contents of an ancient newspaper.</span>
   <span id="f000585">In place of these,</span>
   <span id="f000586">a lean,</span>
   <span id="f000587">bilious-looking fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000588">with his pockets full of handbills,</span>
   <span id="f000589">was haranguing vehemently about rights of citizens—elections—members of congress—liberty—Bunker’s Hill—heroes of seventy-six—and other words,</span>
   <span id="f000590">which were a perfect Babylonish jargon to the bewildered Van Winkle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000591">The appearance of Rip,</span>
   <span id="f000592">with his long grizzled beard,</span>
   <span id="f000593">his rusty fowling-piece,</span>
   <span id="f000594">his uncouth dress,</span>
   <span id="f000595">and an army of women and children at his heels,</span>
   <span id="f000596">soon attracted the attention of the tavern politicians.</span>
   <span id="f000597">They crowded round him,</span>
   <span id="f000598">eyeing him from head to foot with great curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000599">The orator bustled up to him,</span>
   <span id="f000600">and,</span>
   <span id="f000601">drawing him partly aside,</span>
   <span id="f000602">inquired “on which side he voted?” Rip stared in vacant stupidity.</span>
   <span id="f000603">Another short but busy little fellow pulled him by the arm,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and,</span>
   <span id="f000605">rising on tiptoe,</span>
   <span id="f000606">inquired in his ear,</span>
   <span id="f000607">“Whether he was Federal or Democrat?” Rip was equally at a loss to comprehend the question;</span>
   <span id="f000608">when a knowing,</span>
   <span id="f000609">self-important old gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000610">in a sharp cocked hat,</span>
   <span id="f000611">made his way through the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000612">putting them to the right and left with his elbows as he passed,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and planting himself before Van Winkle,</span>
   <span id="f000614">with one arm akimbo,</span>
   <span id="f000615">the other resting on his cane,</span>
   <span id="f000616">his keen eyes and sharp hat penetrating,</span>
   <span id="f000617">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000618">into his very soul,</span>
   <span id="f000619">demanded in an austere tone,</span>
   <span id="f000620">“what brought him to the election with a gun on his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000621">and a mob at his heels,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and whether he meant to breed a riot in the village?”—“Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000623">gentlemen,” cried Rip,</span>
   <span id="f000624">somewhat dismayed,</span>
   <span id="f000625">“I am a poor quiet man,</span>
   <span id="f000626">a native of the place,</span>
   <span id="f000627">and a loyal subject of the king,</span>
   <span id="f000628">God bless him!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">Here a general shout burst from the by-standers—“A tory!</span>
   <span id="f000630">a tory!</span>
   <span id="f000631">a spy!</span>
   <span id="f000632">a refugee!</span>
   <span id="f000633">hustle him!</span>
   <span id="f000634">away with him!” It was with great difficulty that the self-important man in the cocked hat restored order;</span>
   <span id="f000635">and,</span>
   <span id="f000636">having assumed a tenfold austerity of brow,</span>
   <span id="f000637">demanded again of the unknown culprit,</span>
   <span id="f000638">what he came there for,</span>
   <span id="f000639">and whom he was seeking?</span>
   <span id="f000640">The poor man humbly assured him that he meant no harm,</span>
   <span id="f000641">but merely came there in search of some of his neighbors,</span>
   <span id="f000642">who used to keep about the tavern.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000643">“Well—who are they?—name them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000644">Rip bethought himself a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000645">and inquired,</span>
   <span id="f000646">“Where’s Nicholas Vedder?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000647">There was a silence for a little while,</span>
   <span id="f000648">when an old man replied,</span>
   <span id="f000649">in a thin piping voice,</span>
   <span id="f000650">“Nicholas Vedder!</span>
   <span id="f000651">why,</span>
   <span id="f000652">he is dead and gone these eighteen years!</span>
   <span id="f000653">There was a wooden tombstone in the church-yard that used to tell all about him,</span>
   <span id="f000654">but that’s rotten and gone too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">“Where’s Brom Dutcher?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000656">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000657">he went off to the army in the beginning of the war;</span>
   <span id="f000658">some say he was killed at the storming of Stony Point—others say he was drowned in a squall at the foot of Antony’s Nose.</span>
   <span id="f000659">I don’t know—he never came back again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000660">“Where’s Van Bummel,</span>
   <span id="f000661">the schoolmaster?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">“He went off to the wars too,</span>
   <span id="f000663">was a great militia general,</span>
   <span id="f000664">and is now in congress.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000665">Rip’s heart died away at hearing of these sad changes in his home and friends,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and finding himself thus alone in the world.</span>
   <span id="f000667">Every answer puzzled him too,</span>
   <span id="f000668">by treating of such enormous lapses of time,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and of matters which he could not understand:</span>
   <span id="f000670">war—congress—Stony Point;—he had no courage to ask after any more friends,</span>
   <span id="f000671">but cried out in despair,</span>
   <span id="f000672">“Does nobody here know Rip Van Winkle?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000673">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000674">Rip Van Winkle!” exclaimed two or three,</span>
   <span id="f000675">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000676">to be sure!</span>
   <span id="f000677">that’s Rip Van Winkle yonder,</span>
   <span id="f000678">leaning against the tree.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000679">Rip looked,</span>
   <span id="f000680">and beheld a precise counterpart of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000681">as he went up the mountain:</span>
   <span id="f000682">apparently as lazy,</span>
   <span id="f000683">and certainly as ragged.</span>
   <span id="f000684">The poor fellow was now completely confounded.</span>
   <span id="f000685">He doubted his own identity,</span>
   <span id="f000686">and whether he was himself or another man.</span>
   <span id="f000687">In the midst of his bewilderment,</span>
   <span id="f000688">the man in the cocked hat demanded who he was,</span>
   <span id="f000689">and what was his name?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000690">“God knows,” exclaimed he,</span>
   <span id="f000691">at his wit’s end;</span>
   <span id="f000692">“I’m not myself—I’m somebody else—that’s me yonder—no—that’s somebody else got into my shoes—I was myself last night,</span>
   <span id="f000693">but I fell asleep on the mountain,</span>
   <span id="f000694">and they’ve changed my gun,</span>
   <span id="f000695">and every thing’s changed,</span>
   <span id="f000696">and I’m changed,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and I can’t tell what’s my name,</span>
   <span id="f000698">or who I am!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000699">The by-standers began now to look at each other,</span>
   <span id="f000700">nod,</span>
   <span id="f000701">wink significantly,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and tap their fingers against their foreheads.</span>
   <span id="f000703">There was a whisper also,</span>
   <span id="f000704">about securing the gun,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and keeping the old fellow from doing mischief,</span>
   <span id="f000706">at the very suggestion of which the self-important man in the cocked hat retired with some precipitation.</span>
   <span id="f000707">At this critical moment a fresh comely woman pressed through the throng to get a peep at the gray-bearded man.</span>
   <span id="f000708">She had a chubby child in her arms,</span>
   <span id="f000709">which,</span>
   <span id="f000710">frightened at his looks,</span>
   <span id="f000711">began to cry.</span>
   <span id="f000712">“Hush,</span>
   <span id="f000713">Rip,” cried she,</span>
   <span id="f000714">“hush,</span>
   <span id="f000715">you little fool;</span>
   <span id="f000716">the old man won’t hurt you.” The name of the child,</span>
   <span id="f000717">the air of the mother,</span>
   <span id="f000718">the tone of her voice,</span>
   <span id="f000719">all awakened a train of recollections in his mind.</span>
   <span id="f000720">“What is your name,</span>
   <span id="f000721">my good woman?” asked he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000722">“Judith Gardenier.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000723">“And your father’s name?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000725">poor man,</span>
   <span id="f000726">Rip Van Winkle was his name,</span>
   <span id="f000727">but it’s twenty years since he went away from home with his gun,</span>
   <span id="f000728">and never has been heard of since—his dog came home without him;</span>
   <span id="f000729">but whether he shot himself,</span>
   <span id="f000730">or was carried away by the Indians,</span>
   <span id="f000731">nobody can tell.</span>
   <span id="f000732">I was then but a little girl.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000733">Rip had but one question more to ask;</span>
   <span id="f000734">but he put it with a faltering voice:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">“Where’s your mother?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000736">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000737">she too had died but a short time since;</span>
   <span id="f000738">she broke a blood-vessel in a fit of passion at a New-England peddler.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000739">There was a drop of comfort,</span>
   <span id="f000740">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000741">in this intelligence.</span>
   <span id="f000742">The honest man could contain himself no longer.</span>
   <span id="f000743">He caught his daughter and her child in his arms.</span>
   <span id="f000744">“I am your father!” cried he—“Young Rip Van Winkle once—old Rip Van Winkle now!—Does nobody know poor Rip Van Winkle?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">All stood amazed,</span>
   <span id="f000746">until an old woman,</span>
   <span id="f000747">tottering out from among the crowd,</span>
   <span id="f000748">put her hand to her brow,</span>
   <span id="f000749">and peering under it in his face for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000750">exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000751">“Sure enough!</span>
   <span id="f000752">it is Rip Van Winkle—it is himself!</span>
   <span id="f000753">Welcome home again,</span>
   <span id="f000754">old neighbor—Why,</span>
   <span id="f000755">where have you been these twenty long years?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000756">Rip’s story was soon told,</span>
   <span id="f000757">for the whole twenty years had been to him but as one night.</span>
   <span id="f000758">The neighbors stared when they heard it;</span>
   <span id="f000759">some were seen to wink at each other,</span>
   <span id="f000760">and put their tongues in their cheeks:</span>
   <span id="f000761">and the self-important man in the cocked hat,</span>
   <span id="f000762">who,</span>
   <span id="f000763">when the alarm was over,</span>
   <span id="f000764">had returned to the field,</span>
   <span id="f000765">screwed down the corners of his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000766">and shook his head—upon which there was a general shaking of the head throughout the assemblage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000767">It was determined,</span>
   <span id="f000768">however,</span>
   <span id="f000769">to take the opinion of old Peter Vanderdonk,</span>
   <span id="f000770">who was seen slowly advancing up the road.</span>
   <span id="f000771">He was a descendant of the historian of that name,</span>
   <span id="f000772">who wrote one of the earliest accounts of the province.</span>
   <span id="f000773">Peter was the most ancient inhabitant of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000774">and well versed in all the wonderful events and traditions of the neighborhood.</span>
   <span id="f000775">He recollected Rip at once,</span>
   <span id="f000776">and corroborated his story in the most satisfactory manner.</span>
   <span id="f000777">He assured the company that it was a fact,</span>
   <span id="f000778">handed down from his ancestor the historian,</span>
   <span id="f000779">that the Kaatskill mountains had always been haunted by strange beings.</span>
   <span id="f000780">That it was affirmed that the great Hendrick Hudson,</span>
   <span id="f000781">the first discoverer of the river and country,</span>
   <span id="f000782">kept a kind of vigil there every twenty years,</span>
   <span id="f000783">with his crew of the Half-moon;</span>
   <span id="f000784">being permitted in this way to revisit the scenes of his enterprise,</span>
   <span id="f000785">and keep a guardian eye upon the river,</span>
   <span id="f000786">and the great city called by his name.</span>
   <span id="f000787">That his father had once seen them in their old Dutch dresses playing at nine-pins in a hollow of the mountain;</span>
   <span id="f000788">and that he himself had heard,</span>
   <span id="f000789">one summer afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000790">the sound of their balls,</span>
   <span id="f000791">like distant peals of thunder.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000792">To make a long story short,</span>
   <span id="f000793">the company broke up,</span>
   <span id="f000794">and returned to the more important concerns of the election.</span>
   <span id="f000795">Rip’s daughter took him home to live with her;</span>
   <span id="f000796">she had a snug,</span>
   <span id="f000797">well-furnished house,</span>
   <span id="f000798">and a stout cheery farmer for a husband,</span>
   <span id="f000799">whom Rip recollected for one of the urchins that used to climb upon his back.</span>
   <span id="f000800">As to Rip’s son and heir,</span>
   <span id="f000801">who was the ditto of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000802">seen leaning against the tree,</span>
   <span id="f000803">he was employed to work on the farm;</span>
   <span id="f000804">but evinced an hereditary disposition to attend to anything else but his business.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000805">Rip now resumed his old walks and habits;</span>
   <span id="f000806">he soon found many of his former cronies,</span>
   <span id="f000807">though all rather the worse for the wear and tear of time;</span>
   <span id="f000808">and preferred making friends among the rising generation,</span>
   <span id="f000809">with whom he soon grew into great favor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000810">Having nothing to do at home,</span>
   <span id="f000811">and being arrived at that happy age when a man can be idle with impunity,</span>
   <span id="f000812">he took his place once more on the bench at the inn door,</span>
   <span id="f000813">and was reverenced as one of the patriarchs of the village,</span>
   <span id="f000814">and a chronicle of the old times “before the war.” It was some time before he could get into the regular track of gossip,</span>
   <span id="f000815">or could be made to comprehend the strange events that had taken place during his torpor.</span>
   <span id="f000816">How that there had been a revolutionary war—that the country had thrown off the yoke of old England—and that,</span>
   <span id="f000817">instead of being a subject of his Majesty George the Third,</span>
   <span id="f000818">he was now a free citizen of the United States.</span>
   <span id="f000819">Rip,</span>
   <span id="f000820">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000821">was no politician;</span>
   <span id="f000822">the changes of states and empires made but little impression on him;</span>
   <span id="f000823">but there was one species of despotism under which he had long groaned,</span>
   <span id="f000824">and that was—petticoat government.</span>
   <span id="f000825">Happily that was at an end;</span>
   <span id="f000826">he had got his neck out of the yoke of matrimony,</span>
   <span id="f000827">and could go in and out whenever he pleased,</span>
   <span id="f000828">without dreading the tyranny of Dame Van Winkle.</span>
   <span id="f000829">Whenever her name was mentioned,</span>
   <span id="f000830">however,</span>
   <span id="f000831">he shook his head,</span>
   <span id="f000832">shrugged his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and cast up his eyes;</span>
   <span id="f000834">which might pass either for an expression of resignation to his fate,</span>
   <span id="f000835">or joy at his deliverance.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000836">He used to tell his story to every stranger that arrived at Mr.&#160;Doolittle’s hotel.</span>
   <span id="f000837">He was observed,</span>
   <span id="f000838">at first,</span>
   <span id="f000839">to vary on some points every time he told it,</span>
   <span id="f000840">which was,</span>
   <span id="f000841">doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f000842">owing to his having so recently awaked.</span>
   <span id="f000843">It at last settled down precisely to the tale I have related,</span>
   <span id="f000844">and not a man,</span>
   <span id="f000845">woman,</span>
   <span id="f000846">or child in the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000847">but knew it by heart.</span>
   <span id="f000848">Some always pretended to doubt the reality of it,</span>
   <span id="f000849">and insisted that Rip had been out of his head,</span>
   <span id="f000850">and that this was one point on which he always remained flighty.</span>
   <span id="f000851">The old Dutch inhabitants,</span>
   <span id="f000852">however,</span>
   <span id="f000853">almost universally gave it full credit.</span>
   <span id="f000854">Even to this day they never hear a thunderstorm of a summer afternoon about the Kaatskill,</span>
   <span id="f000855">but they say Hendrick Hudson and his crew are at their game of nine-pins;</span>
   <span id="f000856">and it is a common wish of all hen-pecked husbands in the neighborhood,</span>
   <span id="f000857">when life hangs heavy on their hands,</span>
   <span id="f000858">that they might have a quieting draught out of Rip Van Winkle’s flagon.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

