<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Schempf</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">A Horseman in the Sky</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Ambrose Bierce</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">One sunny afternoon in the autumn of the year 1861,</span>
   <span id="f000008">a soldier lay in a clump of laurel by the side of a road in Western Virginia.</span>
   <span id="f000009">He lay at full length,</span>
   <span id="f000010">upon his stomach,</span>
   <span id="f000011">his feet resting upon the toes,</span>
   <span id="f000012">his head upon the left forearm.</span>
   <span id="f000013">His extended right hand loosely grasped his rifle.</span>
   <span id="f000014">But for the somewhat methodical disposition of his limbs and a slight rhythmic movement of the cartridge-box at the back of his belt,</span>
   <span id="f000015">he might have been thought to be dead.</span>
   <span id="f000016">He was asleep at his post of duty.</span>
   <span id="f000017">But if detected he would be dead shortly afterward,</span>
   <span id="f000018">that being the just and legal penalty of his crime.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">The clump of laurel in which the criminal lay was in the angle of a road which,</span>
   <span id="f000020">after,</span>
   <span id="f000021">ascending,</span>
   <span id="f000022">southward,</span>
   <span id="f000023">a steep acclivity to that point,</span>
   <span id="f000024">turned sharply to the west,</span>
   <span id="f000025">running along the summit for perhaps one hundred yards.</span>
   <span id="f000026">There it turned southward again and went zigzagging downward through the forest.</span>
   <span id="f000027">At the salient of that second angle was a large flat rock,</span>
   <span id="f000028">jutting out northward,</span>
   <span id="f000029">overlooking the deep valley from which the road ascended.</span>
   <span id="f000030">The rock capped a high cliff;</span>
   <span id="f000031">a stone dropped from its outer edge would have fallen sheer downward one thousand feet to the tops of the pines.</span>
   <span id="f000032">The angle where the soldier lay was on another spur of the same cliff.</span>
   <span id="f000033">Had he been awake,</span>
   <span id="f000034">he would have commanded a view,</span>
   <span id="f000035">not only of the short arm of the road and the jutting rock,</span>
   <span id="f000036">but of the entire profile of the cliff below it.</span>
   <span id="f000037">It might well have made him giddy to look.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">The country was wooded everywhere except at the bottom of the valley to the northward,</span>
   <span id="f000039">where there was a small natural meadow,</span>
   <span id="f000040">through which flowed a stream scarcely visible from the valley’s rim.</span>
   <span id="f000041">This open ground looked hardly larger than an ordinary dooryard,</span>
   <span id="f000042">but was really several acres in extent.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Its green was more vivid than that of the inclosing forest.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Away beyond it rose a line of giant cliffs similar to those upon which we are supposed to stand in our survey of the savage scene,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and through which the road had some how made its climb to the summit.</span>
   <span id="f000046">The configuration of the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000047">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000048">was such that from this point of observation it seemed entirely shut in,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and one could not but have wondered how the road which found a way out of it had found a way into it,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and whence came and whither went the waters of the stream that parted the meadow two thousand feet below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">No country is so wild and difficult but men will make it a theater of war;</span>
   <span id="f000052">concealed in the forest at the bottom of that military rat-trap,</span>
   <span id="f000053">in which half a hundred men in possession of the exits might have starved an army to submission,</span>
   <span id="f000054">lay five regiments of Federal infantry.</span>
   <span id="f000055">They had marched all the previous day and night,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and were resting.</span>
   <span id="f000057">At nightfall they would take to the road again,</span>
   <span id="f000058">climb to the place where their unfaithful sentinel now slept,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and,</span>
   <span id="f000060">descending the other slope of the ridge,</span>
   <span id="f000061">fall upon a camp of the enemy at about midnight.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Their hope was to surprise it,</span>
   <span id="f000063">for the road led to the rear of it.</span>
   <span id="f000064">In case of failure,</span>
   <span id="f000065">their position would be perilous in the extreme;</span>
   <span id="f000066">and fail they surely would,</span>
   <span id="f000067">should accident or vigilance apprise the enemy of the movement.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">The sleeping sentinel in the clump of laurel was a young Virginian named Carter Druse.</span>
   <span id="f000069">He was the son of wealthy parents,</span>
   <span id="f000070">an only child,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and had known such ease and cultivation and high living as wealth and taste were able to command in the mountain country of Western Virginia.</span>
   <span id="f000072">His home was but a few miles from where he now lay.</span>
   <span id="f000073">One morning he had risen from the breakfast table and said,</span>
   <span id="f000074">quietly but gravely:</span>
   <span id="f000075">“Father,</span>
   <span id="f000076">a Union regiment has arrived at Grafton.</span>
   <span id="f000077">I am going to join it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">The father lifted his leonine head,</span>
   <span id="f000079">looked at the son a moment in silence,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and replied:</span>
   <span id="f000081">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000082">go,</span>
   <span id="f000083">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and,</span>
   <span id="f000085">whatever may occur,</span>
   <span id="f000086">do what you conceive to be your duty.</span>
   <span id="f000087">Virginia,</span>
   <span id="f000088">to which you are a traitor,</span>
   <span id="f000089">must get on without you.</span>
   <span id="f000090">Should we both live to the end of the war,</span>
   <span id="f000091">we will speak further of the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000092">Your mother,</span>
   <span id="f000093">as the physician has informed you,</span>
   <span id="f000094">is in a most critical condition;</span>
   <span id="f000095">at the best,</span>
   <span id="f000096">she cannot be with us longer than a few weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but that time is precious.</span>
   <span id="f000098">It would be better not to disturb her.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">So Carter Druse,</span>
   <span id="f000100">bowing reverently to his father,</span>
   <span id="f000101">who returned the salute with a stately courtesy which masked a breaking heart,</span>
   <span id="f000102">left the home of his childhood to go soldiering.</span>
   <span id="f000103">By conscience and courage,</span>
   <span id="f000104">by deeds of devotion and daring,</span>
   <span id="f000105">he soon commended himself to his fellows and his officers;</span>
   <span id="f000106">and it was to these qualities and to some knowledge of the country that he owed his selection for his present perilous duty at the extreme outpost.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000108">fatigue had been stronger than resolution,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and he had fallen asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000110">What good or bad angel came in a dream to rouse him from his state of crime,</span>
   <span id="f000111">who shall say?</span>
   <span id="f000112">Without a movement,</span>
   <span id="f000113">without a sound,</span>
   <span id="f000114">in the profound silence and the languor of the late afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000115">some invisible messenger of fate touched with unsealing finger the eyes of his consciousness – whispered into the ear of his spirit the mysterious awakening word which no human lips ever have spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000116">no human memory ever has recalled.</span>
   <span id="f000117">He quietly raised his forehead from his arm and looked between the masking stems of the laurels,</span>
   <span id="f000118">instinctively closing his right hand about the stock of his rifle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">His first feeling was a keen artistic delight.</span>
   <span id="f000120">On a colossal pedestal,</span>
   <span id="f000121">the cliff,</span>
   <span id="f000122">– motionless at the extreme edge of the capping rock and sharply outlined against the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000123">– was an equestrian statue of impressive dignity.</span>
   <span id="f000124">The figure of the man sat the figure of the horse,</span>
   <span id="f000125">straight and soldierly,</span>
   <span id="f000126">but with the repose of a Grecian god carted in the marble which limits the suggestion of activity.</span>
   <span id="f000127">The gray costume harmonized with its aerial background;</span>
   <span id="f000128">the metal of accoutrement and caparison was softened and subdued by the shadow;</span>
   <span id="f000129">the animal’s skin had no points of high light.</span>
   <span id="f000130">A carbine,</span>
   <span id="f000131">strikingly foreshortened,</span>
   <span id="f000132">lay across the pommel of the saddle,</span>
   <span id="f000133">kept in place by the right hand grasping it at the “grip”;</span>
   <span id="f000134">the left hand,</span>
   <span id="f000135">holding the bridle rein,</span>
   <span id="f000136">was invisible.</span>
   <span id="f000137">In silhouette against the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000138">the profile of the horse was cut with the sharpness of a cameo;</span>
   <span id="f000139">it looked across the heights of air to the confronting cliffs beyond.</span>
   <span id="f000140">The face of the rider,</span>
   <span id="f000141">turned slightly away,</span>
   <span id="f000142">showed only an outline of temple and beard;</span>
   <span id="f000143">he was looking downward to the bottom of the valley.</span>
   <span id="f000144">Magnified by its lift against the sky and by the soldier’s testifying sense of the formidableness of a near enemy,</span>
   <span id="f000145">the group appeared of heroic,</span>
   <span id="f000146">almost colossal,</span>
   <span id="f000147">size.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">For an instant Druse had a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000149">half-defined feeling that he had slept to the end of the war and was looking upon a noble work of art reared upon that commanding eminence to commemorate the deeds of an heroic past of which he had been an inglorious part.</span>
   <span id="f000150">The feeling was dispelled by a slight movement of the group:</span>
   <span id="f000151">the horse,</span>
   <span id="f000152">without moving its feet,</span>
   <span id="f000153">had drawn its body slightly backward from the verge;</span>
   <span id="f000154">the man remained immobile as before.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Broad awake and keenly alive to the significance of the situation,</span>
   <span id="f000156">Druse now brought the butt of his rifle against his cheek by cautiously pushing the barrel forward through the bushes,</span>
   <span id="f000157">cocked the piece,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and,</span>
   <span id="f000159">glancing through the sights,</span>
   <span id="f000160">covered a vital spot of the horseman’s breast.</span>
   <span id="f000161">A touch upon the trigger and all would have been well with Carter Druse.</span>
   <span id="f000162">At that instant the horseman turned his head and looked in the direction of his concealed foeman – seemed to look into his very face,</span>
   <span id="f000163">into his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000164">into his brave,</span>
   <span id="f000165">compassionate heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">Is it,</span>
   <span id="f000167">then,</span>
   <span id="f000168">so terrible to kill an enemy in war – an enemy who has surprised a secret vital to the safety of one’s self and comrades – an enemy more formidable for his knowledge than all his army for its numbers?</span>
   <span id="f000169">Carter Druse grew pale;</span>
   <span id="f000170">he shook in every limb,</span>
   <span id="f000171">turned faint,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and saw the statuesque group before him as black figures,</span>
   <span id="f000173">rising,</span>
   <span id="f000174">falling,</span>
   <span id="f000175">moving unsteadily in arcs of circles in a fiery sky.</span>
   <span id="f000176">His hand fell away from his weapon,</span>
   <span id="f000177">his head slowly dropped until his face rested on the leaves in which he lay.</span>
   <span id="f000178">This courageous gentleman and hardy soldier was near swooning from intensity of emotion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">It was not for long;</span>
   <span id="f000180">in another moment his face was raised from earth,</span>
   <span id="f000181">his hands resumed their places on the rifle,</span>
   <span id="f000182">his forefinger sought the trigger;</span>
   <span id="f000183">mind,</span>
   <span id="f000184">heart and eyes were clear,</span>
   <span id="f000185">conscience and reason sound.</span>
   <span id="f000186">He could not hope to capture that enemy;</span>
   <span id="f000187">to alarm him would but send him dashing to his camp with his fatal news.</span>
   <span id="f000188">The duty of the soldier was plain:</span>
   <span id="f000189">the man must be shot dead from ambush – without warning,</span>
   <span id="f000190">without a moment’s spiritual preparation,</span>
   <span id="f000191">with never so much as an unspoken prayer,</span>
   <span id="f000192">he must be sent to his account.</span>
   <span id="f000193">But no – there is a hope;</span>
   <span id="f000194">he may have discovered nothing;</span>
   <span id="f000195">perhaps he is but admiring the sublimity of the landscape.</span>
   <span id="f000196">If permitted,</span>
   <span id="f000197">he may turn and ride carelessly away in the direction whence he came.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Surely it will be possible to judge at the instant of his withdrawing whether he knows.</span>
   <span id="f000199">It may well be that his fixity of attention – Druse turned his head and looked through the deeps of air downward as from the surface of the bottom of a translucent sea.</span>
   <span id="f000200">He saw creeping across the green meadow a sinuous line of figures of men and horses – some foolish commander was permitting the soldiers of his escort to water their beasts in the open,</span>
   <span id="f000201">in plain view from a hundred summits!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">Druse withdrew his eyes from the valley and fixed them again upon the group of man and horse in the sky,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and again it was through the sights of his rifle.</span>
   <span id="f000204">But this time his aim was at the horse.</span>
   <span id="f000205">In his memory,</span>
   <span id="f000206">as if they were a divine mandate,</span>
   <span id="f000207">rang the words of his father at their parting:</span>
   <span id="f000208">“Whatever may occur,</span>
   <span id="f000209">do what you conceive to be your duty.” He was calm now.</span>
   <span id="f000210">His teeth were firmly but not rigidly closed;</span>
   <span id="f000211">his nerves were as tranquil as a sleeping babe’s – not a tremor affected any muscle of his body;</span>
   <span id="f000212">his breathing,</span>
   <span id="f000213">until suspended in the act of taking aim,</span>
   <span id="f000214">was regular and slow.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Duty had conquered;</span>
   <span id="f000216">the spirit had said to the body:</span>
   <span id="f000217">“Peace,</span>
   <span id="f000218">be still.” He fired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">An officer of the Federal force,</span>
   <span id="f000220">who,</span>
   <span id="f000221">in a spirit of adventure or in quest of knowledge,</span>
   <span id="f000222">had left the hidden bivouac in the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000223">and,</span>
   <span id="f000224">with aimless feet,</span>
   <span id="f000225">had made his way to the lower edge of a small open space near the foot of the cliff,</span>
   <span id="f000226">was considering what he had to gain by pushing his exploration further.</span>
   <span id="f000227">At a distance of a quarter-mile before him,</span>
   <span id="f000228">but apparently at a stone’s throw,</span>
   <span id="f000229">rose from its fringe of pines the gigantic face of rock,</span>
   <span id="f000230">towering to so great a height above him that it made him giddy to look up to where its edge cut a sharp,</span>
   <span id="f000231">rugged line against the sky.</span>
   <span id="f000232">At some distance away to his right it presented a clean,</span>
   <span id="f000233">vertical profile against a background of blue sky to a point half the way down,</span>
   <span id="f000234">and of distant hills hardly less blue,</span>
   <span id="f000235">thence to the tops of the trees at its base.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Lifting his eyes to the dizzy altitude of its summit,</span>
   <span id="f000237">the officer saw an astonishing sight – a man on horseback riding down into the valley through the air!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">Straight upright sat the rider,</span>
   <span id="f000239">in military fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000240">with a firm seat in the saddle,</span>
   <span id="f000241">a strong clutch upon the rein to hold his charger from too impetuous a plunge.</span>
   <span id="f000242">From his bare head his long hair streamed upward,</span>
   <span id="f000243">waving like a plume.</span>
   <span id="f000244">His hands were concealed in the cloud of the horse’s lifted mane.</span>
   <span id="f000245">The animal’s body was as level as if every hoof-stroke encountered the resistant earth.</span>
   <span id="f000246">Its motions were those of a wild gallop,</span>
   <span id="f000247">but even as the officer looked they ceased,</span>
   <span id="f000248">with all the legs thrown sharply forward as in the act of alighting from a leap.</span>
   <span id="f000249">But this was a flight!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000250">Filled with amazement and terror by this apparition of a horseman in the sky-half believing himself the chosen scribe of some new apocalypse,</span>
   <span id="f000251">the officer was overcome by the intensity of his emotions;</span>
   <span id="f000252">his legs failed him and he fell.</span>
   <span id="f000253">Almost at the same instant he heard a crashing sound in the trees – a sound that died without an echo – and all was still.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">The officer rose to his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000255">trembling.</span>
   <span id="f000256">The familiar sensation of an abraded shin recalled his dazed faculties.</span>
   <span id="f000257">Pulling himself together,</span>
   <span id="f000258">he ran obliquely away from the cliff to a point distant from its foot;</span>
   <span id="f000259">thereabout he expected to find his man;</span>
   <span id="f000260">and thereabout he naturally failed.</span>
   <span id="f000261">In the fleeting instant of his vision his imagination had been so wrought upon by the apparent grace and ease and intention of the marvelous performance that it did not occur to him that the line of march of aerial cavalry is directly downward,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and that he could find the objects of his search at the very foot of the cliff.</span>
   <span id="f000263">A half-hour later he returned to camp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">This officer was a wise man;</span>
   <span id="f000265">he knew better than to tell an incredible truth.</span>
   <span id="f000266">He said nothing of what he had seen.</span>
   <span id="f000267">But when the commander asked him if in his scout he had learned anything of advantage to the expedition,</span>
   <span id="f000268">he answered:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000270">sir;</span>
   <span id="f000271">there is no road leading down into this valley from the southward.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">The commander,</span>
   <span id="f000273">knowing better,</span>
   <span id="f000274">smiled.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">After firing his shot,</span>
   <span id="f000276">Private Carter Druse reloaded his rifle and resumed his watch.</span>
   <span id="f000277">Ten minutes had hardly passed when a Federal sergeant crept cautiously to him on hands and knees.</span>
   <span id="f000278">Druse neither turned his head nor looked at him,</span>
   <span id="f000279">but lay without motion or sign of recognition.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“Did you fire?” the sergeant whispered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">“At what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“A horse.</span>
   <span id="f000283">It was standing on yonder rock-pretty far out.</span>
   <span id="f000284">You see it is no longer there.</span>
   <span id="f000285">It went over the cliff.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">The man’s face was white,</span>
   <span id="f000287">but he showed no other sign of emotion.</span>
   <span id="f000288">Having answered,</span>
   <span id="f000289">he turned away his eyes and said no more.</span>
   <span id="f000290">The sergeant did not understand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“See here,</span>
   <span id="f000292">Druse,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000293">after a moment’s silence,</span>
   <span id="f000294">“it’s no use making a mystery.</span>
   <span id="f000295">I order you to report.</span>
   <span id="f000296">Was there anybody on the horse?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">“Yes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">“Well?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“My father.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000300">The sergeant rose to his feet and walked away.</span>
   <span id="f000301">“Good God!” he said.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

