<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Rosie</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">Xingu</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edith Wharton</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000007">I</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000008">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger is one of the ladies who pursue Culture in bands,</span>
   <span id="f000009">as though it were dangerous to meet alone.</span>
   <span id="f000010">To this end she had founded the Lunch Club,</span>
   <span id="f000011">an association composed of herself and several other indomitable huntresses of erudition.</span>
   <span id="f000012">The Lunch Club,</span>
   <span id="f000013">after three or four winters of lunching and debate,</span>
   <span id="f000014">had acquired such local distinction that the entertainment of distinguished strangers became one of its accepted functions;</span>
   <span id="f000015">in recognition of which it duly extended to the celebrated “Osric Dane,” on the day of her arrival in Hillbridge,</span>
   <span id="f000016">an invitation to be present at the next meeting.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000017">The club was to meet at Mrs.&#160;Bellinger’s.</span>
   <span id="f000018">The other members,</span>
   <span id="f000019">behind her back,</span>
   <span id="f000020">were of one voice in deploring her unwillingness to cede her rights in favor of Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000021">whose house made a more impressive setting for the entertainment of celebrities;</span>
   <span id="f000022">while,</span>
   <span id="f000023">as Mrs.&#160;Leveret observed,</span>
   <span id="f000024">there was always the picture-gallery to fall back on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">Mrs.&#160;Plinth made no secret of sharing this view.</span>
   <span id="f000026">She had always regarded it as one of her obligations to entertain the Lunch Club’s distinguished guests.</span>
   <span id="f000027">Mrs.&#160;Plinth was almost as proud of her obligations as she was of her picture-gallery;</span>
   <span id="f000028">she was in fact fond of implying that the one possession implied the other,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and that only a woman of her wealth could afford to live up to a standard as high as that which she had set herself.</span>
   <span id="f000030">An all-round sense of duty,</span>
   <span id="f000031">roughly adaptable to various ends,</span>
   <span id="f000032">was,</span>
   <span id="f000033">in her opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000034">all that Providence exacted of the more humbly stationed;</span>
   <span id="f000035">but the power which had predestined Mrs.&#160;Plinth to keep a footman clearly intended her to maintain an equally specialized staff of responsibilities.</span>
   <span id="f000036">It was the more to be regretted that Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000037">whose obligations to society were bounded by the narrow scope of two parlour-maids,</span>
   <span id="f000038">should have been so tenacious of the right to entertain Osric Dane.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000039">The question of that lady’s reception had for a month past profoundly moved the members of the Lunch Club.</span>
   <span id="f000040">It was not that they felt themselves unequal to the task,</span>
   <span id="f000041">but that their sense of the opportunity plunged them into the agreeable uncertainty of the lady who weighs the alternatives of a well-stocked wardrobe.</span>
   <span id="f000042">If such subsidiary members as Mrs.&#160;Leveret were fluttered by the thought of exchanging ideas with the author of “The Wings of Death,” no forebodings disturbed the conscious adequacy of Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000043">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger and Miss Van Vluyck.</span>
   <span id="f000044">“The Wings of Death” had,</span>
   <span id="f000045">in fact,</span>
   <span id="f000046">at Miss Van Vluyck’s suggestion,</span>
   <span id="f000047">been chosen as the subject of discussion at the last club meeting,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and each member had thus been enabled to express her own opinion or to appropriate whatever sounded well in the comments of the others.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">Mrs.&#160;Roby alone had abstained from profiting by the opportunity;</span>
   <span id="f000050">but it was now openly recognised that,</span>
   <span id="f000051">as a member of the Lunch Club,</span>
   <span id="f000052">Mrs.&#160;Roby was a failure.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“It all comes,” as Miss Van Vluyck put it,</span>
   <span id="f000054">“of accepting a woman on a man’s estimation.” Mrs.&#160;Roby,</span>
   <span id="f000055">returning to Hillbridge from a prolonged sojourn in exotic lands – the other ladies no longer took the trouble to remember where – had been heralded by the distinguished biologist,</span>
   <span id="f000056">Professor Foreland,</span>
   <span id="f000057">as the most agreeable woman he had ever met;</span>
   <span id="f000058">and the members of the Lunch Club,</span>
   <span id="f000059">impressed by an encomium that carried the weight of a diploma,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and rashly assuming that the Professor’s social sympathies would follow the line of his professional bent,</span>
   <span id="f000061">had seized the chance of annexing a biological member.</span>
   <span id="f000062">Their disillusionment was complete.</span>
   <span id="f000063">At Miss Van Vluyck’s first off-hand mention of the pterodactyl Mrs.&#160;Roby had confusedly murmured:</span>
   <span id="f000064">“I know so little about metres – ” and after that painful betrayal of incompetence she had prudently withdrawn from farther participation in the mental gymnastics of the club.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“I suppose she flattered him,” Miss Van Vluyck summed up – “or else it’s the way she does her hair.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">The dimensions of Miss Van Vluyck’s dining-room having restricted the membership of the club to six,</span>
   <span id="f000067">the nonconductiveness of one member was a serious obstacle to the exchange of ideas,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and some wonder had already been expressed that Mrs.&#160;Roby should care to live,</span>
   <span id="f000069">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000070">on the intellectual bounty of the others.</span>
   <span id="f000071">This feeling was increased by the discovery that she had not yet read “The Wings of Death.” She owned to having heard the name of Osric Dane;</span>
   <span id="f000072">but that – incredible as it appeared – was the extent of her acquaintance with the celebrated novelist.</span>
   <span id="f000073">The ladies could not conceal their surprise;</span>
   <span id="f000074">but Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000075">whose pride in the club made her wish to put even Mrs.&#160;Roby in the best possible light,</span>
   <span id="f000076">gently insinuated that,</span>
   <span id="f000077">though she had not had time to acquaint herself with “The Wings of Death,” she must at least be familiar with its equally remarkable predecessor,</span>
   <span id="f000078">“The Supreme Instant.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">Mrs.&#160;Roby wrinkled her sunny brows in a conscientious effort of memory,</span>
   <span id="f000080">as a result of which she recalled that,</span>
   <span id="f000081">oh,</span>
   <span id="f000082">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000083">she <em>had</em> seen the book at her brother’s,</span>
   <span id="f000084">when she was staying with him in Brazil,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and had even carried it off to read one day on a boating party;</span>
   <span id="f000086">but they had all got to shying things at each other in the boat,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and the book had gone overboard,</span>
   <span id="f000088">so she had never had the chance –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">The picture evoked by this anecdote did not increase Mrs.&#160;Roby’s credit with the club,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and there was a painful pause,</span>
   <span id="f000091">which was broken by Mrs.&#160;Plinth’s remarking:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“I can understand that,</span>
   <span id="f000093">with all your other pursuits,</span>
   <span id="f000094">you should not find much time for reading;</span>
   <span id="f000095">but I should have thought you might at least have <em>got up</em> ’The Wings of Death’ before Osric Dane’s arrival.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">Mrs.&#160;Roby took this rebuke good-humouredly.</span>
   <span id="f000097">She had meant,</span>
   <span id="f000098">she owned,</span>
   <span id="f000099">to glance through the book;</span>
   <span id="f000100">but she had been so absorbed in a novel of Trollope’s that –</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“No one reads Trollope now,” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger interrupted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">Mrs.&#160;Roby looked pained.</span>
   <span id="f000103">“I’m only just beginning,” she confessed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">“And does he interest you?” Mrs.&#160;Plinth enquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“He amuses me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">“Amusement,” said Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000107">“is hardly what I look for in my choice of books.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000109">certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000110">’The Wings of Death’ is not amusing,” ventured Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000111">whose manner of putting forth an opinion was like that of an obliging salesman with a variety of other styles to submit if his first selection does not suit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">“Was it <em>meant</em> to be?” enquired Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000113">who was fond of asking questions that she permitted no one but herself to answer.</span>
   <span id="f000114">“Assuredly not.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000115">“Assuredly not – that is what I was going to say,” assented Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000116">hastily rolling up her opinion and reaching for another.</span>
   <span id="f000117">“It was meant to – to elevate.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">Miss Van Vluyck adjusted her spectacles as though they were the black cap of condemnation.</span>
   <span id="f000119">“I hardly see,” she interposed,</span>
   <span id="f000120">“how a book steeped in the bitterest pessimism can be said to elevate however much it may instruct.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“I meant,</span>
   <span id="f000122">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000123">to instruct,” said Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000124">flurried by the unexpected distinction between two terms which she had supposed to be synonymous.</span>
   <span id="f000125">Mrs.&#160;Leveret’s enjoyment of the Lunch Club was frequently marred by such surprises;</span>
   <span id="f000126">and not knowing her own value to the other ladies as a mirror for their mental complacency she was sometimes troubled by a doubt of her worthiness to join in their debates.</span>
   <span id="f000127">It was only the fact of having a dull sister who thought her clever that saved her,</span>
   <span id="f000128">from a sense of hopeless inferiority.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“Do they get married in the end?” Mrs.&#160;Roby interposed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“They – who?” the Lunch Club collectively exclaimed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000132">the girl and man.</span>
   <span id="f000133">It’s a novel,</span>
   <span id="f000134">isn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000135">I always think that’s the one thing that matters.</span>
   <span id="f000136">If they’re parted it spoils my dinner.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">Mrs.&#160;Plinth and Mrs.&#160;Ballinger exchanged scandalised glances,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and the latter said:</span>
   <span id="f000139">“I should hardly advise you to read ’The Wings of Death’ in that spirit.</span>
   <span id="f000140">For my part,</span>
   <span id="f000141">when there are so many books one <em>has</em> to read;</span>
   <span id="f000142">I wonder how any one can find time for those that are merely amusing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“The beautiful part of it,” Laura Glyde murmured,</span>
   <span id="f000144">“is surely just this – that no one can tell how ’The Wings of Death’ ends.</span>
   <span id="f000145">Osric Dane,</span>
   <span id="f000146">overcome by the awful significance of her own meaning,</span>
   <span id="f000147">has mercifully veiled it – perhaps even from herself – as Apelles,</span>
   <span id="f000148">in representing the sacrifice of Iphigenia,</span>
   <span id="f000149">veiled the face or Agamemnon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">“What’s that?</span>
   <span id="f000151">Is it poetry?” whispered Mrs.&#160;Leveret to Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000152">who,</span>
   <span id="f000153">disdaining a definite reply,</span>
   <span id="f000154">said coldly:</span>
   <span id="f000155">“You should look it up.</span>
   <span id="f000156">I always make it a point to look things up.” Her tone added – “though I might easily have it done for me by the footman.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">“I was about to say,” Miss Van Vluyck resumed,</span>
   <span id="f000158">“that it must always be a question whether a book <em>can</em> instruct unless it elevates.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000159">“Oh – ” murmured Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000160">now feeling herself hopelessly astray.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“I don’t know,” said Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000162">scenting in Miss Van Vluyck’s tone a tendency to depreciate the coveted distinction of entertaining Osric Dane;</span>
   <span id="f000163">“I don’t know that such a question can seriously be raised as to a book which has attracted more attention among thoughtful people than any novel since ’Robert Elsmere.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000165">but don’t you see,” exclaimed Laura Glyde,</span>
   <span id="f000166">“that it’s just the dark hopelessness of it all – the wonderful tone-scheme of black on black – that makes it such an artistic achievement?</span>
   <span id="f000167">It reminded me when I read it of Prince Rupert’s <em>manière noire</em>…</span>
   <span id="f000168">the book is etched,</span>
   <span id="f000169">not painted,</span>
   <span id="f000170">yet one feels the colour-values so intensely…</span>
   <span id="f000171">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000172">“Who is he?” Mrs.&#160;Leveret whispered to her neighbour.</span>
   <span id="f000173">“Some one she’s met abroad?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">“The wonderful part of the book,” Mrs.&#160;Bellinger conceded,</span>
   <span id="f000175">“is that it may be looked at from so many points of view.</span>
   <span id="f000176">I hear that as a study of determinism Professor Lupton ranks it with ’The Data of Ethics.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“I’m told that Osric Dane spent ten years in preparatory studies before beginning to write it,” said Mrs.&#160;Plinth.</span>
   <span id="f000178">“She looks up everything – verifies everything.</span>
   <span id="f000179">It has always been my principle,</span>
   <span id="f000180">as you know.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Nothing would induce me,</span>
   <span id="f000182">now,</span>
   <span id="f000183">to put aside a book before I’d finished it,</span>
   <span id="f000184">just because I can buy as many more as I want.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">“And what do <em>you</em> think of ’The Wings of Death’?” Mrs.&#160;Roby abruptly asked her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">It was the kind of question that might be termed out of order,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and the ladies glanced at each other as though disclaiming any share in such a breach of discipline.</span>
   <span id="f000188">They all knew there was nothing Mrs.&#160;Plinth so much disliked as being asked her opinion of a book.</span>
   <span id="f000189">Books were written to read;</span>
   <span id="f000190">if one read them what more could be expected?</span>
   <span id="f000191">To be questioned in detail regarding the contents of a volume seemed to her as great an outrage as being searched for smuggled laces at the Custom House.</span>
   <span id="f000192">The club had always respected this idiosyncrasy of Mrs.&#160;Plinth’s.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Such opinions as she had were imposing and substantial:</span>
   <span id="f000194">her mind,</span>
   <span id="f000195">like her house,</span>
   <span id="f000196">was furnished with monumental “pieces” that were not meant to be disarranged;</span>
   <span id="f000197">and it was one of the unwritten rules of the Lunch Club that,</span>
   <span id="f000198">within her own province,</span>
   <span id="f000199">each member’s habits of thought should be respected.</span>
   <span id="f000200">The meeting therefore closed with an increased sense,</span>
   <span id="f000201">on the part of the other ladies,</span>
   <span id="f000202">of Mrs.&#160;Roby’s hopeless unfitness to be one of them.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000203">II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000204">Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000205">on the eventful day,</span>
   <span id="f000206">arrived early at Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s,</span>
   <span id="f000207">her volume of Appropriate Allusions in her pocket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">It always flustered Mrs.&#160;Leveret to be late at the Lunch Club:</span>
   <span id="f000209">she liked to collect her thoughts and gather a hint,</span>
   <span id="f000210">as the others assembled,</span>
   <span id="f000211">of the turn the conversation was likely to take.</span>
   <span id="f000212">To-day,</span>
   <span id="f000213">however,</span>
   <span id="f000214">she felt herself completely at a loss;</span>
   <span id="f000215">and even the familiar contact of Appropriate Allusions,</span>
   <span id="f000216">which stuck into her as she sat down,</span>
   <span id="f000217">failed to give her any reassurance.</span>
   <span id="f000218">It was an admirable little volume,</span>
   <span id="f000219">compiled to meet all the social emergencies;</span>
   <span id="f000220">so that,</span>
   <span id="f000221">whether on the occasion of Anniversaries,</span>
   <span id="f000222">joyful or melancholy</span>
   <span id="f000223">(as the classification ran),</span>
   <span id="f000224">of Banquets,</span>
   <span id="f000225">social or municipal,</span>
   <span id="f000226">or of Baptisms,</span>
   <span id="f000227">Church of England or sectarian,</span>
   <span id="f000228">its student need never be at a loss for a pertinent reference.</span>
   <span id="f000229">Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000230">though she had for years devoutly conned its pages,</span>
   <span id="f000231">valued it,</span>
   <span id="f000232">however,</span>
   <span id="f000233">rather for its moral support than for its practical services;</span>
   <span id="f000234">for though in the privacy of her own room she commanded an army of quotations,</span>
   <span id="f000235">these invariably deserted her at the critical moment,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and the only phrase she retained – <em>Canst thou draw out leviathan with a hook</em>?</span>
   <span id="f000237">– was one she had never yet found occasion to apply.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">To-day she felt that even the complete mastery of the volume would hardly have insured her self-possession;</span>
   <span id="f000239">for she thought it probable that,</span>
   <span id="f000240">even if she <em>did</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000241">in some miraculous way,</span>
   <span id="f000242">remember an Allusion,</span>
   <span id="f000243">it would be only to find that Osric Dane used a different volume</span>
   <span id="f000244">(Mrs.&#160;Leveret was convinced that literary people always carried them),</span>
   <span id="f000245">and would consequently not recognise her quotations.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000246">Mrs.&#160;Leveret’s sense of being adrift was intensified by the appearance of Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s drawing-room.</span>
   <span id="f000247">To a careless eye its aspect was unchanged;</span>
   <span id="f000248">but those acquainted with Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s way of arranging her books would instantly have detected the marks of recent perturbation.</span>
   <span id="f000249">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s province,</span>
   <span id="f000250">as a member of the Lunch Club,</span>
   <span id="f000251">was the Book of the Day.</span>
   <span id="f000252">On that,</span>
   <span id="f000253">whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f000254">from a novel to a treatise on experimental psychology,</span>
   <span id="f000255">she was confidently,</span>
   <span id="f000256">authoritatively “up.” What became of last year’s books,</span>
   <span id="f000257">or last week’s even;</span>
   <span id="f000258">what she did with the “subjects” she had previously professed with equal authority;</span>
   <span id="f000259">no one had ever yet discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000260">’Her mind was an hotel where facts came and went like transient lodgers,</span>
   <span id="f000261">without leaving their address behind,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and frequently without paying for their board.</span>
   <span id="f000263">It was Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s boast that she was “abreast with the Thought of the Day,” and her pride that this advanced position should be expressed by the books on her table.</span>
   <span id="f000264">These volumes,</span>
   <span id="f000265">frequently renewed,</span>
   <span id="f000266">and almost always damp from the press,</span>
   <span id="f000267">bore names generally unfamiliar to Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and giving her,</span>
   <span id="f000269">as she furtively scanned them,</span>
   <span id="f000270">a disheartening glimpse of new fields of knowledge to be breathlessly traversed in Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s wake.</span>
   <span id="f000271">But to-day a number of maturer-looking volumes were adroitly mingled with the <em>primeurs</em> of the press – Karl Marx jostled Professor Bergson,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and the “Confessions of St.&#160;Augustine” lay beside the last work on “Mendelism”;</span>
   <span id="f000273">so that even to Mrs.&#160;Leveret’s fluttered perceptions it was clear that Mrs.&#160;Ballinger didn’t in the least know what Osric Dane was likely to talk about,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and had taken measures to be prepared for anything.</span>
   <span id="f000275">Mrs.&#160;Leveret felt like a passenger on an ocean steamer who is told that there is no immediate danger,</span>
   <span id="f000276">but that she had better put on her life-belt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">It was a relief to be roused from these forebodings by Miss Van Vluyck’s arrival.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000279">my dear,” the new-comer briskly asked her hostess,</span>
   <span id="f000280">“what subjects are we to discuss to-day?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger was furtively replacing a volume of Wordsworth by a copy of Verlaine.</span>
   <span id="f000282">“I hardly know,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000283">somewhat nervously.</span>
   <span id="f000284">“Perhaps we had better leave that to circumstances.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">“Circumstances?” said Miss Van Vluyck drily.</span>
   <span id="f000286">“That means,</span>
   <span id="f000287">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000288">that Laura Glyde will take the floor as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and we shall be deluged with literature.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">Philanthropy and statistics were Miss Van Vluyck’s province,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and she resented any tendency to divert their guest’s attention from these topics.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">Mrs.&#160;Plinth at this moment appeared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000293">“Literature?” she protested in a tone of remonstrance.</span>
   <span id="f000294">“But this is perfectly unexpected.</span>
   <span id="f000295">I understood we were to talk of Osric Dane’s novel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger winced at the discrimination,</span>
   <span id="f000297">but let it pass.</span>
   <span id="f000298">“We can hardly make that our chief subject – at least not <em>too</em> intentionally,” she suggested.</span>
   <span id="f000299">“Of course we can let our talk <em>drift</em> in that direction;</span>
   <span id="f000300">but we ought to have some other topic as an introduction,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and that is what I wanted to consult you about.</span>
   <span id="f000302">The fact is,</span>
   <span id="f000303">we know so little of Osric Dane’s tastes and interests that it is difficult to make any special preparation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“It may be difficult,” said Mrs.&#160;Plinth with decision,</span>
   <span id="f000305">“but it is necessary.</span>
   <span id="f000306">I know what that happy-go-lucky principle leads to.</span>
   <span id="f000307">As I told one of my nieces the other day,</span>
   <span id="f000308">there are certain emergencies for which a lady should always be prepared.</span>
   <span id="f000309">It’s in shocking taste to wear colours when one pays a visit of condolence,</span>
   <span id="f000310">or a last year’s dress when there are reports that one’s husband is on the wrong side of the market;</span>
   <span id="f000311">and so it is with conversation.</span>
   <span id="f000312">All I ask is that I should know beforehand what is to be talked about;</span>
   <span id="f000313">then I feel sure of being able to say the proper thing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">“I quite agree with you,” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger assented;</span>
   <span id="f000315">“but – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000316">And at that instant,</span>
   <span id="f000317">heralded by the fluttered parlourmaid,</span>
   <span id="f000318">Osric Dane appeared upon the threshold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">Mrs.&#160;Leveret told her sister afterward that she had known at a glance what was coming.</span>
   <span id="f000320">She saw that Osric Dane was not going to meet them half way.</span>
   <span id="f000321">That distinguished personage had indeed entered with an air of compulsion not calculated to promote the easy exercise of hospitality.</span>
   <span id="f000322">She looked as though she were about to be photographed for a new edition of her books.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">The desire to propitiate a divinity is generally in inverse ratio to its responsiveness,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and the sense of discouragement produced by Osric Dane’s entrance visibly increased the Lunch Club’s eagerness to please her.</span>
   <span id="f000325">Any lingering idea that she might consider herself under an obligation to her entertainers was at once dispelled by her manner:</span>
   <span id="f000326">as Mrs.&#160;Leveret said afterward to her sister,</span>
   <span id="f000327">she had a way of looking at you that made you feel as if there was something wrong with your hat.</span>
   <span id="f000328">This evidence of greatness produced such an immediate impression on the ladies that a shudder of awe ran through them when Mrs.&#160;Roby,</span>
   <span id="f000329">as their hostess led the great personage into the dining-room,</span>
   <span id="f000330">turned back to whisper to the others:</span>
   <span id="f000331">“What a brute she is!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000332">The hour about the table did not tend to revise this verdict.</span>
   <span id="f000333">It was passed by Osric Dane in the silent deglutition of Mrs.&#160;Bollinger’s menu,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and by the members of the club in the emission of tentative platitudes which their guest seemed to swallow as perfunctorily as the successive courses of the luncheon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s reluctance to fix a topic had thrown the club into a mental disarray which increased with the return to the drawing-room,</span>
   <span id="f000336">where the actual business of discussion was to open.</span>
   <span id="f000337">Each lady waited for the other to speak;</span>
   <span id="f000338">and there was a general shock of disappointment when their hostess opened the conversation by the painfully commonplace enquiry.</span>
   <span id="f000339">“Is this your first visit to Hillbridge?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">Even Mrs.&#160;Leveret was conscious that this was a bad beginning;</span>
   <span id="f000341">and a vague impulse of deprecation made Miss Glyde interject:</span>
   <span id="f000342">“It is a very small place indeed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">Mrs.&#160;Plinth bristled.</span>
   <span id="f000344">“We have a great many representative people,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000345">in the tone of one who speaks for her order.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">Osric Dane turned to her.</span>
   <span id="f000347">“What do they represent?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">Mrs.&#160;Plinth’s constitutional dislike to being questioned was intensified by her sense of unpreparedness;</span>
   <span id="f000349">and her reproachful glance passed the question on to Mrs.&#160;Ballinger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“Why,” said that lady,</span>
   <span id="f000351">glancing in turn at the other members,</span>
   <span id="f000352">“as a community I hope it is not too much to say that we stand for culture.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">“For art – ” Miss Glyde interjected.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">“For art and literature,” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger emended.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“And for sociology,</span>
   <span id="f000356">I trust,” snapped Miss Van Vluyck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">“We have a standard,” said Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000358">feeling herself suddenly secure on the vast expanse of a generalisation;</span>
   <span id="f000359">and Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000360">thinking there must be room for more than one on so broad a statement,</span>
   <span id="f000361">took courage to murmur:</span>
   <span id="f000362">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000363">certainly;</span>
   <span id="f000364">we have a standard.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000365">“The object of our little club,” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger continued,</span>
   <span id="f000366">“is to concentrate the highest tendencies of Hillbridge – to centralise and focus its intellectual effort.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">This was felt to be so happy that the ladies drew an almost audible breath of relief.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">“We aspire,” the President went on,</span>
   <span id="f000369">“to be in touch with whatever is highest in art,</span>
   <span id="f000370">literature and ethics.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">Osric Dane again turned to her.</span>
   <span id="f000372">“What ethics?” she asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">A tremor of apprehension encircled the room.</span>
   <span id="f000374">None of the ladies required any preparation to pronounce on a question of morals;</span>
   <span id="f000375">but when they were called ethics it was different.</span>
   <span id="f000376">The club,</span>
   <span id="f000377">when fresh from the “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” the “Reader’s Handbook” or Smith’s “Classical Dictionary,” could deal confidently with any subject;</span>
   <span id="f000378">but when taken unawares it had been known to define agnosticism as a heresy of the Early Church and Professor Froude as a distinguished histologist;</span>
   <span id="f000379">and such minor members as Mrs.&#160;Leveret still secretly regarded ethics as something vaguely pagan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000380">Even to Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000381">Osric Dane’s question was unsettling,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and there was a general sense of gratitude when Laura Glyde leaned forward to say,</span>
   <span id="f000383">with her most sympathetic accent:</span>
   <span id="f000384">“You must excuse us,</span>
   <span id="f000385">Mrs.&#160;Dane,</span>
   <span id="f000386">for not being able,</span>
   <span id="f000387">just at present,</span>
   <span id="f000388">to talk of anything but ’The Wings of Death.”’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000389">“Yes,” said Miss Van Vluyck,</span>
   <span id="f000390">with a sudden resolve to carry the war into the enemy’s camp.</span>
   <span id="f000391">“We are so anxious to know the exact purpose you had in mind in writing your wonderful book.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000392">“You will find,” Mrs.&#160;Plinth interposed,</span>
   <span id="f000393">“that we are not superficial readers.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“We are eager to hear from you,” Miss Van Vluyck continued,</span>
   <span id="f000395">“if the pessimistic tendency of the book is an expression of your own convictions or – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“Or merely,” Miss Glyde thrust in,</span>
   <span id="f000397">“a sombre background brushed in to throw your figures into more vivid relief.</span>
   <span id="f000398"><em>Are</em> you not primarily plastic?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“I have always maintained,” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger interposed,</span>
   <span id="f000400">“that you represent the purely objective method – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">Osric Dane helped herself critically to coffee.</span>
   <span id="f000402">“How do you define objective?” she then enquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">There was a flurried pause before Laura Glyde intensely murmured:</span>
   <span id="f000404">“In reading <em>you</em> we don’t define,</span>
   <span id="f000405">we feel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000406">Otsric Dane smiled.</span>
   <span id="f000407">“The cerebellum,” she remarked,</span>
   <span id="f000408">“is not infrequently the seat of the literary emotions.” And she took a second lump of sugar.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">The sting that this remark was vaguely felt to conceal was almost neutralised by the satisfaction of being addressed in such technical language.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000410">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000411">the cerebellum,” said Miss Van Vluyck complacently.</span>
   <span id="f000412">“The club took a course in psychology last winter.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000413">“Which psychology?” asked Osric Dane.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">There was an agonising pause,</span>
   <span id="f000415">during which each member of the club secretly deplored the distressing inefficiency of the others.</span>
   <span id="f000416">Only Mrs.&#160;Roby went on placidly sipping her chartreuse.</span>
   <span id="f000417">At last Mrs.&#160;Ballinger said,</span>
   <span id="f000418">with an attempt at a high tone:</span>
   <span id="f000419">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000420">really,</span>
   <span id="f000421">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000422">it was last year that we took psychology,</span>
   <span id="f000423">and this winter we have been so absorbed in – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">She broke off,</span>
   <span id="f000425">nervously trying to recall some of the club’s discussions;</span>
   <span id="f000426">but her faculties seemed to be paralysed by the petrifying stare of Osric Dane.</span>
   <span id="f000427">What <em>had</em> the club been absorbed in?</span>
   <span id="f000428">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000429">with a vague purpose of gaining time,</span>
   <span id="f000430">repeated slowly:</span>
   <span id="f000431">“We’ve been so intensely absorbed in – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000432">Mrs.&#160;Roby put down her liqueur glass and drew near the group with a smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000433">“In Xingu?” she gently prompted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000434">A thrill ran through the other members.</span>
   <span id="f000435">They exchanged confused glances,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000437">with one accord,</span>
   <span id="f000438">turned a gaze of mingled relief and interrogation on their rescuer.</span>
   <span id="f000439">The expression of each denoted a different phase of the same emotion.</span>
   <span id="f000440">Mrs.&#160;Plinth was the first to compose her features to an air of reassurance:</span>
   <span id="f000441">after a moment’s hasty adjustment her look almost implied that it was she who had given the word to Mrs.&#160;Ballinger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000442">“Xingu,</span>
   <span id="f000443">of course!” exclaimed the latter with her accustomed promptness,</span>
   <span id="f000444">while Miss Van Vluyck and Laura Glyde seemed to be plumbing the depths of memory,</span>
   <span id="f000445">and Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000446">feeling apprehensively for Appropriate Allusions,</span>
   <span id="f000447">was somehow reassured by the uncomfortable pressure of its bulk against her person.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000448">Osric Dane’s change of countenance was no less striking than that of her entertainers.</span>
   <span id="f000449">She too put down her coffee-cup,</span>
   <span id="f000450">but with a look of distinct annoyance;</span>
   <span id="f000451">she too wore,</span>
   <span id="f000452">for a brief moment,</span>
   <span id="f000453">what Mrs.&#160;Roby afterward described as the look of feeling for something in the back of her head;</span>
   <span id="f000454">and before she could dissemble these momentary signs of weakness,</span>
   <span id="f000455">Mrs.&#160;Roby,</span>
   <span id="f000456">turning to her with a deferential smile,</span>
   <span id="f000457">had said:</span>
   <span id="f000458">“And we’ve been so hoping that to-day you would tell us just what you think of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">Osric Dane received the homage of the smile as a matter of course;</span>
   <span id="f000460">but the accompanying question obviously embarrassed her,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and it became clear to her observers that she was not quick at shifting her facial scenery.</span>
   <span id="f000462">It was as though her countenance had so long been set in an expression of unchallenged superiority that the muscles had stiffened,</span>
   <span id="f000463">and refused to obey her orders.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">“Xingu – ” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000465">as if seeking in her turn to gain time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">Mrs.&#160;Roby continued to press her.</span>
   <span id="f000467">“Knowing how engrossing the subject is,</span>
   <span id="f000468">you will understand how it happens that the club has let everything else go to the wall for the moment.</span>
   <span id="f000469">Since we took up Xingu I might almost say – were it not for your books – that nothing else seems to us worth remembering.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">Osric Dane’s stern features were darkened rather than lit up by an uneasy smile.</span>
   <span id="f000471">“I am glad to hear that you make one exception,” she gave out between narrowed lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000472">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000473">of course,” Mrs.&#160;Roby said prettily;</span>
   <span id="f000474">“but as you have shown us that – so very naturally!</span>
   <span id="f000475">– you don’t care to talk of your own things,</span>
   <span id="f000476">we really can’t let you off from telling us exactly what you think about Xingu;</span>
   <span id="f000477">especially,” she added,</span>
   <span id="f000478">with a still more persuasive smile,</span>
   <span id="f000479">“as some people say that one of your last books was saturated with it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000480">It was an <em>it</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000481">then – the assurance sped like fire through the parched minds of the other members.</span>
   <span id="f000482">In their eagerness to gain the least little clue to Xingu they almost forgot the joy of assisting at the discomfiture of Mrs.&#160;Dane.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">The latter reddened nervously under her antagonist’s challenge.</span>
   <span id="f000484">“May I ask,” she faltered out,</span>
   <span id="f000485">“to which of my books you refer?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000486">Mrs.&#160;Roby did not falter.</span>
   <span id="f000487">“That’s just what I want you to tell us;</span>
   <span id="f000488">because,</span>
   <span id="f000489">though I was present,</span>
   <span id="f000490">I didn’t actually take part.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000491">“Present at what?” Mrs.&#160;Dane took her up;</span>
   <span id="f000492">and for an instant the trembling members of the Lunch Club thought that the champion Providence had raised up for them had lost a point.</span>
   <span id="f000493">But Mrs.&#160;Roby explained herself gaily:</span>
   <span id="f000494">“At the discussion,</span>
   <span id="f000495">of course.</span>
   <span id="f000496">And so we’re dreadfully anxious to know just how it was that you went into the Xingu.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">There was a portentous pause,</span>
   <span id="f000498">a silence so big with incalculable dangers that the members with one accord checked the words on their lips,</span>
   <span id="f000499">like soldiers dropping their arms to watch a single combat between their leaders.</span>
   <span id="f000500">Then Mrs.&#160;Dane gave expression to their inmost dread by saying sharply:</span>
   <span id="f000501">“Ah – you say <em>the</em> Xingu,</span>
   <span id="f000502">do you?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000503">Mrs.&#160;Roby smiled undauntedly.</span>
   <span id="f000504">“It is a shade pedantic,</span>
   <span id="f000505">isn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000506">Personally,</span>
   <span id="f000507">I always drop the article;</span>
   <span id="f000508">but I don’t know how the other members feel about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000509">The other members looked as though they would willingly have dispensed with this appeal to their opinion,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and Mrs.&#160;Roby,</span>
   <span id="f000511">after a bright glance about the group,</span>
   <span id="f000512">went on:</span>
   <span id="f000513">“They probably think,</span>
   <span id="f000514">as I do,</span>
   <span id="f000515">that nothing really matters except the thing itself – except Xingu.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000516">No immediate reply seemed to occur to Mrs.&#160;Dane,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and Mrs.&#160;Ballinger gathered courage to say:</span>
   <span id="f000518">“Surely every one must feel that about Xingu.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000519">Mrs.&#160;Plinth came to her support with a heavy murmur of assent,</span>
   <span id="f000520">and Laura Glyde sighed out emotionally:</span>
   <span id="f000521">“I have known cases where it has changed a whole life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">“It has done me worlds of good,” Mrs.&#160;Leveret interjected,</span>
   <span id="f000523">seeming to herself to remember that she had either taken it or read it the winter before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“Of course,” Mrs.&#160;Roby admitted,</span>
   <span id="f000525">“the difficulty is that one must give up so much time to it.</span>
   <span id="f000526">It’s very long.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000527">“I can’t imagine,” said Miss Van Vluyck,</span>
   <span id="f000528">“grudging the time given to such a subject.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">“And deep in places,” Mrs.&#160;Roby pursued;</span>
   <span id="f000530">(so then it was a book!)</span>
   <span id="f000531">“And it isn’t easy to skip.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“I never skip,” said Mrs.&#160;Plinth dogmatically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000533">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000534">it’s dangerous to,</span>
   <span id="f000535">in Xingu.</span>
   <span id="f000536">Even at the start there are places where one can’t.</span>
   <span id="f000537">One must just wade through.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000538">“I should hardly call it <em>wading</em>,” said Mrs.&#160;Ballinger sarcastically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000539">Mrs.&#160;Roby sent her a look of interest.</span>
   <span id="f000540">“Ah – you always found it went swimmingly?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000541">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger hesitated.</span>
   <span id="f000542">“Of course there are difficult passages,” she conceded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000543">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000544">some are not at all clear – even,” Mrs.&#160;Roby added,</span>
   <span id="f000545">“if one is familiar with the original.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000546">“As I suppose you are?” Osric Dane interposed,</span>
   <span id="f000547">suddenly fixing her with a look of challenge.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000548">Mrs.&#160;Roby met it by a deprecating gesture.</span>
   <span id="f000549">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000550">it’s really not difficult up to a certain point;</span>
   <span id="f000551">though some of the branches are very little known,</span>
   <span id="f000552">and it’s almost impossible to get at the source.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000553">“Have you ever tried?” Mrs.&#160;Plinth enquired,</span>
   <span id="f000554">still distrustful of Mrs.&#160;Roby’s thoroughness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000555">Mrs.&#160;Roby was silent for a moment;</span>
   <span id="f000556">then she replied with lowered lids:</span>
   <span id="f000557">“No – but a friend of mine did;</span>
   <span id="f000558">a very brilliant man;</span>
   <span id="f000559">and he told me it was best for women – not to…</span>
   <span id="f000560">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000561">A shudder ran around the room.</span>
   <span id="f000562">Mrs.&#160;Leveret coughed so that the parlour-maid,</span>
   <span id="f000563">who was handing the cigarettes,</span>
   <span id="f000564">should not hear;</span>
   <span id="f000565">Miss Van Vluyck’s face took on a nauseated expression,</span>
   <span id="f000566">and Mrs.&#160;Plinth looked as if she were passing some one she did not care to bow to.</span>
   <span id="f000567">But the most remarkable result of Mrs.&#160;Roby’s words was the effect they produced on the Lunch Club’s distinguished guest.</span>
   <span id="f000568">Osric Dane’s impassive features suddenly softened to an expression of the warmest human sympathy,</span>
   <span id="f000569">and edging her chair toward Mrs.&#160;Roby’s she asked:</span>
   <span id="f000570">“Did he really?</span>
   <span id="f000571">And – did you find he was right?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000572">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000573">in whom annoyance at Mrs.&#160;Roby’s unwonted assumption of prominence was beginning to displace gratitude for the aid she had rendered,</span>
   <span id="f000574">could not consent to her being allowed,</span>
   <span id="f000575">by such dubious means,</span>
   <span id="f000576">to monopolise the attention of their guest.</span>
   <span id="f000577">If Osric Dane had not enough self-respect to resent Mrs.&#160;Roby’s flippancy,</span>
   <span id="f000578">at least the Lunch Club would do so in the person of its President.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000579">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger laid her hand on Mrs.&#160;Roby’s arm.</span>
   <span id="f000580">“We must not forget,” she said with a frigid amiability,</span>
   <span id="f000581">“that absorbing as Xingu is to <em>us</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000582">it may be less interesting to – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000583">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000584">no,</span>
   <span id="f000585">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000586">I assure you,” Osric Dane intervened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000587">“ – to others,” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger finished firmly;</span>
   <span id="f000588">“and we must not allow our little meeting to end without persuading Mrs.&#160;Dane to say a few words to us on a subject which,</span>
   <span id="f000589">to-day,</span>
   <span id="f000590">is much more present in all our thoughts.</span>
   <span id="f000591">I refer,</span>
   <span id="f000592">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000593">to ’The Wings of Death.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000594">The other members,</span>
   <span id="f000595">animated by various degrees of the same sentiment,</span>
   <span id="f000596">and encouraged by the humanised mien of their redoubtable guest,</span>
   <span id="f000597">repeated after Mrs.&#160;Ballinger:</span>
   <span id="f000598">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000599">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000600">you really <em>must</em> talk to us a little about your book.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000601">Osric Dane’s expression became as bored,</span>
   <span id="f000602">though not as haughty,</span>
   <span id="f000603">as when her work had been previously mentioned.</span>
   <span id="f000604">But before she could respond to Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s request,</span>
   <span id="f000605">Mrs.&#160;Roby had risen from her seat,</span>
   <span id="f000606">and was pulling down her veil over her frivolous nose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000607">“I’m so sorry,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000608">advancing toward her hostess with outstretched hand,</span>
   <span id="f000609">“but before Mrs.&#160;Dane begins I think I’d better run away.</span>
   <span id="f000610">Unluckily,</span>
   <span id="f000611">as you know,</span>
   <span id="f000612">I haven’t read her books,</span>
   <span id="f000613">so I should be at a terrible disadvantage among you all,</span>
   <span id="f000614">and besides,</span>
   <span id="f000615">I’ve an engagement to play bridge.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000616">If Mrs.&#160;Roby had simply pleaded her ignorance of Osric Dane’s works as a reason for withdrawing,</span>
   <span id="f000617">the Lunch Club,</span>
   <span id="f000618">in view of her recent prowess,</span>
   <span id="f000619">might have approved such evidence of discretion;</span>
   <span id="f000620">but to couple this excuse with the brazen announcement that she was foregoing the privilege for the purpose of joining a bridge-party was only one more instance of her deplorable lack of discrimination.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">The ladies were disposed,</span>
   <span id="f000622">however,</span>
   <span id="f000623">to feel that her departure – now that she had performed the sole service she was ever likely to render them – would probably make for greater order and dignity in the impending discussion,</span>
   <span id="f000624">besides relieving them of the sense of self-distrust which her presence always mysteriously produced.</span>
   <span id="f000625">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger therefore restricted herself to a formal murmur of regret,</span>
   <span id="f000626">and the other members were just grouping themselves comfortably about Osric Dane when the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000627">to their dismay,</span>
   <span id="f000628">started up from the sofa on which she had been seated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">“Oh wait – do wait,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and I’ll go with you!” she called out to Mrs.&#160;Roby;</span>
   <span id="f000631">and,</span>
   <span id="f000632">seizing the hands of the disconcerted members,</span>
   <span id="f000633">she administered a series of farewell pressures with the mechanical haste of a railway-conductor punching tickets.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">“I’m so sorry – I’d quite forgotten – ” she flung back at them from the threshold;</span>
   <span id="f000635">and as she joined Mrs.&#160;Roby,</span>
   <span id="f000636">who had turned in surprise at her appeal,</span>
   <span id="f000637">the other ladies had the mortification of hearing her say,</span>
   <span id="f000638">in a voice which she did not take the pains to lower:</span>
   <span id="f000639">“If you’ll let me walk a little way with you,</span>
   <span id="f000640">I should so like to ask you a few more questions about Xingu…</span>
   <span id="f000641">”</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000642">III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000643">The incident had been so rapid that the door closed on the departing pair before the other members had time to understand what was happening.</span>
   <span id="f000644">Then a sense of the indignity put upon them by Osric Dane’s unceremonious desertion began to contend with the confused feeling that they had been cheated out of their due without exactly knowing how or why.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000645">There was a silence,</span>
   <span id="f000646">during which Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000647">with a perfunctory hand,</span>
   <span id="f000648">rearranged the skilfully grouped literature at which her distinguished guest had not so much as glanced;</span>
   <span id="f000649">then Miss Van Vluyck tartly pronounced:</span>
   <span id="f000650">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000651">I can’t say that I consider Osric Dane’s departure a great loss.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000652">This confession crystallised the resentment of the other members,</span>
   <span id="f000653">and Mrs.&#160;Leveret exclaimed:</span>
   <span id="f000654">“I do believe she came on purpose to be nasty!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000655">It was Mrs.&#160;Plinth’s private opinion that Osric Dane’s attitude toward the Lunch Club might have been very different had it welcomed her in the majestic setting of the Plinth drawing-rooms;</span>
   <span id="f000656">but not liking to reflect on the inadequacy of Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s establishment she sought a roundabout satisfaction in depreciating her lack of foresight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000657">“I said from the first that we ought to have had a subject ready.</span>
   <span id="f000658">It’s what always happens when you’re unprepared.</span>
   <span id="f000659">Now if we’d only got up Xingu – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000660">The slowness of Mrs.&#160;Plinth’s mental processes was always allowed for by the club;</span>
   <span id="f000661">but this instance of it was too much for Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s equanimity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000662">“Xingu!” she scoffed.</span>
   <span id="f000663">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000664">it was the fact of our knowing so much more about it than she did – unprepared though we were – that made Osric Dane so furious.</span>
   <span id="f000665">I should have thought that was plain enough to everybody!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000666">This retort impressed even Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000667">and Laura Glyde,</span>
   <span id="f000668">moved by an impulse of generosity,</span>
   <span id="f000669">said:</span>
   <span id="f000670">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000671">we really ought to be grateful to Mrs.&#160;Roby for introducing the topic.</span>
   <span id="f000672">It may have made Osric Dane furious,</span>
   <span id="f000673">but at least it made her civil.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000674">“I am glad we were able to show her,” added Miss Van Vluyck,</span>
   <span id="f000675">“that a broad and up-to-date culture is not confined to the great intellectual centres.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">This increased the satisfaction of the other members,</span>
   <span id="f000677">and they began to forget their wrath against Osric Dane in the pleasure of having contributed to her discomfiture.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">Miss Van Vluyck thoughtfully rubbed her spectacles.</span>
   <span id="f000679">“What surprised me most,” she continued,</span>
   <span id="f000680">“was that Fanny Roby should be so up on Xingu.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000681">This remark threw a slight chill on the company,</span>
   <span id="f000682">but Mrs.&#160;Ballinger said with an air of indulgent irony:</span>
   <span id="f000683">“Mrs.&#160;Roby always has the knack of making a little go a long way;</span>
   <span id="f000684">still,</span>
   <span id="f000685">we certainly owe her a debt for happening to remember that she’d heard of Xingu.” And this was felt by the other members to be a graceful way of cancelling once for all the club’s obligation to Mrs.&#160;Roby.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000686">Even Mrs.&#160;Leveret took courage to speed a timid shaft of irony.</span>
   <span id="f000687">“I fancy Osric Dane hardly expected to take a lesson in Xingu at Hillbridge!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000688">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger smiled.</span>
   <span id="f000689">“When she asked me what we represented – do you remember?</span>
   <span id="f000690">– I wish I’d simply said we represented Xingu!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000691">All the ladies laughed appreciatively at this sally,</span>
   <span id="f000692">except Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000693">who said,</span>
   <span id="f000694">after a moment’s deliberation:</span>
   <span id="f000695">“I’m not sure it would have been wise to do so.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000696">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000697">who was already beginning to feel as if she had launched at Osric Dane the retort which had just occurred to her,</span>
   <span id="f000698">turned ironically on Mrs.&#160;Plinth.</span>
   <span id="f000699">“May I ask why?” she enquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000700">Mrs.&#160;Plinth looked grave.</span>
   <span id="f000701">“Surely,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000702">“I understood from Mrs.&#160;Roby herself that the subject was one it was as well not to go into too deeply?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">Miss Van Vluyck rejoined with precision:</span>
   <span id="f000704">“I think that applied only to an investigation of the origin of the – of the – ”;</span>
   <span id="f000705">and suddenly she found that her usually accurate memory had failed her.</span>
   <span id="f000706">“It’s a part of the subject I never studied myself/,” she concluded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000707">“Nor I,” said Mrs.&#160;Ballinger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000708">Laura Glyde bent toward them with widened eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000709">“And yet it seems – doesn’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000710">– the part that is fullest of an esoteric fascination?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000711">“I don’t know on what you base that,” said Miss Van Vluyck argumentatively.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000712">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000713">didn’t you notice how intensely interested Osric Dane became as soon as she heard what the brilliant foreigner – he <em>was</em> a foreigner,</span>
   <span id="f000714">wasn’t he?</span>
   <span id="f000715">– had told Mrs.&#160;Roby about the origin – the origin of the rite – or whatever you call it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000716">Mrs.&#160;Plinth looked disapproving,</span>
   <span id="f000717">and Mrs.&#160;Ballinger visibly wavered.</span>
   <span id="f000718">Then she said:</span>
   <span id="f000719">“It may not be desirable to touch on the – on that part of the subject in general conversation;</span>
   <span id="f000720">but,</span>
   <span id="f000721">from the importance it evidently has to a woman of Osric Dane’s distinction,</span>
   <span id="f000722">I feel as if we ought not to be afraid to discuss it among ourselves – without gloves – though with closed doors,</span>
   <span id="f000723">if necessary.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000724">“I’m quite of your opinion,” Miss Van Vluyck came briskly to her support;</span>
   <span id="f000725">“on condition,</span>
   <span id="f000726">that is,</span>
   <span id="f000727">that all grossness of language is avoided.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000728">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000729">I’m sure we shall understand without that,” Mrs.&#160;Leveret tittered;</span>
   <span id="f000730">and Laura Glyde added significantly:</span>
   <span id="f000731">“I fancy we can read between the lines,” while Mrs.&#160;Ballinger rose to assure herself that the doors were really closed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000732">Mrs.&#160;Plinth had not yet given her adhesion.</span>
   <span id="f000733">“I hardly see,” she began,</span>
   <span id="f000734">“what benefit is to be derived from investigating such peculiar customs – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000735">But Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s patience had reached the extreme limit of tension.</span>
   <span id="f000736">“This at least,” she returned;</span>
   <span id="f000737">“that we shall not be placed again in the humiliating position of finding ourselves less up on our own subjects than Fanny Roby!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000738">Even to Mrs.&#160;Plinth this argument was conclusive.</span>
   <span id="f000739">She peered furtively about the room and lowered her commanding tones to ask:</span>
   <span id="f000740">“Have you got a copy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000741">“A – a copy?” stammered Mrs.&#160;Ballinger.</span>
   <span id="f000742">She was aware that the other members were looking at her expectantly,</span>
   <span id="f000743">and that this answer was inadequate,</span>
   <span id="f000744">so she supported it by asking another question.</span>
   <span id="f000745">“A copy of what?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000746">Her companions bent their expectant gaze on Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000747">who,</span>
   <span id="f000748">in turn,</span>
   <span id="f000749">appeared less sure of herself than usual.</span>
   <span id="f000750">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000751">of – of – the book,” she explained.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000752">“What book?” snapped Miss Van Vluyck,</span>
   <span id="f000753">almost as sharply as Osric Dane.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000754">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger looked at Laura Glyde,</span>
   <span id="f000755">whose eyes were interrogatively fixed on Mrs.&#160;Leveret.</span>
   <span id="f000756">The fact of being deferred to was so new to the latter that it filled her with an insane temerity.</span>
   <span id="f000757">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000758">Xingu,</span>
   <span id="f000759">of course!” she exclaimed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000760">A profound silence followed this challenge to the resources of Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s library,</span>
   <span id="f000761">and the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000762">after glancing nervously toward the Books of the Day,</span>
   <span id="f000763">returned with dignity:</span>
   <span id="f000764">“It’s not a thing one cares to leave about.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000765">“I should think not!” exclaimed Mrs.&#160;Plinth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000766">“It <em>is</em> a book,</span>
   <span id="f000767">then?” said Miss Van Vluyck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000768">This again threw the company into disarray,</span>
   <span id="f000769">and Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000770">with an impatient sigh,</span>
   <span id="f000771">rejoined:</span>
   <span id="f000772">“Why – there <em>is</em> a book – naturally…</span>
   <span id="f000773">”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000774">“Then why did Miss Glyde call it a religion?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000775">Laura Glyde started up.</span>
   <span id="f000776">“A religion?</span>
   <span id="f000777">I never – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000778">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000779">you did,” Miss Van Vluyck insisted;</span>
   <span id="f000780">“you spoke of rites;</span>
   <span id="f000781">and Mrs.&#160;Plinth said it was a custom.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000782">Miss Glyde was evidently making a desperate effort to recall her statement;</span>
   <span id="f000783">but accuracy of detail was not her strongest point.</span>
   <span id="f000784">At length she began in a deep murmur:</span>
   <span id="f000785">“Surely they used to do something of the kind at the Eleusinian mysteries – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000786">“Oh – ” said Miss Van Vluyck,</span>
   <span id="f000787">on the verge of disapproval;</span>
   <span id="f000788">and Mrs.&#160;Plinth protested:</span>
   <span id="f000789">“I understood there was to be no indelicacy!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000790">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger could not control her irritation.</span>
   <span id="f000791">“Really,</span>
   <span id="f000792">it is too bad that we should not be able to talk the matter over quietly among ourselves.</span>
   <span id="f000793">Personally,</span>
   <span id="f000794">I think that if one goes into Xingu at all – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000795">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000796">so do I!” cried Miss Glyde.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000797">“And I don’t see how one can avoid doing so,</span>
   <span id="f000798">if one wishes to keep up with the Thought of the Day – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000799">Mrs.&#160;Leveret uttered an exclamation of relief.</span>
   <span id="f000800">“There – that’s it!” she interposed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000801">“What’s it?” the President took her up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000802">“Why – it’s a – a Thought:</span>
   <span id="f000803">I mean a philosophy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000804">This seemed to bring a certain relief to Mrs.&#160;Ballinger and Laura Glyde,</span>
   <span id="f000805">but Miss Van Vluyck said:</span>
   <span id="f000806">“Excuse me if I tell you that you’re all mistaken.</span>
   <span id="f000807">Xingu happens to be a language.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000808">“A language!” the Lunch Club cried.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000809">“Certainly.</span>
   <span id="f000810">Don’t you remember Fanny Roby’s saying that there were several branches,</span>
   <span id="f000811">and that some were hard to trace?</span>
   <span id="f000812">What could that apply to but dialects?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000813">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger could no longer restrain a contemptuous laugh.</span>
   <span id="f000814">“Really,</span>
   <span id="f000815">if the Lunch Club has reached such a pass that it has to go to Fanny Roby for instruction on a subject like Xingu,</span>
   <span id="f000816">it had almost better cease to exist!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000817">“It’s really her fault for not being clearer,” Laura Glyde put in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000818">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000819">clearness and Fanny Roby!” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger shrugged.</span>
   <span id="f000820">“I daresay we shall find she was mistaken on almost every point.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000821">“Why not look it up?” said Mrs.&#160;Plinth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000822">As a rule this recurrent suggestion of Mrs.&#160;Plinth’s was ignored in the heat of discussion,</span>
   <span id="f000823">and only resorted to afterward in the privacy of each member’s home.</span>
   <span id="f000824">But on the present occasion the desire to ascribe their own confusion of thought to the vague and contradictory nature of Mrs.&#160;Roby’s statements caused the members of the Lunch Club to utter a collective demand for a book of reference.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000825">At this point the production of her treasured volume gave Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000826">for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000827">the unusual experience of occupying the centre front;</span>
   <span id="f000828">but she was not able to hold it long,</span>
   <span id="f000829">for Appropriate Allusions contained no mention of Xingu.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000830">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000831">that’s not the kind of thing we want!” exclaimed Miss Van Vluyck.</span>
   <span id="f000832">She cast a disparaging glance over Mrs.&#160;Ballinger’s assortment of literature,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and added impatiently:</span>
   <span id="f000834">“Haven’t you any useful books?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000835">“Of course I have,” replied Mrs.&#160;Ballinger indignantly;</span>
   <span id="f000836">“I keep them in my husband’s dressing-room.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000837">From this region,</span>
   <span id="f000838">after some difficulty and delay,</span>
   <span id="f000839">the parlour-maid produced the W-Z volume of an Encyclopaedia and,</span>
   <span id="f000840">in deference to the fact that the demand for it had come from Miss Van Vluyck,</span>
   <span id="f000841">laid the ponderous tome before her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000842">There was a moment of painful suspense while Miss Van Vluyck rubbed her spectacles,</span>
   <span id="f000843">adjusted them,</span>
   <span id="f000844">and turned to Z;</span>
   <span id="f000845">and a murmur of surprise when she said:</span>
   <span id="f000846">“It isn’t here.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000847">“I suppose,” said Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000848">“it’s not fit to be put in a book of reference.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000849">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000850">nonsense!” exclaimed Mrs.&#160;Ballinger.</span>
   <span id="f000851">“Try X.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">Miss Van Vluyck turned back through the volume,</span>
   <span id="f000853">peering short-sightedly up and down the pages,</span>
   <span id="f000854">till she came to a stop and remained motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000855">like a dog on a point.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000856">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000857">have you found it?” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger enquired after a considerable delay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000858">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000859">I’ve found it,” said Miss Van Vluyck in a queer voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000860">Mrs.&#160;Plinth hastily interposed:</span>
   <span id="f000861">“I beg you won’t read it aloud if there’s anything offensive.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000862">Miss Van Vluyck,</span>
   <span id="f000863">without answering,</span>
   <span id="f000864">continued her silent scrutiny.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000865">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000866">what <em>is</em> it?” exclaimed Laura Glyde excitedly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000867">“<em>Do</em> tell us!” urged Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000868">feeling that she would have something awful to tell her sister.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000869">Miss Van Vluyck pushed the volume aside and turned slowly toward the expectant group.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000870">“It’s a river.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000871">“A <em>river?</em>”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">“Yes:</span>
   <span id="f000873">in Brazil.</span>
   <span id="f000874">Isn’t that where she’s been living?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000875">“Who?</span>
   <span id="f000876">Fanny Roby?</span>
   <span id="f000877">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000878">but you must be mistaken.</span>
   <span id="f000879">You’ve been reading the wrong thing,” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000880">leaning over her to seize the volume.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000881">“It’s the only Xingu in the Encyclopaedia;</span>
   <span id="f000882">and she <em>has</em> been living in Brazil,” Miss Van Vluyck persisted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000883">“Yes:</span>
   <span id="f000884">her brother has a consulship there,” Mrs.&#160;Leveret interposed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000885">“But it’s too ridiculous!</span>
   <span id="f000886">I – we – why we <em>all</em> remember studying Xingu last year – or the year before last,” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger stammered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000887">“I thought I did when <em>you</em> said so,” Laura Glyde avowed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000888">“I said so?” cried Mrs.&#160;Ballinger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000889">“Yes.</span>
   <span id="f000890">You said it had crowded everything else out of your mind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000891">“Well <em>you</em> said it had changed your whole life!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000892">“For that matter.</span>
   <span id="f000893">Miss Van Vluyck said she had never grudged the time she’d given it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000894">Mrs.&#160;Plinth interposed:</span>
   <span id="f000895">“I made it clear that I knew nothing whatever of the original.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000896">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger broke off the dispute with a groan.</span>
   <span id="f000897">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000898">what does it all matter if she’s been making fools of us?</span>
   <span id="f000899">I believe Miss Van Vluyck’s right – she was talking of the river all the while!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000900">“How could she?</span>
   <span id="f000901">It’s too preposterous,” Miss Glyde exclaimed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000902">“Listen.” Miss Van Vluyck had repossessed herself of the Encyclopaedia,</span>
   <span id="f000903">and restored her spectacles to a nose reddened by excitement.</span>
   <span id="f000904">“’The Xingu,</span>
   <span id="f000905">one of the principal rivers of Brazil,</span>
   <span id="f000906">rises on the plateau of Mato Grosso,</span>
   <span id="f000907">and flows in a northerly direction for a length of no less than one thousand one hundred and eighteen miles,</span>
   <span id="f000908">entering the Amazon near the mouth of the latter river.</span>
   <span id="f000909">The upper course of the Xingu is auriferous and fed by numerous branches.</span>
   <span id="f000910">Its source was first discovered in 1884 by the German explorer von den Steinen,</span>
   <span id="f000911">after a difficult and dangerous expedition through a region inhabited by tribes still in the Stone Age of culture.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000912">The ladies received this communication in a state of stupefied silence from which Mrs.&#160;Leveret was the first to rally.</span>
   <span id="f000913">“She certainly <em>did</em> speak of its having branches.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000914">The word seemed to snap the last thread of their incredulity.</span>
   <span id="f000915">“And of its great length,” gasped Mrs.&#160;Ballinger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000916">“She said it was awfully deep,</span>
   <span id="f000917">and you couldn’t skip – you just had to wade through,” Miss Glyde added.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000918">The idea worked its way more slowly through Mrs.&#160;Plinth’s compact resistances.</span>
   <span id="f000919">“How could there be anything improper about a river?” she enquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000920">“Improper?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000921">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000922">what she said about the source – that it was corrupt?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000923">“Not corrupt,</span>
   <span id="f000924">but hard to get at,” Laura Glyde corrected.</span>
   <span id="f000925">“Some one who’d been there had told her so.</span>
   <span id="f000926">I daresay it was the explorer himself – doesn’t it say the expedition was dangerous?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000927">“’Difficult and dangerous,’” read Miss Van Vluyck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000928">Mrs.&#160;Ballinger pressed her hands to her throbbing temples.</span>
   <span id="f000929">“There’s nothing she said that wouldn’t apply to a river – to this river!” She swung about excitedly to the other members.</span>
   <span id="f000930">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000931">do you remember her telling us that she hadn’t read ’The Supreme Instant’ because she’d taken it on a boating party while she was staying with her brother,</span>
   <span id="f000932">and some one had ’shied’ it overboard – ’shied’ of course was her own expression.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000933">The ladies breathlessly signified that the expression had not escaped them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000934">“Well – and then didn’t she tell Osric Dane that one of her books was simply saturated with Xingu?</span>
   <span id="f000935">Of course it was,</span>
   <span id="f000936">if one of Mrs.&#160;Roby’s rowdy friends had thrown it into the river!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000937">This surprising reconstruction of the scene in which they had just participated left the members of the Lunch Club inarticulate.</span>
   <span id="f000938">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000939">Mrs.&#160;Plinth,</span>
   <span id="f000940">after visibly labouring with the problem,</span>
   <span id="f000941">said in a heavy tone:</span>
   <span id="f000942">“Osric Dane was taken in too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000943">Mrs.&#160;Leveret took courage at this.</span>
   <span id="f000944">“Perhaps that’s what Mrs.&#160;Roby did it for.</span>
   <span id="f000945">She said Osric Dane was a brute,</span>
   <span id="f000946">and she may have wanted to give her a lesson.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000947">Miss Van Vluyck frowned.</span>
   <span id="f000948">“It was hardly worth while to do it at our expense.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000949">“At least,” said Miss Glyde with a touch of bitterness,</span>
   <span id="f000950">“she succeeded in interesting her,</span>
   <span id="f000951">which was more than we did.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000952">“What chance had we?” rejoined Mrs.&#160;Ballinger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000953">“Mrs.&#160;Roby monopolised her from the first.</span>
   <span id="f000954">And <em>that</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000955">I’ve no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000956">was her purpose – to give Osric Dane a false impression of her own standing in the club.</span>
   <span id="f000957">She would hesitate at nothing to attract attention:</span>
   <span id="f000958">we all know how she took in poor Professor Foreland.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000959">“She actually makes him give bridge-teas every Thursday,” Mrs.&#160;Leveret piped up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000960">Laura Glyde struck her hands together.</span>
   <span id="f000961">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000962">this is Thursday,</span>
   <span id="f000963">and it’s <em>there</em> she’s gone,</span>
   <span id="f000964">of course;</span>
   <span id="f000965">and taken Osric with her!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000966">“And they’re shrieking over us at this moment,” said Mrs.&#160;Ballinger between her teeth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000967">This possibility seemed too preposterous to be admitted.</span>
   <span id="f000968">“She would hardly dare,” said Miss Van Vluyck,</span>
   <span id="f000969">“confess the imposture to Osric Dane.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000970">“I’m not so sure:</span>
   <span id="f000971">I thought I saw her make a sign as she left.</span>
   <span id="f000972">If she hadn’t made a sign,</span>
   <span id="f000973">why should Osric Dane have rushed out after her?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000974">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000975">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000976">we’d all been telling her how wonderful Xingu was,</span>
   <span id="f000977">and she said she wanted to find out more about it,” Mrs.&#160;Leveret said,</span>
   <span id="f000978">with a tardy impulse of justice to the absent.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000979">This reminder,</span>
   <span id="f000980">far from mitigating the wrath of the other members,</span>
   <span id="f000981">gave it a stronger impetus.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000982">“Yes – and that’s exactly what they’re both laughing over now,” said Laura Glyde ironically.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000983">Mrs.&#160;Plinth stood up and gathered her expensive furs about her monumental form.</span>
   <span id="f000984">“I have no wish to criticise,” she said;</span>
   <span id="f000985">“but unless the Lunch Club can protect its members against the recurrence of such – such unbecoming scenes,</span>
   <span id="f000986">I for one – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000987">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000988">so do I!” agreed Miss Glyde,</span>
   <span id="f000989">rising also.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000990">Miss Van Vluyck closed the Encyclopaedia and proceeded to button herself into her jacket “My time is really too valuable – ” she began.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000991">“I fancy we are all of one mind,” said Mrs.&#160;Ballinger,</span>
   <span id="f000992">looking searchingly at Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f000993">who looked at the others.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000994">“I always deprecate anything like a scandal – ” Mrs.&#160;Plinth continued.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000995">“She has been the cause of one to-day!” exclaimed Miss Glyde.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000996">Mrs.&#160;Leveret moaned:</span>
   <span id="f000997">“I don’t see how she <em>could!</em>” and Miss Van Vluyck said,</span>
   <span id="f000998">picking up her note-book:</span>
   <span id="f000999">“Some women stop at nothing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001000">“ – but if,” Mrs.&#160;Plinth took up her argument impressively,</span>
   <span id="f001001">“anything of the kind had happened in <em>my</em> house”</span>
   <span id="f001002">(it never would have,</span>
   <span id="f001003">her tone implied),</span>
   <span id="f001004">“I should have felt that I owed it to myself either to ask for Mrs.&#160;Roby’s resignation – or to offer mine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001005">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f001006">Mrs.&#160;Plinth – ” gasped the Lunch Club.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001007">“Fortunately for me,” Mrs.&#160;Plinth continued with an awful magnanimity,</span>
   <span id="f001008">“the matter was taken out of my hands by our President’s decision that the right to entertain distinguished guests was a privilege vested in her office;</span>
   <span id="f001009">and I think the other members will agree that,</span>
   <span id="f001010">as she was alone in this opinion,</span>
   <span id="f001011">she ought to be alone in deciding on the best way of effacing its – its really deplorable consequences.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001012">A deep silence followed this outbreak of Mrs.&#160;Plinth’s long-stored resentment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">“I don’t see why I should be expected to ask her to resign – ” Mrs.&#160;Ballinger at length began;</span>
   <span id="f001014">but Laura Glyde turned back to remind her:</span>
   <span id="f001015">“You know she made you say that you’d got on swimmingly in Xingu.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001016">An ill-timed giggle escaped from Mrs.&#160;Leveret,</span>
   <span id="f001017">and Mrs.&#160;Ballinger energetically continued “ – but you needn’t think for a moment that I’m afraid to!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001018">The door of the drawing-room closed on the retreating backs of the Lunch Club,</span>
   <span id="f001019">and the President of that distinguished association,</span>
   <span id="f001020">seating herself at her writing-table,</span>
   <span id="f001021">and pushing away a copy of “The Wings of Death” to make room for her elbow,</span>
   <span id="f001022">drew forth a sheet of the club’s note-paper,</span>
   <span id="f001023">on which she began to write:</span>
   <span id="f001024">“My dear Mrs.&#160;Roby – ”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

