<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">The Camel’s Back</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">The glazed eye of the tired reader resting for a second on the above title will presume it to be merely metaphorical.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">Stories about the cup and the lip and the bad penny and the new broom rarely have anything</span> 
    <span id="f000004">to do with cups or lips or pennies or brooms.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">This story is the exception.</span> 
    <span id="f000006">It has to do with a material,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">visible and large-as-life camel’s back.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000008">Starting from the neck we shall work toward the tail.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">I want you to meet Mr.&#160;Perry Parkhurst,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">twenty-eight,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">lawyer,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">native of Toledo.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">Perry has nice teeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">a Harvard diploma,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">parts his hair in the middle.</span> 
    <span id="f000016">You have met him before —</span> 
    <span id="f000017">in Cleveland,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">Portland,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">St.&#160;Paul,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">Indianapolis,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">Kansas City,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">and so forth.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">Baker Brothers,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">New York,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">pause on their semi-annual trip through the West to clothe him;</span> 
    <span id="f000026">Montmorency&#160;&amp;&#160;Co.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">dispatch a young man post-haste every three months to see that he has the correct number of little punctures on his shoes.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">He has a domestic roadster now,</span> 
    <span id="f000029">will have a French roadster if he lives long enough,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">and doubtless a Chinese tank if it comes into fashion.</span> 
    <span id="f000031">He looks like the advertisement of the young man rubbing his sunset-colored chest with liniment and goes East every other year to his class reunion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">I want you to meet his Love.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">Her name is Betty Medill,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">and she would take well in the movies.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">Her father gives her three hundred a month to dress on,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">and she has tawny eyes and hair and feather fans of five colors.</span> 
    <span id="f000037">I shall also introduce her father,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">Cyrus Medill.</span> 
    <span id="f000039">Though he is to all appearances flesh and blood,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">he is,</span> 
    <span id="f000041">strange to say,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">commonly known in Toledo as the Aluminum Man.</span> 
    <span id="f000043">But when he sits in his club window with two or three Iron Men,</span> 
    <span id="f000044">and the White Pine Man,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">and the Brass Man,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">they look very much as you and I do,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">only more so,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">if you know what I mean.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">Now during the Christmas holidays of 1919 there took place in Toledo,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">counting only the people with the italicized <em>the</em>,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">forty-one dinner parties,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">sixteen dances,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">six luncheons,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">male and female,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">twelve teas,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">four stag dinners,</span> 
    <span id="f000057">two weddings,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">and thirteen bridge parties.</span> 
    <span id="f000059">It was the cumulative effect of all this that moved Perry Parkhurst on the twenty-ninth day of December to a decision.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000060">This Medill girl would marry him and she wouldn’t marry him.</span> 
    <span id="f000061">She was having such a good time that she hated to take such a definite step.</span> 
    <span id="f000062">Meanwhile,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">their secret engagement had got so long that it seemed as if any day it might break off of its own weight.</span> 
    <span id="f000064">A little man named Warburton,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">who knew it all,</span> 
    <span id="f000066">persuaded Perry to superman her,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">to get a marriage license and go up to the Medill house and tell her she’d have to marry him at once or call it off forever.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">So he presented himself,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">his heart,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">his license,</span> 
    <span id="f000071">and his ultimatum,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">and within five minutes they were in the midst of a violent quarrel,</span> 
    <span id="f000073">a burst of sporadic open fighting such as occurs near the end of all long wars and engagements.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">It brought about one of those ghastly lapses in which two people who are in love pull up sharp,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">look at each other coolly and think it’s all been a mistake.</span> 
    <span id="f000076">Afterward they usually kiss wholesomely and assure the other person it was all their fault.</span> 
    <span id="f000077">Say it all was my fault!</span> 
    <span id="f000078">Say it was!</span> 
    <span id="f000079">I want to hear you say it!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000080">But while reconciliation was trembling in the air,</span> 
    <span id="f000081">while each was,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">in a measure,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">stalling it off,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">so that they might the more voluptuously and sentimentally enjoy it when it came,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">they were permanently interrupted by a twenty-minute phone call for Betty from a garrulous aunt.</span> 
    <span id="f000086">At the end of eighteen minutes Perry Parkhurst,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">urged on by pride and suspicion and injured dignity,</span> 
    <span id="f000088">put on his long fur coat,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">picked up his light brown soft hat,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and stalked out the door.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000091">«It’s all over,» he muttered brokenly as he tried to jam his car into first.</span> 
    <span id="f000092">«It’s all over —</span> 
    <span id="f000093">if I have to choke you for an hour,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">damn you!».</span> 
    <span id="f000095">The last to the car,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">which had been standing some time and was quite cold.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">He drove downtown —</span> 
    <span id="f000098">that is,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">he got into a snow rut that led him downtown.</span> 
    <span id="f000100">He sat slouched down very low in his seat,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">much too dispirited to care where he went.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">In front of the Clarendon Hotel he was hailed from the sidewalk by a bad man named Baily,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">who had big teeth and lived at the hotel and had never been in love.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000104">«Perry,» said the bad man softly when the roadster drew up beside him at the curb,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">«I’ve got six quarts of the doggonedest still champagne you ever tasted.</span> 
    <span id="f000106">A third of it’s yours,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">if you’ll come up-stairs and help Martin Macy and me drink it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000109">«Baily,» said Perry tensely,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">«I’ll drink your champagne.</span> 
    <span id="f000111">I’ll drink every drop of it,</span> 
    <span id="f000112">I don’t care if it kills me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000113">«Shut up,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">you nut!» said the bad man gently.</span> 
    <span id="f000115">«They don’t put wood alcohol in champagne.</span> 
    <span id="f000116">This is the stuff that proves the world is more than six thousand years old.</span> 
    <span id="f000117">It’s so ancient that the cork is petrified.</span> 
    <span id="f000118">You have to pull it with a stone drill.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000119">«Take me up-stairs,» said Perry moodily.</span> 
    <span id="f000120">«If that cork sees my heart it’ll fall out from pure mortification.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">The room up-stairs was full of those innocent hotel pictures of little girls eating apples and sitting in swings and talking to dogs.</span> 
    <span id="f000122">The other decorations were neckties and a pink man reading a pink paper devoted to ladies in pink tights.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">«When you have to go into the highways and byways—» said the pink man,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">looking reproachfully at Baily and Perry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000125">«Hello,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">Martin Macy,» said Perry shortly,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">«where’s this stone-age champagne?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000128">«What’s the rush?</span> 
    <span id="f000129">This isn’t an operation,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">understand.</span> 
    <span id="f000131">This is a party.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000132">Perry sat down dully and looked disapprovingly at all the neckties.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000133">Baily leisurely opened the door of a wardrobe and brought out six handsome bottles.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000134">«Take off that darn fur coat!» said Martin Macy to Perry.</span> 
    <span id="f000135">«Or maybe you’d like to have us open all the windows.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000136">«Give me champagne,» said Perry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000137">«Going to the Townsends’ circus ball to-night?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000138">«Am not!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">«’Vited?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000140">«Uh-huh.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000141">«Why not go?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000142">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">I’m sick of parties,» exclaimed Perry.</span> 
    <span id="f000144">«I’m sick of ’em.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">I’ve been to so many that I’m sick of ’em.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000146">«Maybe you’re going to the Howard Tates’ party?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000147">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000148">I tell you;</span> 
    <span id="f000149">I’m sick of ’em.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000150">«Well,» said Macy consolingly,</span> 
    <span id="f000151">«the Tates’ is just for college kids anyways.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000152">«I tell you—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">«I thought you’d be going to one of ’em anyways.</span> 
    <span id="f000154">I see by the papers you haven’t missed a one this Christmas.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000155">«Hm,» grunted Perry morosely.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000156">He would never go to any more parties.</span> 
    <span id="f000157">Classical phrases played in his mind —</span> 
    <span id="f000158">that side of his life was closed,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">closed.</span> 
    <span id="f000160">Now when a man says «closed,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">closed» like that,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">you can be pretty sure that some woman has double-closed him,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">so to speak.</span> 
    <span id="f000164">Perry was also thinking that other classical thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">about how cowardly suicide is.</span> 
    <span id="f000166">A noble thought that one —</span> 
    <span id="f000167">warm and inspiring.</span> 
    <span id="f000168">Think of all the fine men we should lose if suicide were not so cowardly!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000169">An hour later was six o’clock,</span> 
    <span id="f000170">and Perry had lost all resemblance to the young man in the liniment advertisement.</span> 
    <span id="f000171">He looked like a rough draft for a riotous cartoon.</span> 
    <span id="f000172">They were singing —</span> 
    <span id="f000173">an impromptu song of Baily’s improvisation:</span></p> 
   <blockquote> 
   <p><span id="f000174">«One Lump Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">the parlor snake,<br/></span> 
    <span id="f000176">Famous through the city for the way he drinks his tea;<br/></span> 
    <span id="f000177">Plays with it,</span> 
    <span id="f000178">toys with it<br/></span> 
    <span id="f000179">Makes no noise with it,<br/></span> 
    <span id="f000180">Balanced on a napkin on his well-trained knee— »</span></p> 
   </blockquote> 
   <p><span id="f000181">«Trouble is,» said Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">who had just banged his hair with Baily’s comb and was tying an orange tie round it to get the effect of Julius Caesar,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">«that you fellas can’t sing worth a damn.</span> 
    <span id="f000184">Soon’s I leave the air and start singing tenor you start singin’ tenor too.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000185">«’M a natural tenor,» said Macy gravely.</span> 
    <span id="f000186">«Voice lacks cultivation,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">tha’s all.</span> 
    <span id="f000188">Gotta natural voice,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">m’aunt used say.</span> 
    <span id="f000190">Naturally good singer.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000191">«Singers,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">singers,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">all good singers,» remarked Baily,</span> 
    <span id="f000194">who was at the telephone.</span> 
    <span id="f000195">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">not the cabaret;</span> 
    <span id="f000197">I want night egg.</span> 
    <span id="f000198">I mean some dog-gone clerk ’at’s got food —</span> 
    <span id="f000199">food!</span> 
    <span id="f000200">I want—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000201">«Julius Caesar,» announced Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">turning round from the mirror.</span> 
    <span id="f000203">«Man of iron will and stern ’termination.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000204">«Shut up!» yelled Baily.</span> 
    <span id="f000205">«Say,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">iss Mr.&#160;Baily Sen’ up enormous supper.</span> 
    <span id="f000207">Use y’own judgment.</span> 
    <span id="f000208">Right away.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000209">He connected the receiver and the hook with some difficulty,</span> 
    <span id="f000210">and then with his lips closed and an expression of solemn intensity in his eyes went to the lower drawer of his dresser and pulled it open.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000211">«Lookit!» he commanded.</span> 
    <span id="f000212">In his hands he held a truncated garment of pink gingham.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000213">«Pants,» he exclaimed gravely.</span> 
    <span id="f000214">«Lookit!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000215">This was a pink blouse,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">a red tie,</span> 
    <span id="f000217">and a Buster Brown collar.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000218">«Lookit!» he repeated.</span> 
    <span id="f000219">«Costume for the Townsends’ circus ball.</span> 
    <span id="f000220">I’m li’l’ boy carries water for the elephants.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000221">Perry was impressed in spite of himself.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000222">«I’m going to be Julius Caesar,» he announced after a moment of concentration.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000223">«Thought you weren’t going!» said Macy.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000224">«Me?</span> 
    <span id="f000225">Sure I’m goin’,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">Never miss a party.</span> 
    <span id="f000227">Good for the nerves —</span> 
    <span id="f000228">like celery.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000229">«Caesar!» scoffed Baily.</span> 
    <span id="f000230">«Can’t be Caesar!</span> 
    <span id="f000231">He is not about a circus.</span> 
    <span id="f000232">Caesar’s Shakespeare.</span> 
    <span id="f000233">Go as a clown.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000234">Perry shook his head.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000235">«Nope;</span> 
    <span id="f000236">Caesar,»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000237">«Caesar?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000238">«Sure.</span> 
    <span id="f000239">Chariot.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000240">Light dawned on Baily.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000241">«That’s right.</span> 
    <span id="f000242">Good idea.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000243">Perry looked round the room searchingly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000244">«You lend me a bathrobe and this tie,» he said finally.</span> 
    <span id="f000245">Baily considered.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000246">«No good.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000247">«Sure,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">tha’s all I need.</span> 
    <span id="f000249">Caesar was a savage.</span> 
    <span id="f000250">They can’t kick if I come as Caesar,</span> 
    <span id="f000251">if he was a savage.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000252">«No,» said Baily,</span> 
    <span id="f000253">shaking his head slowly.</span> 
    <span id="f000254">«Get a costume over at a costumer’s.</span> 
    <span id="f000255">Over at Nolak’s.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000256">«Closed up.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000257">«Find out.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000258">After a puzzling five minutes at the phone a small,</span> 
    <span id="f000259">weary voice managed to convince Perry that it was Mr.&#160;Nolak speaking,</span> 
    <span id="f000260">and that they would remain open until eight because of the Townsends’ ball.</span> 
    <span id="f000261">Thus assured,</span> 
    <span id="f000262">Perry ate a great amount of filet mignon and drank his third of the last bottle of champagne.</span> 
    <span id="f000263">At eight-fifteen the man in the tall hat who stands in front of the Clarendon found him trying to start his roadster.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000264">«Froze up,» said Perry wisely.</span> 
    <span id="f000265">«The cold froze it.</span> 
    <span id="f000266">The cold air.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000267">«Froze,</span> 
    <span id="f000268">eh?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000269">«Yes.</span> 
    <span id="f000270">Cold air froze it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000271">«Can’t start it?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000272">«Nope.</span> 
    <span id="f000273">Let it stand here till summer.</span> 
    <span id="f000274">One those hot ole August days’ll thaw it out awright.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000275">«Goin’ let it stand?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000276">«Sure.</span> 
    <span id="f000277">Let ’er stand.</span> 
    <span id="f000278">Take a hot thief to steal it.</span> 
    <span id="f000279">Gemme taxi.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000280">The man in the tall hat summoned a taxi.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000281">«Where to,</span> 
    <span id="f000282">mister?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000283">«Go to Nolak’s —</span> 
    <span id="f000284">costume fella.»</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>