<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter II</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">Mrs.&#160;Nolak was short and ineffectual looking,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">and on the cessation of the world war had belonged for a while to one of the new nationalities.</span> 
    <span id="f000004">Owing to unsettled European conditions she had never since been quite sure what she was.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">The shop in which she and her husband performed their daily stint was dim and ghostly,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">and peopled with suits of armor and Chinese mandarins,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">and enormous papier-mâché birds suspended from the ceiling.</span> 
    <span id="f000008">In a vague background many rows of masks glared eyelessly at the visitor,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">and there were glass cases full of crowns and scepters,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and jewels and enormous stomachers,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">and paints,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">and crape hair,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">and wigs of all colors.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000014">When Perry ambled into the shop Mrs.&#160;Nolak was folding up the last troubles of a strenuous day,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">so she thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000016">in a drawer full of pink silk stockings.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000017">«Something for you?» she queried pessimistically.</span> 
    <span id="f000018">«Want costume of Julius Hur,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">the charioteer.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000020">Mrs.&#160;Nolak was sorry,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">but every stitch of charioteer had been rented long ago.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">Was it for the Townsends’ circus ball?</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000023">It was.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000024">«Sorry,» she said,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">«but I don’t think there’s anything left that’s really circus.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">This was an obstacle.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000027">«Hm,» said Perry.</span> 
    <span id="f000028">An idea struck him suddenly.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">«If you’ve got a piece of canvas I could go’s a tent.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">«Sorry,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">but we haven’t anything like that.</span> 
    <span id="f000032">A hardware store is where you’d have to go to.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">We have some very nice Confederate soldiers.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000034">«No.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">No soldiers.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000036">«And I have a very handsome king.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000037">He shook his head.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000038">«Several of the gentlemen» she continued hopefully,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">«are wearing stovepipe hats and swallow-tail coats and going as ringmasters —</span> 
    <span id="f000040">but we’re all out of tall hats.</span> 
    <span id="f000041">I can let you have some crape hair for a mustache.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000042">«Want somep’n ’stinctive.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">«Something —</span> 
    <span id="f000044">let’s see.</span> 
    <span id="f000045">Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">we have a lion’s head,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">and a goose,</span> 
    <span id="f000048">and a camel— »</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000049">«Camel?» The idea seized Perry’s imagination,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">gripped it fiercely.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000051">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">but it needs two people.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">«Camel,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">That’s the idea.</span> 
    <span id="f000055">Lemme see it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000056">The camel was produced from his resting place on a top shelf.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">At first glance he appeared to consist entirely of a very gaunt,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">cadaverous head and a sizable hump,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">but on being spread out he was found to possess a dark brown,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">unwholesome-looking body made of thick,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">cottony cloth.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000062">«You see it takes two people,» explained Mrs.&#160;Nolak,</span> 
    <span id="f000063">holding the camel in frank admiration.</span> 
    <span id="f000064">«If you have a friend he could be part of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">You see there’s sorta pants for two people.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">One pair is for the fella in front,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">and the other pair for the fella in back.</span> 
    <span id="f000068">The fella in front does the lookin’ out through these here eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">an’ the fella in back he’s just gotta stoop over an’ folla the front fella round.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">«Put it on,» commanded Perry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000071">Obediently Mrs.&#160;Nolak put her tabby-cat face inside the camel’s head and turned it from side to side ferociously.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000072">Perry was fascinated.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000073">«What noise does a camel make?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000074">«What?» asked Mrs.&#160;Nolak as her face emerged,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">somewhat smudgy.</span> 
    <span id="f000076">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">what noise?</span> 
    <span id="f000078">Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">he sorta brays.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000080">«Lemme see it in a mirror.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000081">Before a wide mirror Perry tried on the head and turned from side to side appraisingly.</span> 
    <span id="f000082">In the dim light the effect was distinctly pleasing.</span> 
    <span id="f000083">The camel’s face was a study in pessimism,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">decorated with numerous abrasions,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">and it must be admitted that his coat was in that state of general negligence peculiar to camels —</span> 
    <span id="f000086">in fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">he needed to be cleaned and pressed —</span> 
    <span id="f000088">but distinctive he certainly was.</span> 
    <span id="f000089">He was majestic.</span> 
    <span id="f000090">He would have attracted attention in any gathering,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">if only by his melancholy cast of feature and the look of hunger lurking round his shadowy eyes.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000092">«You see you have to have two people,» said Mrs.&#160;Nolak again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000093">Perry tentatively gathered up the body and legs and wrapped them about him,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">tying the hind legs as a girdle round his waist.</span> 
    <span id="f000095">The effect on the whole was bad.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">It was even irreverent —</span> 
    <span id="f000097">like one of those mediaeval pictures of a monk changed into a beast by the ministrations of Satan.</span> 
    <span id="f000098">At the very best the ensemble resembled a humpbacked cow sitting on her haunches among blankets.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000099">«Don’t look like anything at all,» objected Perry gloomily.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000100">«No,» said Mrs.&#160;Nolak;</span> 
    <span id="f000101">«you see you got to have two people.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">A solution flashed upon Perry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000103">«You got a date to-night?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000104">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">I couldn’t possibly—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000106">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">come on,» said Perry encouragingly.</span> 
    <span id="f000108">«Sure you can!</span> 
    <span id="f000109">Here!</span> 
    <span id="f000110">Be good sport,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">and climb into these hind legs.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000112">With difficulty he located them,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and extended their yawning depths ingratiatingly.</span> 
    <span id="f000114">But Mrs.&#160;Nolak seemed loath.</span> 
    <span id="f000115">She backed perversely away.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000116">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">no—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000118">«C’mon!</span> 
    <span id="f000119">You can be the front if you want to.</span> 
    <span id="f000120">Or we’ll flip a coin.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000121">«Make it worth your while.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000122">Mrs.&#160;Nolak set her lips firmly together.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">«Now you just stop!» she said with no coyness implied.</span> 
    <span id="f000124">«None of the gentlemen ever acted up this way before.</span> 
    <span id="f000125">My husband—»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000126">«You got a husband?» demanded Perry.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">«Where is he?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000128">«He’s home.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000129">«Wha’s telephone number?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000130">After considerable parley he obtained the telephone number pertaining to the Nolak penates and got into communication with that small,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">weary voice he had heard once before that day.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">But Mr.&#160;Nolak,</span> 
    <span id="f000133">though taken off his guard and somewhat confused by Perry’s brilliant flow of logic,</span> 
    <span id="f000134">stuck staunchly to his point.</span> 
    <span id="f000135">He refused firmly,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">but with dignity,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">to help out Mr.&#160;Parkhurst in the capacity of back part of a camel.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000138">Having rung off,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">or rather having been rung off on,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">Perry sat down on a three-legged stool to think it over.</span> 
    <span id="f000141">He named over to himself those friends on whom he might call,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">and then his mind paused as Betty Medill’s name hazily and sorrowfully occurred to him.</span> 
    <span id="f000143">He had a sentimental thought.</span> 
    <span id="f000144">He would ask her.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">Their love affair was over,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">but she could not refuse this last request.</span> 
    <span id="f000147">Surely it was not much to ask —</span> 
    <span id="f000148">to help him keep up his end of social obligation for one short night.</span> 
    <span id="f000149">And if she insisted,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">she could be the front part of the camel and he would go as the back.</span> 
    <span id="f000151">His magnanimity pleased him.</span> 
    <span id="f000152">His mind even turned to rosy-colored dreams of a tender reconciliation inside the camel —</span> 
    <span id="f000153">there hidden away from all the world….</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000154">«Now you’d better decide right off.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000155">The bourgeois voice of Mrs.&#160;Nolak broke in upon his mellow fancies and roused him to action.</span> 
    <span id="f000156">He went to the phone and called up the Medill house.</span> 
    <span id="f000157">Miss Betty was out;</span> 
    <span id="f000158">had gone out to dinner.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000159">Then,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">when all seemed lost,</span> 
    <span id="f000161">the camel’s back wandered curiously into the store.</span> 
    <span id="f000162">He was a dilapidated individual with a cold in his head and a general trend about him of downwardness.</span> 
    <span id="f000163">His cap was pulled down low on his head,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">and his chin was pulled down low on his chest,</span> 
    <span id="f000165">his coat hung down to his shoes,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">he looked run-down,</span> 
    <span id="f000167">down at the heels,</span> 
    <span id="f000168">and —</span> 
    <span id="f000169">Salvation Army to the contrary —</span> 
    <span id="f000170">down and out.</span> 
    <span id="f000171">He said that he was the taxicab-driver that the gentleman had hired at the Clarendon Hotel.</span> 
    <span id="f000172">He had been instructed to wait outside,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">but he had waited some time,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">and a suspicion had grown upon him that the gentleman had gone out the back way with purpose to defraud him —</span> 
    <span id="f000175">gentlemen sometimes did —</span> 
    <span id="f000176">so he had come in.</span> 
    <span id="f000177">He sank down onto the three-legged stool.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">«Wanta go to a party?» demanded Perry sternly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000179">«I gotta work,» answered the taxi-driver lugubriously.</span> 
    <span id="f000180">«I gotta keep my job.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000181">«It’s a very good party.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000182">«’S a very good job.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000183">«Come on!» urged Perry.</span> 
    <span id="f000184">«Be a good fella.</span> 
    <span id="f000185">See —</span> 
    <span id="f000186">it’s pretty!» He held the camel up and the taxi-driver looked at it cynically.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000187">«Huh!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000188">Perry searched feverishly among the folds of the cloth.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000189">«See!» he cried enthusiastically,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">holding up a selection of folds.</span> 
    <span id="f000191">«This is your part.</span> 
    <span id="f000192">You don’t even have to talk.</span> 
    <span id="f000193">All you have to do is to walk —</span> 
    <span id="f000194">and sit down occasionally.</span> 
    <span id="f000195">You do all the sitting down.</span> 
    <span id="f000196">Think of it.</span> 
    <span id="f000197">I’m on my feet all the time and <em>you</em> can sit down some of the time.</span> 
    <span id="f000198">The only time <em>I</em> can sit down is when we’re lying down,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">and you can sit down when —</span> 
    <span id="f000200">oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000201">any time.</span> 
    <span id="f000202">See?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000203">«What’s ’at thing?» demanded the individual dubiously.</span> 
    <span id="f000204">«A shroud?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000205">«Not at all,» said Perry indignantly.</span> 
    <span id="f000206">«It’s a camel.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000207">«Huh?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000208">Then Perry mentioned a sum of money,</span> 
    <span id="f000209">and the conversation left the land of grunts and assumed a practical tinge.</span> 
    <span id="f000210">Perry and the taxi-driver tried on the camel in front of the mirror.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000211">«You can’t see it,» explained Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">peering anxiously out through the eyeholes,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">«but honestly,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">ole man,</span> 
    <span id="f000215">you look sim’ly great!</span> 
    <span id="f000216">Honestly!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000217">A grunt from the hump acknowledged this somewhat dubious compliment.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000218">«Honestly,</span> 
    <span id="f000219">you look great!» repeated Perry enthusiastically.</span> 
    <span id="f000220">«Move round a little.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000221">The hind legs moved forward,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">giving the effect of a huge cat-camel hunching his back preparatory to a spring.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000223">«No;</span> 
    <span id="f000224">move sideways.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000225">The camel’s hips went neatly out of joint;</span> 
    <span id="f000226">a hula dancer would have writhed in envy.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000227">«Good,</span> 
    <span id="f000228">isn’t it?» demanded Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000229">turning to Mrs.&#160;Nolak for approval.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000230">«It looks lovely,» agreed Mrs.&#160;Nolak.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000231">«We’ll take it,» said Perry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000232">The bundle was stowed under Perry’s arm and they left the shop.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000233">«Go to the party!» he commanded as he took his seat in the back.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000234">«What party?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000235">«Fanzy-dress party.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000236">«Where’bouts is it?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000237">This presented a new problem.</span> 
    <span id="f000238">Perry tried to remember,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">but the names of all those who had given parties during the holidays danced confusedly before his eyes.</span> 
    <span id="f000240">He could ask Mrs.&#160;Nolak,</span> 
    <span id="f000241">but on looking out the window he saw that the shop was dark.</span> 
    <span id="f000242">Mrs.&#160;Nolak had already faded out,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">a little black smudge far down the snowy street.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000244">«Drive uptown,» directed Perry with fine confidence.</span> 
    <span id="f000245">«If you see a party,</span> 
    <span id="f000246">stop.</span> 
    <span id="f000247">Otherwise I’ll tell you when we get there.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000248">He fell into a hazy daydream and his thoughts wandered again to Betty —</span> 
    <span id="f000249">he imagined vaguely that they had had a disagreement because she refused to go to the party as the back part of the camel.</span> 
    <span id="f000250">He was just slipping off into a chilly doze when he was wakened by the taxi-driver opening the door and shaking him by the arm.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000251">«Here we are,</span> 
    <span id="f000252">maybe.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000253">Perry looked out sleepily.</span> 
    <span id="f000254">A striped awning led from the curb up to a spreading gray stone house,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">from which issued the low drummy whine of expensive jazz.</span> 
    <span id="f000256">He recognized the Howard Tate house.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000257">«Sure,» he said emphatically;</span> 
    <span id="f000258">«’at’s it!</span> 
    <span id="f000259">Tate’s party to-night.</span> 
    <span id="f000260">Sure,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">everybody’s goin’.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000262">«Say,» said the individual anxiously after another look at the awning,</span> 
    <span id="f000263">«you sure these people ain’t gonna romp on me for comin’ here?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000264">Perry drew himself up with dignity.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000265">«’F anybody says anything to you,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">just tell ’em you’re part of my costume.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000267">The visualization of himself as a thing rather than a person seemed to reassure the individual.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000268">«All right,» he said reluctantly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000269">Perry stepped out under the shelter of the awning and began unrolling the camel.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000270">«Let’s go,» he commanded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000271">Several minutes later a melancholy,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">hungry-looking camel,</span> 
    <span id="f000273">emitting clouds of smoke from his mouth and from the tip of his noble hump,</span> 
    <span id="f000274">might have been seen crossing the threshold of the Howard Tate residence,</span> 
    <span id="f000275">passing a startled footman without so much as a snort,</span> 
    <span id="f000276">and heading directly for the main stairs that led up to the ballroom.</span> 
    <span id="f000277">The beast walked with a peculiar gait which varied between an uncertain lockstep and a stampede —</span> 
    <span id="f000278">but can best be described by the word «halting.» The camel had a halting gait —</span> 
    <span id="f000279">and as he walked he alternately elongated and contracted like a gigantic concertina.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>