<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter III</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">The Howard Tates are,</span> 
    <span id="f000003">as every one who lives in Toledo knows,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">the most formidable people in town.</span> 
    <span id="f000005">Mrs.&#160;Howard Tate was a Chicago Todd before she became a Toledo Tate,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">and the family generally affect that conscious simplicity which has begun to be the earmark of American aristocracy.</span> 
    <span id="f000007">The Tates have reached the stage where they talk about pigs and farms and look at you icy-eyed if you are not amused.</span> 
    <span id="f000008">They have begun to prefer retainers rather than friends as dinner guests,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">spend a lot of money in a quiet way,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">having lost all sense of competition,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">are in process of growing quite dull.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000013">The dance this evening was for little Millicent Tate,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">and though all ages were represented,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">the dancers were mostly from school and college —</span> 
    <span id="f000016">the younger married crowd was at the Townsends’ circus ball up at the Tallyho Club.</span> 
    <span id="f000017">Mrs.&#160;Tate was standing just inside tie ballroom,</span> 
    <span id="f000018">following Millicent round with her eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000019">and beaming whenever she caught her eye.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">Beside her were two middle-aged sycophants,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">who were saying what a perfectly exquisite child Millicent was.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">It was at this moment that Mrs.&#160;Tate was grasped firmly by the skirt and her youngest daughter,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">Emily,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">aged eleven,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">hurled herself with an «Oof!» into her mother’s arms.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000027">Emily,</span> 
    <span id="f000028">what’s the trouble?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000029">«Mamma,» said Emily,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">wild-eyed but voluble,</span> 
    <span id="f000031">«there’s something out on the stairs.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">«What?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000033">«There’s a thing out on the stairs,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">mamma.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">I think it’s a big dog,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">mamma,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">but it doesn’t look like a dog.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000038">«What do you mean,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">Emily?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000040">The sycophants waved their heads sympathetically.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">«Mamma,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">it looks like a —</span> 
    <span id="f000043">like a camel.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">Mrs.&#160;Tate laughed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000045">«You saw a mean old shadow,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">dear,</span> 
    <span id="f000047">that’s all.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000048">«No,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">I didn’t.</span> 
    <span id="f000050">No,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">it was some kind of thing,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">mamma —</span> 
    <span id="f000053">big.</span> 
    <span id="f000054">I was going down-stairs to see if there were any more people,</span> 
    <span id="f000055">and this dog or something,</span> 
    <span id="f000056">he was coming up-stairs.</span> 
    <span id="f000057">Kinda funny,</span> 
    <span id="f000058">mamma,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">like he was lame.</span> 
    <span id="f000060">And then he saw me and gave a sort of growl,</span> 
    <span id="f000061">and then he slipped at the top of the landing,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">and I ran.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000063">Mrs.&#160;Tate’s laugh faded.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000064">«The child must have seen something,» she said.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000065">The sycophants agreed that the child must have seen something —</span> 
    <span id="f000066">and suddenly all three women took an instinctive step away from the door as the sounds of muffled steps were audible just outside.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000067">And then three startled gasps rang out as a dark brown form rounded the corner,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">and they saw what was apparently a huge beast looking down at them hungrily.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">«Oof!» cried Mrs.&#160;Tate.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000070">«O-o-oh!» cried the ladies in a chorus.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000071">The camel suddenly humped his back,</span> 
    <span id="f000072">and the gasps turned to shrieks.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000073">«Oh —</span> 
    <span id="f000074">look!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000075">«What is it?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000076">The dancing stopped,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">bat the dancers hurrying over got quite a different impression of the invader;</span> 
    <span id="f000078">in fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">the young people immediately suspected that it was a stunt,</span> 
    <span id="f000080">a hired entertainer come to amuse the party.</span> 
    <span id="f000081">The boys in long trousers looked at it rather disdainfully,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">and sauntered over with their hands in their pockets,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">feeling that their intelligence was being insulted.</span> 
    <span id="f000084">But the girls uttered little shouts of glee.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000085">«It’s a camel!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000086">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">if he isn’t the funniest!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">The camel stood there uncertainly,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">swaying slightly from side to aide,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">and seeming to take in the room in a careful,</span> 
    <span id="f000091">appraising glance;</span> 
    <span id="f000092">then as if he had come to an abrupt decision,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">he turned and ambled swiftly out the door.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000094">Mr.&#160;Howard Tate had just come out of the library on the lower floor,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">and was standing chatting with a young man in the hall.</span> 
    <span id="f000096">Suddenly they heard the noise of shouting up-stairs,</span> 
    <span id="f000097">and almost immediately a succession of bumping sounds,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">followed by the precipitous appearance at the foot of the stairway of a large brown beast that seemed to be going somewhere in a great hurry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000099">«Now what the devil!» said Mr.&#160;Tate,</span> 
    <span id="f000100">starting.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000101">The beast picked itself up not without dignity and,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">affecting an air of extreme nonchalance,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">as if he had just remembered an important engagement,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">started at a mixed gait toward the front door.</span> 
    <span id="f000105">In fact,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">his front legs began casually to run.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000107">«See here now,» said Mr.&#160;Tate sternly.</span> 
    <span id="f000108">«Here!</span> 
    <span id="f000109">Grab it,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">Butterfield!</span> 
    <span id="f000111">Grab it!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000112">The young man enveloped the rear of the camel in a pair of compelling arms,</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and,</span> 
    <span id="f000114">realizing that further locomotion was impossible,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">the front end submitted to capture and stood resignedly in a state of some agitation.</span> 
    <span id="f000116">By this time a flood of young people was pouring down-stairs,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">and Mr.&#160;Tate,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">suspecting everything from an ingenious burglar to an escaped lunatic,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">gave crisp directions to the young man:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000120">«Hold him!</span> 
    <span id="f000121">Lead him in here;</span> 
    <span id="f000122">we’ll soon see.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">The camel consented to be led into the library,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and Mr.&#160;Tate,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">after locking the door,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">took a revolver from a table drawer and instructed the young man to take the thing’s head off.</span> 
    <span id="f000127">Then he gasped and returned the revolver to its hiding-place.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000128">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000129">Perry Parkhurst!» he exclaimed in amazement.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000130">«Got the wrong party,</span> 
    <span id="f000131">Mr.&#160;Tate,» said Perry sheepishly.</span> 
    <span id="f000132">«Hope I didn’t scare you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000133">«Well —</span> 
    <span id="f000134">you gave us a thrill,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">Perry.» Realization dawned on him.</span> 
    <span id="f000136">«You’re bound for the Townsends’ circus ball.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000137">«That’s the general idea.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000138">«Let me introduce Mr.&#160;Butterfield,</span> 
    <span id="f000139">Mr.&#160;Parkhurst.» Then turning to Perry;</span> 
    <span id="f000140">«Butterfield is staying with us for a few days.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000141">«I got a little mixed up,» mumbled Perry.</span> 
    <span id="f000142">«I’m very sorry.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000143">«Perfectly all right;</span> 
    <span id="f000144">most natural mistake in the world.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">I’ve got a clown rig and I’m going down there myself after a while.» He turned to Butterfield.</span> 
    <span id="f000146">«Better change your mind and come down with us.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000147">The young man demurred.</span> 
    <span id="f000148">He was going to bed.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000149">«Have a drink,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">Perry?» suggested Mr.&#160;Tate.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000151">«Thanks,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">I will.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">«And,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">say,» continued Tate quickly,</span> 
    <span id="f000155">«I’d forgotten all about your —</span> 
    <span id="f000156">friend here.» He indicated the rear part of the camel.</span> 
    <span id="f000157">«I didn’t mean to seem discourteous.</span> 
    <span id="f000158">Is it any one I know?</span> 
    <span id="f000159">Bring him out.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000160">«It’s not a friend,» explained Perry hurriedly.</span> 
    <span id="f000161">«I just rented him.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000162">«Does he drink?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000163">«Do you?» demanded Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">twisting himself tortuously round.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000165">There was a faint sound of assent.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000166">«Sure he does!» said Mr.&#160;Tate heartily.</span> 
    <span id="f000167">«A really efficient camel ought to be able to drink enough so it’d last him three days.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000168">«Tell you,» said Perry anxiously,</span> 
    <span id="f000169">«he isn’t exactly dressed up enough to come out.</span> 
    <span id="f000170">If you give me the bottle I can hand it back to him and he can take his inside.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000171">From under the cloth was audible the enthusiastic smacking sound inspired by this suggestion.</span> 
    <span id="f000172">When a butler had appeared with bottles,</span> 
    <span id="f000173">glasses,</span> 
    <span id="f000174">and siphon one of the bottles was handed back;</span> 
    <span id="f000175">thereafter the silent partner could be heard imbibing long potations at frequent intervals.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000176">Thus passed a benign hour.</span> 
    <span id="f000177">At ten o’clock Mr.&#160;Tate decided that they’d better be starting.</span> 
    <span id="f000178">He donned his clown’s costume;</span> 
    <span id="f000179">Perry replaced the camel’s head,</span> 
    <span id="f000180">arid side by side they traversed on foot the single block between the Tate house and the Tallyho Club.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000181">The circus ball was in full swing.</span> 
    <span id="f000182">A great tent fly had been put up inside the ballroom and round the walls had been built rows of booths representing the various attractions of a circus side show,</span> 
    <span id="f000183">but these were now vacated and over the floor swarmed a shouting,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">laughing medley of youth and color —</span> 
    <span id="f000185">downs,</span> 
    <span id="f000186">bearded ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000187">acrobats,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">bareback riders,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">ringmasters,</span> 
    <span id="f000190">tattooed men,</span> 
    <span id="f000191">and charioteers.</span> 
    <span id="f000192">The Townsends had determined to assure their party of success,</span> 
    <span id="f000193">so a great quantity of liquor had been surreptitiously brought over from their house and was now flowing freely.</span> 
    <span id="f000194">A green ribbon ran along the wall completely round the ballroom,</span> 
    <span id="f000195">with pointing arrows alongside and signs which instructed the uninitiated to «Follow the green line!» The green line led down to the bar,</span> 
    <span id="f000196">where waited pure punch and wicked punch and plain dark-green bottles.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000197">On the wall above the bar was another arrow,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">red and very wavy,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">and under it the slogan:</span> 
    <span id="f000200">«Now follow this!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000201">But even amid the luxury of costume and high spirits represented,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">there,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">the entrance of the camel created something of a stir,</span> 
    <span id="f000204">and Perry was immediately surrounded by a curious,</span> 
    <span id="f000205">laughing crowd attempting to penetrate the identity of this beast that stood by the wide doorway eying the dancers with his hungry,</span> 
    <span id="f000206">melancholy gaze.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000207">And then Perry saw Betty standing in front of a booth,</span> 
    <span id="f000208">talking to a comic policeman.</span> 
    <span id="f000209">She was dressed in the costume of an Egyptian snake-charmer:</span> 
    <span id="f000210">her tawny hair was braided and drawn through brass rings,</span> 
    <span id="f000211">the effect crowned with a glittering Oriental tiara.</span> 
    <span id="f000212">Her fair face was stained to a warm olive glow and on her arms and the half moon of her back writhed painted serpents with single eyes of venomous green.</span> 
    <span id="f000213">Her feet were in sandals and her skirt was slit to the knees,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">so that when she walked one caught a glimpse of other slim serpents painted just above her bare ankles.</span> 
    <span id="f000215">Wound about her neck was a glittering cobra.</span> 
    <span id="f000216">Altogether a charming costume —</span> 
    <span id="f000217">one that caused the more nervous among the older women to shrink away from her when she passed,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">and the more troublesome ones to make great talk about «shouldn’t be allowed» and «perfectly disgraceful.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000219">But Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">peering through the uncertain eyes of the camel,</span> 
    <span id="f000221">saw only her face,</span> 
    <span id="f000222">radiant,</span> 
    <span id="f000223">animated,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">and glowing with excitement,</span> 
    <span id="f000225">and her arms and shoulders,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">whose mobile,</span> 
    <span id="f000227">expressive gestures made her always the outstanding figure in any group.</span> 
    <span id="f000228">He was fascinated and his fascination exercised a sobering effect on him.</span> 
    <span id="f000229">With a growing clarity the events of the day came back —</span> 
    <span id="f000230">rage rose within him,</span> 
    <span id="f000231">and with a half-formed intention of taking her away from the crowd he started toward her —</span> 
    <span id="f000232">or rather he elongated slightly,</span> 
    <span id="f000233">for he had neglected to issue the preparatory command necessary to locomotion.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000234">But at this point fickle Kismet,</span> 
    <span id="f000235">who for a day had played with him bitterly and sardonically,</span> 
    <span id="f000236">decided to reward him in full for the amusement he had afforded her.</span> 
    <span id="f000237">Kismet turned the tawny eyes of the snake-charmer to the camel.</span> 
    <span id="f000238">Kismet led her to lean toward the man beside her and say,</span> 
    <span id="f000239">«Who’s that?</span> 
    <span id="f000240">That camel?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000241">«Darned if I know.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000242">But a little man named Warburton,</span> 
    <span id="f000243">who knew it all,</span> 
    <span id="f000244">found it necessary to hazard an opinion:</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000245">«It came in with Mr.&#160;Tate.</span> 
    <span id="f000246">I think part of it’s probably Warren Butterfield,</span> 
    <span id="f000247">the architect from New York,</span> 
    <span id="f000248">who’s visiting the Tates.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000249">Something stirred in Betty Medill —</span> 
    <span id="f000250">that age-old interest of the provincial girl in the visiting man.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000251">«Oh,» she said casually after a slight pause.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000252">At the end of the next dance Betty and her partner finished up within a few feet of the camel.</span> 
    <span id="f000253">With the informal audacity that was the key-note of the evening she reached out and gently rubbed the camel’s nose.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000254">«Hello,</span> 
    <span id="f000255">old camel.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000256">The camel stirred uneasily.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000257">«You ’fraid of me?» said Betty,</span> 
    <span id="f000258">lifting her eyebrows in reproof.</span> 
    <span id="f000259">«Don’t be.</span> 
    <span id="f000260">You see I’m a snake-charmer,</span> 
    <span id="f000261">but I’m pretty good at camels too.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000262">The camel bowed very low and some one made the obvious remark about beauty and the beast.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000263">Mrs.&#160;Townsend approached the group.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000264">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000265">Mr.&#160;Butterfield,» she said helpfully,</span> 
    <span id="f000266">«I wouldn’t have recognised you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000267">Perry bowed again and smiled gleefully behind his mask.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000268">«And who is this with you?» she inquired.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000269">«Oh,» said Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000270">his voice muffled by the thick cloth and quite unrecognizable,</span> 
    <span id="f000271">«he isn’t a fellow,</span> 
    <span id="f000272">Mrs.&#160;Townsend.</span> 
    <span id="f000273">He’s just part of my costume.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000274">Mrs.&#160;Townsend laughed and moved away.</span> 
    <span id="f000275">Perry turned again to Betty,</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000276">«So,» he thought,</span> 
    <span id="f000277">«this is how much she cares!</span> 
    <span id="f000278">On the very day of our final rupture she starts a flirtation with another man —</span> 
    <span id="f000279">an absolute stranger.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000280">On an impulse he gave her a soft nudge with his shoulder and waved his head suggestively toward the hall,</span> 
    <span id="f000281">making it clear that he desired her to leave her partner and accompany him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000282">«By-by,</span> 
    <span id="f000283">Rus,» she called to her partner.</span> 
    <span id="f000284">«This old camel’s got me.</span> 
    <span id="f000285">Where we going,</span> 
    <span id="f000286">Prince of Beasts?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000287">The noble animal made no rejoinder,</span> 
    <span id="f000288">but stalked gravely along in the direction of a secluded nook on the side stairs.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000289">There she seated herself,</span> 
    <span id="f000290">and the camel,</span> 
    <span id="f000291">after some seconds of confusion which included gruff orders and sounds of a heated dispute going on in his interior,</span> 
    <span id="f000292">placed himself beside her —</span> 
    <span id="f000293">his hind legs stretching out uncomfortably across two steps.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000294">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000295">old egg,» said Betty cheerfully,</span> 
    <span id="f000296">«how do you like our happy party?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000297">The old egg indicated that he liked it by rolling his head ecstatically and executing a gleeful kick with his hoofs.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000298">«This is the first time that I ever had a tête-à-tête with a man’s valet ’round» —</span> 
    <span id="f000299">she pointed to the hind legs —</span> 
    <span id="f000300">«or whatever that is.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000301">«Oh,» mumbled Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000302">«he’s deaf and blind.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000303">«I should think you’d feel rather handicapped —</span> 
    <span id="f000304">you can’t very well toddle,</span> 
    <span id="f000305">even if you want to.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000306">The camel hang his head lugubriously.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000307">«I wish you’d say something,» continued Betty sweetly.</span> 
    <span id="f000308">«Say you like me,</span> 
    <span id="f000309">camel.</span> 
    <span id="f000310">Say you think I’m beautiful.</span> 
    <span id="f000311">Say you’d like to belong to a pretty snake-charmer.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000312">The camel would.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000313">«Will you dance with me,</span> 
    <span id="f000314">camel?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000315">The camel would try.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000316">Betty devoted half an hour to the camel.</span> 
    <span id="f000317">She devoted at least half an hour to all visiting men.</span> 
    <span id="f000318">It was usually sufficient.</span> 
    <span id="f000319">When she approached a new man the current débutantes were accustomed to scatter right and left like a close column deploying before a machine-gun.</span> 
    <span id="f000320">And so to Perry Parkhurst was awarded the unique privilege of seeing his love as others saw her.</span> 
    <span id="f000321">He was flirted with violently!</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>