<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter IV</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">This paradise of frail foundation was broken into by the sounds of a general ingress to the ballroom;</span> 
    <span id="f000003">the cotillion was beginning.</span> 
    <span id="f000004">Betty and the camel joined the crowd,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">her brown hand resting lightly on his shoulder,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">defiantly symbolizing her complete adoption of him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000007">When they entered the couples were already seating themselves at tables round the walls,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">and Mrs.&#160;Townsend,</span> 
    <span id="f000009">resplendent as a super bareback rider with rather too rotund calves,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">was standing in the centre with the ringmaster in charge of arrangements.</span> 
    <span id="f000011">At a signal to the band every one rose and began to dance.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000012">«Isn’t it just slick!» sighed Betty.</span> 
    <span id="f000013">«Do you think you can possibly dance?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000014">Perry nodded enthusiastically.</span> 
    <span id="f000015">He felt suddenly exuberant.</span> 
    <span id="f000016">After all,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">he was here incognito talking to his love —</span> 
    <span id="f000018">he could wink patronizingly at the world.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000019">So Perry danced the cotillion.</span> 
    <span id="f000020">I say danced,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">but that is stretching the word far beyond the wildest dreams of the jazziest terpsichorean.</span> 
    <span id="f000022">He suffered his partner to put her hands on his helpless shoulders and pull him here and there over the floor while he hung his huge head docilely over her shoulder and made futile dummy motions with his feet.</span> 
    <span id="f000023">His hind legs danced in a manner all their own,</span> 
    <span id="f000024">chiefly by hopping first on one foot and then on the other.</span> 
    <span id="f000025">Never being sure whether dancing was going on or not,</span> 
    <span id="f000026">the hind legs played safe by going through a series of steps whenever the music started playing.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">So the spectacle was frequently presented of the front part of the camel standing at ease and the rear keeping up a constant energetic motion calculated to rouse a sympathetic perspiration in any soft-hearted observer.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000028">He was frequently favored.</span> 
    <span id="f000029">He danced first with a tall lady covered with straw who announced jovially that she was a bale of hay and coyly begged him not to eat her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000030">«I’d like to;</span> 
    <span id="f000031">you’re so sweet,» said the camel gallantly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000032">Each time the ringmaster shouted his call of «Men up!» he lumbered ferociously for Betty with the cardboard wienerwurst or the photograph of the bearded lady or whatever the favor chanced to be.</span> 
    <span id="f000033">Sometimes he reached her first,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">but usually his rushes were unsuccessful and resulted in intense interior arguments.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000035">«For Heaven’s sake,» Perry would snarl,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">fiercely between his clenched teeth,</span> 
    <span id="f000037">«get a little pep!</span> 
    <span id="f000038">I could have gotten her that time if you’d picked your feet up.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000039">«Well,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">gimme a little warnin’!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">«I did,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">darn you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000043">«I can’t see a dog-gone thing in here.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">«All you have to do is follow me.</span> 
    <span id="f000045">It’s just like dragging a load of sand round to walk with you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000046">«Maybe you wanta try back hare.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000047">«You shut up!</span> 
    <span id="f000048">If these people found you in this room they’d give you the worst beating you ever had.</span> 
    <span id="f000049">They’d take your taxi license away from you!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000050">Perry surprised himself by the ease with which he made this monstrous threat,</span> 
    <span id="f000051">but it seemed to have a soporific influence on his companion,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">for he gave out an «aw gwan» and subsided into abashed silence.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000053">The ringmaster mounted to the top of the piano and waved his hand for silence.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000054">«Prizes!» he cried.</span> 
    <span id="f000055">«Gather round!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000056">«Yea!</span> 
    <span id="f000057">Prizes!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000058">Self-consciously the circle swayed forward.</span> 
    <span id="f000059">The rather pretty girl who had mustered the nerve to come as a bearded lady trembled with excitement,</span> 
    <span id="f000060">thinking to be rewarded for an evening’s hideousness.</span> 
    <span id="f000061">The man who had spent the afternoon having tattoo marks painted on him skulked on the edge of the crowd,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">blushing furiously when any one told him he was sure to get it.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000063">«Lady and gent performers of this circus,» announced the ringmaster jovially,</span> 
    <span id="f000064">«I am sure we will all agree that a good time has been had by all.</span> 
    <span id="f000065">We will now bestow honor where honor is due by bestowing the prizes.</span> 
    <span id="f000066">Mrs.&#160;Townsend has asked me to bestow the prices.</span> 
    <span id="f000067">Now,</span> 
    <span id="f000068">fellow performers,</span> 
    <span id="f000069">the first prize is for that lady who has displayed this evening the most striking,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">becoming» —</span> 
    <span id="f000071">at this point the bearded lady sighed resignedly —</span> 
    <span id="f000072">«and original costume.» Here the bale of hay pricked up her ears.</span> 
    <span id="f000073">«Now I am sure that the decision which has been agreed upon will be unanimous with all here present.</span> 
    <span id="f000074">The first prize goes to Miss Betty Medill,</span> 
    <span id="f000075">the charming Egyptian snake-charmer.» There was a burst of applause,</span> 
    <span id="f000076">chiefly masculine,</span> 
    <span id="f000077">and Miss Betty Medill,</span> 
    <span id="f000078">blushing beautifully through her olive paint,</span> 
    <span id="f000079">was passed up to receive her award.</span> 
    <span id="f000080">With a tender glance the ringmaster handed down to her a huge bouquet of orchids.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000081">«And now,» he continued,</span> 
    <span id="f000082">looking round him,</span> 
    <span id="f000083">«the other prize is for that man who has the most amusing and original costume.</span> 
    <span id="f000084">This prize goes without dispute to a guest in our midst,</span> 
    <span id="f000085">a gentleman who is visiting here but whose stay we all hope will be long and merry —</span> 
    <span id="f000086">in short,</span> 
    <span id="f000087">to the noble camel who has entertained us all by his hungry look and his brilliant dancing throughout the evening.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000088">He ceased and there was a violent clapping,</span> 
    <span id="f000089">and yeaing,</span> 
    <span id="f000090">for it was a popular choice.</span> 
    <span id="f000091">The prize,</span> 
    <span id="f000092">a large box of cigars,</span> 
    <span id="f000093">was put aside for the camel,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">as he was anatomically unable to accept it in person.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000095">«And now,» continued the ringmaster,</span> 
    <span id="f000096">"we will wind up the cotillion with the marriage of Mirth to Folly!</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">«Form for the grand wedding march,</span> 
    <span id="f000098">the beautiful snake-charmer and the noble camel in front!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000099">Betty skipped forward cheerily and wound an olive arm round the camel’s neck.</span> 
    <span id="f000100">Behind them formed the procession of little boys,</span> 
    <span id="f000101">little girls,</span> 
    <span id="f000102">country jakes,</span> 
    <span id="f000103">fat ladies,</span> 
    <span id="f000104">thin men,</span> 
    <span id="f000105">sword-swallowers,</span> 
    <span id="f000106">wild men of Borneo,</span> 
    <span id="f000107">and armless wonders,</span> 
    <span id="f000108">many of them well in their cups,</span> 
    <span id="f000109">all of them excited and happy and dazzled by the flow of light and color round them,</span> 
    <span id="f000110">and by the familiar faces,</span> 
    <span id="f000111">strangely unfamiliar under bizarre wigs and barbaric paint.</span> 
    <span id="f000112">The voluptuous chords of the wedding march done in blasphemous syncopation issued in a delirious blend from the trombones and saxophones —</span> 
    <span id="f000113">and the march began.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000114">«Aren’t you glad,</span> 
    <span id="f000115">camel?» demanded Betty sweetly as they stepped off.</span> 
    <span id="f000116">«Aren’t you glad we’re going to be married and you’re going to belong to the nice snake-charmer ever afterward?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000117">The camel’s front legs pranced,</span> 
    <span id="f000118">expressing excessive joy.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000119">«Minister!</span> 
    <span id="f000120">Minister!</span> 
    <span id="f000121">Where’s the minister?» cried voices out of the revel.</span> 
    <span id="f000122">«Who’s going to be the clergyman?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">The head of Jumbo,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">obese negro,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">waiter at the Tally-ho Club for many years,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">appeared rashly through a half-opened pantry door.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000127">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">Jumbo!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000129">«Get old Jumbo.</span> 
    <span id="f000130">He’s the fella!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000131">«Come on,</span> 
    <span id="f000132">Jumbo.</span> 
    <span id="f000133">How ’bout marrying us a couple?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000134">«Yea!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000135">Jumbo was seized by four comedians,</span> 
    <span id="f000136">stripped of his apron,</span> 
    <span id="f000137">and escorted to a raised daïs at the head of the ball.</span> 
    <span id="f000138">There his collar was removed and replaced back side forward with ecclesiastical effect.</span> 
    <span id="f000139">The parade separated into two lines,</span> 
    <span id="f000140">leaving an aisle for the bride and groom.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000141">«Lawdy,</span> 
    <span id="f000142">man,» roared Jumbo,</span> 
    <span id="f000143">«Ah got ole Bible ’n’ ev’ythin’,</span> 
    <span id="f000144">sho nuff.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000145">He produced a battered Bible from an interior pocket.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000146">«Yea!</span> 
    <span id="f000147">Jumbo’s got a Bible!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000148">«Razor,</span> 
    <span id="f000149">too,</span> 
    <span id="f000150">I’ll bet!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000151">Together the snake-charmer and the camel ascended the cheering aisle and stopped in front of Jumbo.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000152">«Where’s yo license,</span> 
    <span id="f000153">camel?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000154">A man near by prodded Perry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000155">«Give him a piece of paper.</span> 
    <span id="f000156">Anything’ll do.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000157">Perry fumbled confusedly in his pocket,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">found a folded paper,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">and pushed it out through the camel’s mouth.</span> 
    <span id="f000160">Holding it upside down Jumbo pretended to scan it earnestly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000161">«Dis yeah’s a special camel’s license,» he said.</span> 
    <span id="f000162">«Get you ring ready,</span> 
    <span id="f000163">camel.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000164">Inside the camel Perry turned round and addressed his worse half.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000165">«Gimme a ring,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">for Heaven’s sake!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000167">«I ain’t got none,» protested a weary voice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000168">«You have.</span> 
    <span id="f000169">I saw it.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000170">«I ain’t goin’ to take it offen my hand.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000171">«If you don’t I’ll kill you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000172">There was a gasp and Perry felt a huge affair of rhinestone and brass inserted into his hand.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000173">Again he was nudged from the outside.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000174">«Speak up!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000175">«I do!» cried Perry quickly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000176">He heard Betty’s responses given in a debonair tone,</span> 
    <span id="f000177">and even in this burlesque the sound thrilled him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000178">Then he had pushed the rhinestone through a tear in the camel’s coat and was slipping it on her finger,</span> 
    <span id="f000179">muttering ancient and historic words after Jumbo.</span> 
    <span id="f000180">He didn’t want any one to know about this ever.</span> 
    <span id="f000181">His one idea was to slip away without having to disclose his identity,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">for Mr.&#160;Tate had so far kept his secret well.</span> 
    <span id="f000183">A dignified young man,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">Perry —</span> 
    <span id="f000185">and this might injure his infant law practice.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000186">«Embrace the bride!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000187">«Unmask,</span> 
    <span id="f000188">camel,</span> 
    <span id="f000189">and kiss her!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000190">Instinctively his heart beat high as Betty turned to him laughingly and began to strike the card-board muzzle.</span> 
    <span id="f000191">He felt his self-control giving way,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">he longed to surround her with his arms and declare his identity and kiss those lips that smiled only a foot away —</span> 
    <span id="f000193">when suddenly the laughter and applause round them died off and a curious hush fell over the hall.</span> 
    <span id="f000194">Perry and Betty looked up in surprise.</span> 
    <span id="f000195">Jumbo had given vent to a huge «Hello!» in such a startled voice that all eyes were bent on him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000196">«Hello!» he said again.</span> 
    <span id="f000197">He had turned round the camel’s marriage license,</span> 
    <span id="f000198">which he had been holding upside down,</span> 
    <span id="f000199">produced spectacles,</span> 
    <span id="f000200">and was studying it agonizingly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000201">«Why,» he exclaimed,</span> 
    <span id="f000202">and in the pervading silence his words were heard plainly by every one in the room,</span> 
    <span id="f000203">«this yeah’s a sho-nuff marriage permit.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000204">«What?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000205">«Huh?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000206">«Say it again,</span> 
    <span id="f000207">Jumbo!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000208">«Sure you can read?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000209">Jumbo waved them to silence and Perry’s blood burned to fire in his veins as he realized the break he had made.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000210">«Yassuh!» repeated Jumbo.</span> 
    <span id="f000211">«This yeah’s a sho-nuff license,</span> 
    <span id="f000212">and the pa’ties concerned one of ’em is dis yeah young lady,</span> 
    <span id="f000213">Miz Betty Medill,</span> 
    <span id="f000214">and th’ other’s Mistah Perry Pa’khurst.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000215">There was a general gasp,</span> 
    <span id="f000216">and a low rumble broke out as all eyes fell on the camel.</span> 
    <span id="f000217">Betty shrank away from him quickly,</span> 
    <span id="f000218">her tawny eyes giving out sparks of fury.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000219">«Is you Mistah Pa’khurst,</span> 
    <span id="f000220">you camel?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000221">Perry made no answer.</span> 
    <span id="f000222">The crowd pressed up closer and stared at him.</span> 
    <span id="f000223">He stood frozen rigid with embarrassment,</span> 
    <span id="f000224">his cardboard face still hungry and sardonic as he regarded the ominous Jumbo.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000225">«Y’all bettah speak up!» said Jumbo slowly,</span> 
    <span id="f000226">«this yeah’s a mighty serious mattah.</span> 
    <span id="f000227">Outside mah duties at this club ah happens to be a sho-nuff minister in the Firs’ Cullud Baptis’ Church.</span> 
    <span id="f000228">It done look to me as though y’all is gone an’ got married.»</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track06">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p007.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>