<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="chapterTitle"><span id="f000001">Chapter V</span></h1> 
   <p><span id="f000002">The scene that followed will go down forever in the annals of the Tallyho Club.</span> 
    <span id="f000003">Stout matrons fainted,</span> 
    <span id="f000004">one hundred per cent Americans swore,</span> 
    <span id="f000005">wild-eyed débutantes babbled in lightning groups instantly formed and instantly dissolved,</span> 
    <span id="f000006">and a great buzz of chatter,</span> 
    <span id="f000007">virulent yet oddly subdued,</span> 
    <span id="f000008">hummed through the chaotic ballroom.</span> 
    <span id="f000009">Feverish youths swore they would kill Perry or Jumbo or themselves or some one,</span> 
    <span id="f000010">and the Baptis’ preacheh was besieged by a tempestuous covey of clamorous amateur lawyers,</span> 
    <span id="f000011">asking questions,</span> 
    <span id="f000012">making threats,</span> 
    <span id="f000013">demanding precedents,</span> 
    <span id="f000014">ordering the bonds annulled,</span> 
    <span id="f000015">and especially trying to ferret out any hint of prearrangement in what had occurred.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000016">In the corner Mrs.&#160;Townsend was crying softly on the shoulder of Mr.&#160;Howard Tate,</span> 
    <span id="f000017">who was trying vainly to comfort her;</span> 
    <span id="f000018">they were exchanging «all my fault’s» volubly and voluminously.</span> 
    <span id="f000019">Outside on a snow-covered walk Mr.&#160;Cyrus Medill,</span> 
    <span id="f000020">the Aluminum Man,</span> 
    <span id="f000021">was being paced slowly up and down between two brawny charioteers,</span> 
    <span id="f000022">giving vent now to a string of unrepeatables,</span> 
    <span id="f000023">now to wild pleadings that they’d just let him get at Jumbo.</span> 
    <span id="f000024">He was facetiously attired for the evening as a wild man of Borneo,</span> 
    <span id="f000025">and the most exacting stage-manager would have acknowledged any improvement in casting the part to be quite impossible.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000026">Meanwhile the two principals held the real centre of the stage.</span> 
    <span id="f000027">Betty Medill —</span> 
    <span id="f000028">or was it Betty Parkhurst?</span> 
    <span id="f000029">— storming furiously,</span> 
    <span id="f000030">was surrounded by the plainer girls —</span> 
    <span id="f000031">the prettier ones were too busy talking about her to pay much attention to her —</span> 
    <span id="f000032">and over on the other side of the hall stood the camel,</span> 
    <span id="f000033">still intact except for his headpiece,</span> 
    <span id="f000034">which dangled pathetically on his chest.</span> 
    <span id="f000035">Perry was earnestly engaged in making protestations of his innocence to a ring of angry,</span> 
    <span id="f000036">puzzled men.</span> 
    <span id="f000037">Every few minutes,</span> 
    <span id="f000038">just as he had apparently proved his case,</span> 
    <span id="f000039">some one would mention the marriage certificate,</span> 
    <span id="f000040">and the inquisition would begin again.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000041">A girl named Marion Cloud,</span> 
    <span id="f000042">considered the second best belle of Toledo,</span> 
    <span id="f000043">changed the gist of the situation by a remark she made to Betty.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000044">«Well,» she said maliciously,</span> 
    <span id="f000045">«it’ll all blow over,</span> 
    <span id="f000046">dear.</span> 
    <span id="f000047">The courts will annul it without question.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000048">Betty’s angry tears dried miraculously in her eyes,</span> 
    <span id="f000049">her lips shut tight together,</span> 
    <span id="f000050">and she looked stonily at Marion.</span> 
    <span id="f000051">Then she rose and,</span> 
    <span id="f000052">scattering her sympathizers right and left,</span> 
    <span id="f000053">walked directly across the room to Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000054">who stared at her in terror.</span> 
    <span id="f000055">Again silence crept down upon the room.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000056">«Will you have the decency to grant me five minutes’ conversation —</span> 
    <span id="f000057">or wasn’t that included in your plans?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000058">He nodded,</span> 
    <span id="f000059">his mouth unable to form words.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000060">Indicating coldly that he was to follow her she walked out into the hall with her chin uptilted and headed for the privacy of one of the little card-rooms.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000061">Perry started after her,</span> 
    <span id="f000062">but was brought to a jerky halt by the failure of his hind legs to function.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000063">«You stay here!» he commanded savagely.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000064">«I can’t,» whined a voice from the hump,</span> 
    <span id="f000065">«unless you get out first and let me get out.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000066">Perry hesitated,</span> 
    <span id="f000067">but unable any longer to tolerate the eyes of the curious crowd he muttered a command and the camel moved carefully from the room on its four legs.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000068">Betty was waiting for him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000069">«Well,» she began furiously,</span> 
    <span id="f000070">«you see what you’ve done!</span> 
    <span id="f000071">You and that crazy license!</span> 
    <span id="f000072">I told you you shouldn’t have gotten it!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000073">«My dear girl,</span> 
    <span id="f000074">I— »</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000075">«Don’t say ’dear girl’ to me!</span> 
    <span id="f000076">Save that for your real wife if you ever get one after this disgraceful performance.</span> 
    <span id="f000077">And don’t try to pretend it wasn’t all arranged.</span> 
    <span id="f000078">You know you gave that colored waiter money!</span> 
    <span id="f000079">You know you did!</span> 
    <span id="f000080">Do you mean to say you didn’t try to marry me?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000081">«No —</span> 
    <span id="f000082">of course— »</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000083">«Yes,</span> 
    <span id="f000084">you’d better admit it!</span> 
    <span id="f000085">You tried it,</span> 
    <span id="f000086">and now what are you going to do?</span> 
    <span id="f000087">Do you know my father’s nearly crazy?</span> 
    <span id="f000088">It’ll serve you right if he tries to kill you.</span> 
    <span id="f000089">He’ll take his gun and put some cold steel in you.</span> 
    <span id="f000090">Even if this wed —</span> 
    <span id="f000091">this <em>thing</em> can be annulled it’ll hang over me all the rest of my life!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000092">Perry could not resist quoting softly:</span> 
    <span id="f000093">«’Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000094">camel,</span> 
    <span id="f000095">wouldn’t you like to belong to the pretty snake-charmer for all your— »</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000096">«Shut-up!» cried Betty.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000097">There was a pause.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000098">«Betty,» said Perry finally,</span> 
    <span id="f000099">«there’s only one thing to do that will really get us out clear.</span> 
    <span id="f000100">That’s for you to marry me.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000101">«Marry you!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000102">«Yes.</span> 
    <span id="f000103">Really it’s the only— »</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000104">«You shut up!</span> 
    <span id="f000105">I wouldn’t marry you if— if— »</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000106">«I know.</span> 
    <span id="f000107">If I were the last man on earth.</span> 
    <span id="f000108">But if you care anything about your reputation— »</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000109">«Reputation!» she cried.</span> 
    <span id="f000110">«You’re a nice one to think about my reputation <em>now</em>.</span> 
    <span id="f000111">Why didn’t you think about my reputation before you hired that horrible Jumbo to— to— »</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000112">Perry tossed up his hands hopelessly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000113">«Very well.</span> 
    <span id="f000114">I’ll do anything you want.</span> 
    <span id="f000115">Lord knows I renounce all claims!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000116">«But,» said a new voice,</span> 
    <span id="f000117">«I don’t.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000118">Perry and Betty started,</span> 
    <span id="f000119">and she put her hand to her heart.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000120">«For Heaven’s sake,</span> 
    <span id="f000121">what was that?»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000122">«It’s me,» said the camel’s back.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000123">In a minute Perry had whipped off the camel’s skin,</span> 
    <span id="f000124">and a lax,</span> 
    <span id="f000125">limp object,</span> 
    <span id="f000126">his clothes hanging on him damply,</span> 
    <span id="f000127">his hand clenched tightly on an almost empty bottle,</span> 
    <span id="f000128">stood defiantly before them.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000129">«Oh,» cried Betty,</span> 
    <span id="f000130">«you brought that object in here to frighten me!</span> 
    <span id="f000131">You told me he was deaf —</span> 
    <span id="f000132">that awful person!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000133">The camel’s back sat down on a chair with a sigh of satisfaction.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000134">«Don’t talk ’at way about me,</span> 
    <span id="f000135">lady.</span> 
    <span id="f000136">I ain’t no person.</span> 
    <span id="f000137">I’m your husband.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000138">«Husband!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000139">The cry was wrung simultaneously from Betty and Perry.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000140">«Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000141">sure.</span> 
    <span id="f000142">I’m as much your husband as that gink is.</span> 
    <span id="f000143">The smoke didn’t marry you to the camel’s front.</span> 
    <span id="f000144">He married you to the whole camel.</span> 
    <span id="f000145">Why,</span> 
    <span id="f000146">that’s my ring you got on your finger!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000147">With a little yelp she snatched the ring from her finger and flung it passionately at the floor.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000148">«What’s all this?» demanded Perry dazedly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000149">«Jes’ that you better fix me an’ fix me right.</span> 
    <span id="f000150">If you don’t I’m a-gonna have the same claim you got to bein’ married to her!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000151">«That’s bigamy,» said Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000152">turning gravely to Betty.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000153">Then came the supreme moment of Perry’s evening,</span> 
    <span id="f000154">the ultimate chance on which he risked his fortunes.</span> 
    <span id="f000155">He rose and looked first at Betty,</span> 
    <span id="f000156">where she sat weakly,</span> 
    <span id="f000157">aghast at this new complication,</span> 
    <span id="f000158">and then at the individual who swayed from side to side on his chair,</span> 
    <span id="f000159">uncertainly,</span> 
    <span id="f000160">menacingly.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000161">«Very well,» said Perry slowly to the individual,</span> 
    <span id="f000162">«you can have her.</span> 
    <span id="f000163">Betty,</span> 
    <span id="f000164">I’m going to prove to you that as far as I’m concerned our marriage was entirely accidental.</span> 
    <span id="f000165">I’m going to renounce utterly my rights to have you as my wife,</span> 
    <span id="f000166">and give you to —</span> 
    <span id="f000167">to the man whose ring you wear —</span> 
    <span id="f000168">your lawful husband.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000169">There was a pause and four horror-stricken eyes were turned on him,</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000170">«Good-by,</span> 
    <span id="f000171">Betty,» he said brokenly.</span> 
    <span id="f000172">«Don’t forget me in your new-found happiness.</span> 
    <span id="f000173">I’m going to leave for the Far West on the morning train.</span> 
    <span id="f000174">Think of me kindly,</span> 
    <span id="f000175">Betty.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000176">With a last glance at them he turned and his head rested on his chest as his hand touched the door-knob.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000177">«Good-by,» he repeated.</span> 
    <span id="f000178">He turned the door-knob.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000179">But at this sound the snakes and silk and tawny hair precipitated themselves violently toward him.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000180">«Oh,</span> 
    <span id="f000181">Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000182">don’t leave me!</span> 
    <span id="f000183">Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000184">Perry,</span> 
    <span id="f000185">take me with you!»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000186">Her tears flowed damply on his neck.</span> 
    <span id="f000187">Calmly he folded his arms about her.</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000188">«I don’t care,» she cried.</span> 
    <span id="f000189">«I love you and if you can wake up a minister at this hour and have it done over again I’ll go West with you.»</span></p> 
   <p><span id="f000190">Over her shoulder the front part of the camel looked at the back part of the camel —</span> 
    <span id="f000191">and they exchanged a particularly subtle,</span> 
    <span id="f000192">esoteric sort of wink that only true camels can understand.</span></p> 
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p006.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track07">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>


 </body>
</html>