<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Dorlene Kaplan</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">That Dead Men Rise up Never</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Jack London</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">The month in which my seventeenth birthday arrived I signed on before the mast on the <em>Sophie Sutherland</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000008">a three-topmast schooner bound on a seven-months’ seal-hunting cruise to the coast of Japan.</span>
   <span id="f000009">We sailed from San Francisco,</span>
   <span id="f000010">and immediately I found confronting me a problem of no inconsiderable proportions.</span>
   <span id="f000011">There were twelve men of us in the forecastle,</span>
   <span id="f000012">ten of whom were hardened,</span>
   <span id="f000013">tarry-thumbed sailors.</span>
   <span id="f000014">Not alone was I a youth and on my first voyage,</span>
   <span id="f000015">but I had for shipmates men who had come through the hard school of the merchant service of Europe.</span>
   <span id="f000016">As boys,</span>
   <span id="f000017">they had had to perform their ship’s duty,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and,</span>
   <span id="f000019">in addition,</span>
   <span id="f000020">by immemorial sea custom,</span>
   <span id="f000021">they had had to be the slaves of the ordinary and able-bodied seamen.</span>
   <span id="f000022">When they became ordinary seamen they were still the slaves of the able-bodied.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Thus,</span>
   <span id="f000024">in the forecastle,</span>
   <span id="f000025">with the watch below,</span>
   <span id="f000026">an able seaman,</span>
   <span id="f000027">lying in his bunk,</span>
   <span id="f000028">will order an ordinary seaman to fetch him his shoes or bring him a drink of water.</span>
   <span id="f000029">Now the ordinary seaman may be lying in <em>his</em> bunk.</span>
   <span id="f000030">He is just as tired as the able seaman.</span>
   <span id="f000031">Yet he must get out of his bunk and fetch and carry.</span>
   <span id="f000032">If he refuses,</span>
   <span id="f000033">he will be beaten.</span>
   <span id="f000034">If,</span>
   <span id="f000035">perchance,</span>
   <span id="f000036">he is so strong that he can whip the able seaman,</span>
   <span id="f000037">then all the able seamen,</span>
   <span id="f000038">or as many as may be necessary,</span>
   <span id="f000039">pitch upon the luckless devil and administer the beating.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">My problem now becomes apparent.</span>
   <span id="f000041">These hard-bit Scandinavian sailors had come through a hard school.</span>
   <span id="f000042">As boys they had served their mates,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and as able seamen they looked to be served by other boys.</span>
   <span id="f000044">I was a boy – withal with a man’s body.</span>
   <span id="f000045">I had never been to sea before – withal I was a good sailor and knew my business.</span>
   <span id="f000046">It was either a case of holding my own with them or of going under.</span>
   <span id="f000047">I had signed on as an equal,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and an equal I must maintain myself,</span>
   <span id="f000049">or else endure seven months of hell at their hands.</span>
   <span id="f000050">And it was this very equality they resented.</span>
   <span id="f000051">By what right was I an equal?</span>
   <span id="f000052">I had not earned that high privilege.</span>
   <span id="f000053">I had not endured the miseries they had endured as maltreated boys or bullied ordinaries.</span>
   <span id="f000054">Worse than that,</span>
   <span id="f000055">I was a land-lubber making his first voyage.</span>
   <span id="f000056">And yet,</span>
   <span id="f000057">by the injustice of fate,</span>
   <span id="f000058">on the ship’s articles I was their equal.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">My method was deliberate,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and simple,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and drastic.</span>
   <span id="f000062">In the first place,</span>
   <span id="f000063">I resolved to do my work,</span>
   <span id="f000064">no matter how hard or dangerous it might be,</span>
   <span id="f000065">so well that no man would be called upon to do it for me.</span>
   <span id="f000066">Further,</span>
   <span id="f000067">I put ginger in my muscles.</span>
   <span id="f000068">I never malingered when pulling on a rope,</span>
   <span id="f000069">for I knew the eagle eyes of my forecastle mates were squinting for just such evidences of my inferiority.</span>
   <span id="f000070">I made it a point to be among the first of the watch going on deck,</span>
   <span id="f000071">among the last going below,</span>
   <span id="f000072">never leaving a sheet or tackle for some one else to coil over a pin.</span>
   <span id="f000073">I was always eager for the run aloft for the shifting of topsail sheets and tacks,</span>
   <span id="f000074">or for the setting or taking in of topsails;</span>
   <span id="f000075">and in these matters I did more than my share.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">Furthermore,</span>
   <span id="f000077">I was on a hair-trigger of resentment myself.</span>
   <span id="f000078">I knew better than to accept any abuse or the slightest patronizing.</span>
   <span id="f000079">At the first hint of such,</span>
   <span id="f000080">I went off – I exploded.</span>
   <span id="f000081">I might be beaten in the subsequent fight,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but I left the impression that I was a wild-cat and that I would just as willingly fight again.</span>
   <span id="f000083">My intention was to demonstrate that I would tolerate no imposition.</span>
   <span id="f000084">I proved that the man who imposed on me must have a fight on his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000085">And doing my work well,</span>
   <span id="f000086">the innate justice of the men,</span>
   <span id="f000087">assisted by their wholesome dislike for a clawing and rending wild-cat ruction,</span>
   <span id="f000088">soon led them to give over their hectoring.</span>
   <span id="f000089">After a bit of strife,</span>
   <span id="f000090">my attitude was accepted,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and it was my pride that I was taken in as an equal in spirit as well as in fact.</span>
   <span id="f000092">From then on,</span>
   <span id="f000093">everything was beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and the voyage promised to be a happy one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">But there was one other man in the forecastle.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Counting the Scandinavians as ten,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and myself as the eleventh,</span>
   <span id="f000098">this man was the twelfth and last.</span>
   <span id="f000099">We never knew his name,</span>
   <span id="f000100">contenting ourselves with calling him the “Bricklayer.” He was from Missouri – at least he so informed us in the one meagre confidence he was guilty of in the early days of the voyage.</span>
   <span id="f000101">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000102">at that time,</span>
   <span id="f000103">we learned several other things.</span>
   <span id="f000104">He was a bricklayer by trade.</span>
   <span id="f000105">He had never even seen salt water until the week before he joined us,</span>
   <span id="f000106">at which time he had arrived in San Francisco and looked upon San Francisco Bay.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Why he,</span>
   <span id="f000108">of all men,</span>
   <span id="f000109">at forty years of age,</span>
   <span id="f000110">should have felt the prod to go to sea,</span>
   <span id="f000111">was beyond all of us;</span>
   <span id="f000112">for it was our unanimous conviction that no man less fitted for the sea had ever embarked on it.</span>
   <span id="f000113">But to sea he had come.</span>
   <span id="f000114">After a week’s stay in a sailors’ boarding-house,</span>
   <span id="f000115">he had been shoved aboard of us as an able seaman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">All hands had to do his work for him.</span>
   <span id="f000117">Not only did he know nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but he proved himself unable to learn anything.</span>
   <span id="f000119">Try as they would,</span>
   <span id="f000120">they could never teach him to steer.</span>
   <span id="f000121">To him the compass must have been a profound and awful whirligig.</span>
   <span id="f000122">He never mastered its cardinal points,</span>
   <span id="f000123">much less the checking and steadying of the ship on her course.</span>
   <span id="f000124">He never did come to know whether ropes should be coiled from left to right or from right to left.</span>
   <span id="f000125">It was mentally impossible for him to learn the easy muscular trick of throwing his weight on a rope in pulling and hauling.</span>
   <span id="f000126">The simplest knots and turns were beyond his comprehension,</span>
   <span id="f000127">while he was mortally afraid of going aloft.</span>
   <span id="f000128">Bullied by captain and mate,</span>
   <span id="f000129">he was one day forced aloft.</span>
   <span id="f000130">He managed to get underneath the crosstrees,</span>
   <span id="f000131">and there he froze to the ratlines.</span>
   <span id="f000132">Two sailors had to go after him to help him down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">All of which was bad enough had there been no worse.</span>
   <span id="f000134">But he was vicious,</span>
   <span id="f000135">malignant,</span>
   <span id="f000136">dirty,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and without common decency.</span>
   <span id="f000138">He was a tall,</span>
   <span id="f000139">powerful man,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and he fought with everybody.</span>
   <span id="f000141">And there was no fairness in his fighting.</span>
   <span id="f000142">His first fight on board,</span>
   <span id="f000143">the first day out,</span>
   <span id="f000144">was with me,</span>
   <span id="f000145">when he,</span>
   <span id="f000146">desiring to cut a plug of chewing tobacco,</span>
   <span id="f000147">took my personal table- knife for the purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000148">and whereupon,</span>
   <span id="f000149">I,</span>
   <span id="f000150">on a hair-trigger,</span>
   <span id="f000151">promptly exploded.</span>
   <span id="f000152">After that he fought with nearly every member of the crew.</span>
   <span id="f000153">When his clothing became too filthy to be bearable by the rest of us,</span>
   <span id="f000154">we put it to soak and stood over him while he washed it.</span>
   <span id="f000155">In short,</span>
   <span id="f000156">the Bricklayer was one of those horrible and monstrous things that one must see in order to be convinced that they exist.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">I will only say that he was a beast,</span>
   <span id="f000158">and that we treated him like a beast.</span>
   <span id="f000159">It is only by looking back through the years that I realise how heartless we were to him.</span>
   <span id="f000160">He was without sin.</span>
   <span id="f000161">He could not,</span>
   <span id="f000162">by the very nature of things,</span>
   <span id="f000163">have been anything else than he was.</span>
   <span id="f000164">He had not made himself,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and for his making he was not responsible.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Yet we treated him as a free agent and held him personally responsible for all that he was and that he should not have been.</span>
   <span id="f000167">As a result,</span>
   <span id="f000168">our treatment of him was as terrible as he was himself terrible.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Finally we gave him the silent treatment,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and for weeks before he died we neither spoke to him nor did he speak to us.</span>
   <span id="f000171">And for weeks he moved among us,</span>
   <span id="f000172">or lay in his bunk in our crowded house,</span>
   <span id="f000173">grinning at us his hatred and malignancy.</span>
   <span id="f000174">He was a dying man,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and he knew it,</span>
   <span id="f000176">and we knew it.</span>
   <span id="f000177">And furthermore,</span>
   <span id="f000178">he knew that we wanted him to die.</span>
   <span id="f000179">He cumbered our life with his presence,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and ours was a rough life that made rough men of us.</span>
   <span id="f000181">And so he died,</span>
   <span id="f000182">in a small space crowded by twelve men and as much alone as if he had died on some desolate mountain peak.</span>
   <span id="f000183">No kindly word,</span>
   <span id="f000184">no last word,</span>
   <span id="f000185">was passed between.</span>
   <span id="f000186">He died as he had lived,</span>
   <span id="f000187">a beast,</span>
   <span id="f000188">and he died hating us and hated by us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">And now I come to the most startling moment of my life.</span>
   <span id="f000190">No sooner was he dead than he was flung overboard.</span>
   <span id="f000191">He died in a night of wind,</span>
   <span id="f000192">drawing his last breath as the men tumbled into their oilskins to the cry of “All hands!” And he was flung overboard,</span>
   <span id="f000193">several hours later,</span>
   <span id="f000194">on a day of wind.</span>
   <span id="f000195">Not even a canvas wrapping graced his mortal remains;</span>
   <span id="f000196">nor was he deemed worthy of bars of iron at his feet.</span>
   <span id="f000197">We sewed him up in the blankets in which he died and laid him on a hatch-cover for’ard of the main-hatch on the port side.</span>
   <span id="f000198">A gunnysack,</span>
   <span id="f000199">half full of galley coal,</span>
   <span id="f000200">was fastened to his feet.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">It was bitter cold.</span>
   <span id="f000202">The weather-side of every rope,</span>
   <span id="f000203">spar,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and stay was coated with ice,</span>
   <span id="f000205">while all the rigging was a harp,</span>
   <span id="f000206">singing and shouting under the fierce hand of the wind.</span>
   <span id="f000207">The schooner,</span>
   <span id="f000208">hove to,</span>
   <span id="f000209">lurched and floundered through the sea,</span>
   <span id="f000210">rolling her scuppers under and perpetually flooding the deck with icy salt water.</span>
   <span id="f000211">We of the forecastle stood in sea- boots and oilskins.</span>
   <span id="f000212">Our hands were mittened,</span>
   <span id="f000213">but our heads were bared in the presence of the death we did not respect.</span>
   <span id="f000214">Our ears stung and numbed and whitened,</span>
   <span id="f000215">and we yearned for the body to be gone.</span>
   <span id="f000216">But the interminable reading of the burial service went on.</span>
   <span id="f000217">The captain had mistaken his place,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and while he read on without purpose we froze our ears and resented this final hardship thrust upon us by the helpless cadaver.</span>
   <span id="f000219">As from the beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000220">so to the end,</span>
   <span id="f000221">everything had gone wrong with the Bricklayer.</span>
   <span id="f000222">Finally,</span>
   <span id="f000223">the captain’s son,</span>
   <span id="f000224">irritated beyond measure,</span>
   <span id="f000225">jerked the book from the palsied fingers of the old man and found the place.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Again the quavering voice of the captain arose.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Then came the cue:</span>
   <span id="f000228">“And the body shall be cast into the sea.” We elevated one end of the hatch-cover,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and the Bricklayer plunged outboard and was gone.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000230">Back into the forecastle we cleaned house,</span>
   <span id="f000231">washing out the dead man’s bunk and removing every vestige of him.</span>
   <span id="f000232">By sea law and sea custom,</span>
   <span id="f000233">we should have gathered his effects together and turned them over to the captain,</span>
   <span id="f000234">who,</span>
   <span id="f000235">later,</span>
   <span id="f000236">would have held an auction in which we should have bid for the various articles.</span>
   <span id="f000237">But no man wanted them,</span>
   <span id="f000238">so we tossed them up on deck and overboard in the wake of the departed body – the last ill- treatment we could devise to wreak upon the one we had hated so.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000240">it was raw,</span>
   <span id="f000241">believe me;</span>
   <span id="f000242">but the life we lived was raw,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and we were as raw as the life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">The Bricklayer’s bunk was better than mine.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Less sea water leaked down through the deck into it,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and the light was better for lying in bed and reading.</span>
   <span id="f000247">Partly for this reason I proceeded to move into his bunk.</span>
   <span id="f000248">My other reason was pride.</span>
   <span id="f000249">I saw the sailors were superstitious,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and by this act I determined to show that I was braver than they.</span>
   <span id="f000251">I would cap my proved equality by a deed that would compel their recognition of my superiority.</span>
   <span id="f000252">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000253">the arrogance of youth!</span>
   <span id="f000254">But let that pass.</span>
   <span id="f000255">The sailors were appalled by my intention.</span>
   <span id="f000256">One and all,</span>
   <span id="f000257">they warned me that in the history of the sea no man had taken a dead man’s bunk and lived to the end of the voyage.</span>
   <span id="f000258">They instanced case after case in their personal experience.</span>
   <span id="f000259">I was obdurate.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Then they begged and pleaded with me,</span>
   <span id="f000261">and my pride was tickled in that they showed they really liked me and were concerned about me.</span>
   <span id="f000262">This but served to confirm me in my madness.</span>
   <span id="f000263">I moved in,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and,</span>
   <span id="f000265">lying in the dead man’s bunk,</span>
   <span id="f000266">all afternoon and evening listened to dire prophecies of my future.</span>
   <span id="f000267">Also were told stories of awful deaths and gruesome ghosts that secretly shivered the hearts of all of us.</span>
   <span id="f000268">Saturated with this,</span>
   <span id="f000269">yet scoffing at it,</span>
   <span id="f000270">I rolled over at the end of the second dog-watch and went to sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">At ten minutes to twelve I was called,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and at twelve I was dressed and on deck,</span>
   <span id="f000273">relieving the man who had called me.</span>
   <span id="f000274">On the sealing grounds,</span>
   <span id="f000275">when hove to,</span>
   <span id="f000276">a watch of only a single man is kept through the night,</span>
   <span id="f000277">each man holding the deck for an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000278">It was a dark night,</span>
   <span id="f000279">though not a black one.</span>
   <span id="f000280">The gale was breaking up,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and the clouds were thinning.</span>
   <span id="f000282">There should have been a moon,</span>
   <span id="f000283">and,</span>
   <span id="f000284">though invisible,</span>
   <span id="f000285">in some way a dim,</span>
   <span id="f000286">suffused radiance came from it.</span>
   <span id="f000287">I paced back and forth across the deck amidships.</span>
   <span id="f000288">My mind was filled with the event of the day and with the horrible tales my shipmates had told,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and yet I dare to say,</span>
   <span id="f000290">here and now,</span>
   <span id="f000291">that I was not afraid.</span>
   <span id="f000292">I was a healthy animal,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and furthermore,</span>
   <span id="f000294">intellectually,</span>
   <span id="f000295">I agreed with Swinburne that dead men rise up never.</span>
   <span id="f000296">The Bricklayer was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and that was the end of it.</span>
   <span id="f000298">He would rise up never – at least,</span>
   <span id="f000299">never on the deck of the <em>Sophie Sutherland</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000300">Even then he was in the ocean depths miles to windward of our leeward drift,</span>
   <span id="f000301">and the likelihood was that he was already portioned out in the maws of many sharks.</span>
   <span id="f000302">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000303">my mind pondered on the tales of the ghosts of dead men I had heard,</span>
   <span id="f000304">and I speculated on the spirit world.</span>
   <span id="f000305">My conclusion was that if the spirits of the dead still roamed the world they carried the goodness or the malignancy of the earth-life with them.</span>
   <span id="f000306">Therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000307">granting the hypothesis</span>
   <span id="f000308">(which I didn’t grant at all),</span>
   <span id="f000309">the ghost of the Bricklayer was bound to be as hateful and malignant as he in life had been.</span>
   <span id="f000310">But there wasn’t any Bricklayer’s ghost – that I insisted upon.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">A few minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000312">thinking thus,</span>
   <span id="f000313">I paced up and down.</span>
   <span id="f000314">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000315">glancing casually for’ard,</span>
   <span id="f000316">along the port side,</span>
   <span id="f000317">I leaped like a startled deer and in a blind madness of terror rushed aft along the poop,</span>
   <span id="f000318">heading for the cabin.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Gone was all my arrogance of youth and my intellectual calm.</span>
   <span id="f000320">I had seen a ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000321">There,</span>
   <span id="f000322">in the dim light,</span>
   <span id="f000323">where we had flung the dead man overboard,</span>
   <span id="f000324">I had seen a faint and wavering form.</span>
   <span id="f000325">Six-feet in length it was,</span>
   <span id="f000326">slender,</span>
   <span id="f000327">and of substance so attenuated that I had distinctly seen through it the tracery of the fore-rigging.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">As for me,</span>
   <span id="f000329">I was as panic-stricken as a frightened horse.</span>
   <span id="f000330">I,</span>
   <span id="f000331">as I,</span>
   <span id="f000332">had ceased to exist.</span>
   <span id="f000333">Through me were vibrating the fibre-instincts of ten thousand generations of superstitious forebears who had been afraid of the dark and the things of the dark.</span>
   <span id="f000334">I was not I.</span>
   <span id="f000335">I was,</span>
   <span id="f000336">in truth,</span>
   <span id="f000337">those ten thousand forebears.</span>
   <span id="f000338">I was the race,</span>
   <span id="f000339">the whole human race,</span>
   <span id="f000340">in its superstitious infancy.</span>
   <span id="f000341">Not until part way down the cabin-companionway did my identity return to me.</span>
   <span id="f000342">I checked my flight and clung to the steep ladder,</span>
   <span id="f000343">suffocating,</span>
   <span id="f000344">trembling,</span>
   <span id="f000345">and dizzy.</span>
   <span id="f000346">Never,</span>
   <span id="f000347">before nor since,</span>
   <span id="f000348">have I had such a shock.</span>
   <span id="f000349">I clung to the ladder and considered.</span>
   <span id="f000350">I could not doubt my senses.</span>
   <span id="f000351">That I had seen something there was no discussion.</span>
   <span id="f000352">But what was it?</span>
   <span id="f000353">Either a ghost or a joke.</span>
   <span id="f000354">There could be nothing else.</span>
   <span id="f000355">If a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000356">the question was:</span>
   <span id="f000357">would it appear again?</span>
   <span id="f000358">If it did not,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and I aroused the ship’s officers,</span>
   <span id="f000360">I would make myself the laughing stock of all on board.</span>
   <span id="f000361">And by the same token,</span>
   <span id="f000362">if it were a joke,</span>
   <span id="f000363">my position would be still more ridiculous.</span>
   <span id="f000364">If I were to retain my hard-won place of equality,</span>
   <span id="f000365">it would never do to arouse any one until I ascertained the nature of the thing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">I am a brave man.</span>
   <span id="f000367">I dare to say so;</span>
   <span id="f000368">for in fear and trembling I crept up the companion-way and went back to the spot from which I had first seen the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000369">It had vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000370">My bravery was qualified,</span>
   <span id="f000371">however.</span>
   <span id="f000372">Though I could see nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000373">I was afraid to go for’ard to the spot where I had seen the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000374">I resumed my pacing up and down,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and though I cast many an anxious glance toward the dread spot,</span>
   <span id="f000376">nothing manifested itself.</span>
   <span id="f000377">As my equanimity returned to me,</span>
   <span id="f000378">I concluded that the whole affair had been a trick of the imagination and that I had got what I deserved for allowing my mind to dwell on such matters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000379">Once more my glances for’ard were casual,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and not anxious;</span>
   <span id="f000381">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000382">suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000383">I was a madman,</span>
   <span id="f000384">rushing wildly aft.</span>
   <span id="f000385">I had seen the thing again,</span>
   <span id="f000386">the long,</span>
   <span id="f000387">wavering attenuated substance through which could be seen the fore-rigging.</span>
   <span id="f000388">This time I had reached only the break of the poop when I checked myself.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Again I reasoned over the situation,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and it was pride that counselled strongest.</span>
   <span id="f000391">I could not afford to make myself a laughing-stock.</span>
   <span id="f000392">This thing,</span>
   <span id="f000393">whatever it was,</span>
   <span id="f000394">I must face alone.</span>
   <span id="f000395">I must work it out myself.</span>
   <span id="f000396">I looked back to the spot where we had tilted the Bricklayer.</span>
   <span id="f000397">It was vacant.</span>
   <span id="f000398">Nothing moved.</span>
   <span id="f000399">And for a third time I resumed my amidships pacing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000400">In the absence of the thing my fear died away and my intellectual poise returned.</span>
   <span id="f000401">Of course it was not a ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000402">Dead men did not rise up.</span>
   <span id="f000403">It was a joke,</span>
   <span id="f000404">a cruel joke.</span>
   <span id="f000405">My mates of the forecastle,</span>
   <span id="f000406">by some unknown means,</span>
   <span id="f000407">were frightening me.</span>
   <span id="f000408">Twice already must they have seen me run aft.</span>
   <span id="f000409">My cheeks burned with shame.</span>
   <span id="f000410">In fancy I could hear the smothered chuckling and laughter even then going on in the forecastle.</span>
   <span id="f000411">I began to grow angry.</span>
   <span id="f000412">Jokes were all very well,</span>
   <span id="f000413">but this was carrying the thing too far.</span>
   <span id="f000414">I was the youngest on board,</span>
   <span id="f000415">only a youth,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and they had no right to play tricks on me of the order that I well knew in the past had made raving maniacs of men and women.</span>
   <span id="f000417">I grew angrier and angrier,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and resolved to show them that I was made of sterner stuff and at the same time to wreak my resentment upon them.</span>
   <span id="f000419">If the thing appeared again,</span>
   <span id="f000420">I made my mind up that I would go up to it – furthermore,</span>
   <span id="f000421">that I would go up to it knife in hand.</span>
   <span id="f000422">When within striking distance,</span>
   <span id="f000423">I would strike.</span>
   <span id="f000424">If a man,</span>
   <span id="f000425">he would get the knife-thrust he deserved.</span>
   <span id="f000426">If a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000427">well,</span>
   <span id="f000428">it wouldn’t hurt the ghost any,</span>
   <span id="f000429">while I would have learned that dead men did rise up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000430">Now I was very angry,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and I was quite sure the thing was a trick;</span>
   <span id="f000432">but when the thing appeared a third time,</span>
   <span id="f000433">in the same spot,</span>
   <span id="f000434">long,</span>
   <span id="f000435">attenuated,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and wavering,</span>
   <span id="f000437">fear surged up in me and drove most of my anger away.</span>
   <span id="f000438">But I did not run.</span>
   <span id="f000439">Nor did I take my eyes from the thing.</span>
   <span id="f000440">Both times before,</span>
   <span id="f000441">it had vanished while I was running away,</span>
   <span id="f000442">so I had not seen the manner of its going.</span>
   <span id="f000443">I drew my sheath-knife from my belt and began my advance.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Step by step,</span>
   <span id="f000445">nearer and nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000446">the effort to control myself grew more severe.</span>
   <span id="f000447">The struggle was between my will,</span>
   <span id="f000448">my identity,</span>
   <span id="f000449">my very self,</span>
   <span id="f000450">on the one hand,</span>
   <span id="f000451">and on the other,</span>
   <span id="f000452">the ten thousand ancestors who were twisted into the fibres of me and whose ghostly voices were whispering of the dark and the fear of the dark that had been theirs in the time when the world was dark and full of terror.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000453">I advanced more slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000454">and still the thing wavered and flitted with strange eerie lurches.</span>
   <span id="f000455">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000456">right before my eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000457">it vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000458">I saw it vanish.</span>
   <span id="f000459">Neither to the right nor left did it go,</span>
   <span id="f000460">nor backward.</span>
   <span id="f000461">Right there,</span>
   <span id="f000462">while I gazed upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000463">it faded away,</span>
   <span id="f000464">ceased to be.</span>
   <span id="f000465">I didn’t die,</span>
   <span id="f000466">but I swear,</span>
   <span id="f000467">from what I experienced in those few succeeding moments,</span>
   <span id="f000468">that I know full well that men can die of fright.</span>
   <span id="f000469">I stood there,</span>
   <span id="f000470">knife in hand,</span>
   <span id="f000471">swaying automatically to the roll of the ship,</span>
   <span id="f000472">paralysed with fear.</span>
   <span id="f000473">Had the Bricklayer suddenly seized my throat with corporeal fingers and proceeded to throttle me,</span>
   <span id="f000474">it would have been no more than I expected.</span>
   <span id="f000475">Dead men did rise up,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and that would be the most likely thing the malignant Bricklayer would do.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000477">But he didn’t seize my throat.</span>
   <span id="f000478">Nothing happened.</span>
   <span id="f000479">And,</span>
   <span id="f000480">since nature abhors a status,</span>
   <span id="f000481">I could not remain there in the one place forever paralysed.</span>
   <span id="f000482">I turned and started aft.</span>
   <span id="f000483">I did not run.</span>
   <span id="f000484">What was the use?</span>
   <span id="f000485">What chance had I against the malevolent world of ghosts?</span>
   <span id="f000486">Flight,</span>
   <span id="f000487">with me,</span>
   <span id="f000488">was the swiftness of my legs.</span>
   <span id="f000489">The pursuit,</span>
   <span id="f000490">with a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000491">was the swiftness of thought.</span>
   <span id="f000492">And there were ghosts.</span>
   <span id="f000493">I had seen one.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000494">And so,</span>
   <span id="f000495">stumbling slowly aft,</span>
   <span id="f000496">I discovered the explanation of the seeming.</span>
   <span id="f000497">I saw the mizzen topmast lurching across a faint radiance of cloud behind which was the moon.</span>
   <span id="f000498">The idea leaped in my brain.</span>
   <span id="f000499">I extended the line between the cloudy radiance and the mizzen-topmast and found that it must strike somewhere near the fore-rigging on the port side.</span>
   <span id="f000500">Even as I did this,</span>
   <span id="f000501">the radiance vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000502">The driving clouds of the breaking gale were alternately thickening and thinning before the face of the moon,</span>
   <span id="f000503">but never exposing the face of the moon.</span>
   <span id="f000504">And when the clouds were at their thinnest,</span>
   <span id="f000505">it was a very dim radiance that the moon was able to make.</span>
   <span id="f000506">I watched and waited.</span>
   <span id="f000507">The next time the clouds thinned I looked for’ard,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and there was the shadow of the topmast,</span>
   <span id="f000509">long and attenuated,</span>
   <span id="f000510">wavering and lurching on the deck and against the rigging.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000511">This was my first ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000512">Once again have I seen a ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000513">It proved to be a Newfoundland dog,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and I don’t know which of us was the more frightened,</span>
   <span id="f000515">for I hit that Newfoundland a full right-arm swing to the jaw.</span>
   <span id="f000516">Regarding the Bricklayer’s ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000517">I will say that I never mentioned it to a soul on board.</span>
   <span id="f000518">Also,</span>
   <span id="f000519">I will say that in all my life I never went through more torment and mental suffering than on that lonely night-watch on the <em>Sophie Sutherland</em>.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

