<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Phil Chenevert</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Black Cat</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Edgar Allan Poe</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">For the most wild,</span>
   <span id="f000008">yet most homely narrative which I am about to pen,</span>
   <span id="f000009">I neither expect nor solicit belief.</span>
   <span id="f000010">Mad indeed would I be to expect it,</span>
   <span id="f000011">in a case where my very senses reject their own evidence.</span>
   <span id="f000012">Yet,</span>
   <span id="f000013">mad am I not – and very surely do I not dream.</span>
   <span id="f000014">But to-morrow I die,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and to-day I would unburthen my soul.</span>
   <span id="f000016">My immediate purpose is to place before the world,</span>
   <span id="f000017">plainly,</span>
   <span id="f000018">succinctly,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and without comment,</span>
   <span id="f000020">a series of mere household events.</span>
   <span id="f000021">In their consequences,</span>
   <span id="f000022">these events have terrified – have tortured – have destroyed me.</span>
   <span id="f000023">Yet I will not attempt to expound them.</span>
   <span id="f000024">To me,</span>
   <span id="f000025">they have presented little but Horror – to many they will seem less terrible than <em>barroques</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000026">Hereafter,</span>
   <span id="f000027">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000028">some intellect may be found which will reduce my phantasm to the common-place – some intellect more calm,</span>
   <span id="f000029">more logical,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and far less excitable than my own,</span>
   <span id="f000031">which will perceive,</span>
   <span id="f000032">in the circumstances I detail with awe,</span>
   <span id="f000033">nothing more than an ordinary succession of very natural causes and effects.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">From my infancy I was noted for the docility and humanity of my disposition.</span>
   <span id="f000035">My tenderness of heart was even so conspicuous as to make me the jest of my companions.</span>
   <span id="f000036">I was especially fond of animals,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and was indulged by my parents with a great variety of pets.</span>
   <span id="f000038">With these I spent most of my time,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and never was so happy as when feeding and caressing them.</span>
   <span id="f000040">This peculiarity of character grew with my growth,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and in my manhood,</span>
   <span id="f000042">I derived from it one of my principal sources of pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000043">To those who have cherished an affection for a faithful and sagacious dog,</span>
   <span id="f000044">I need hardly be at the trouble of explaining the nature or the intensity of the gratification thus derivable.</span>
   <span id="f000045">There is something in the unselfish and self-sacrificing love of a brute,</span>
   <span id="f000046">which goes directly to the heart of him who has had frequent occasion to test the paltry friendship and gossamer fidelity of mere <em>Man</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">I married early,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and was happy to find in my wife a disposition not uncongenial with my own.</span>
   <span id="f000049">Observing my partiality for domestic pets,</span>
   <span id="f000050">she lost no opportunity of procuring those of the most agreeable kind.</span>
   <span id="f000051">We had birds,</span>
   <span id="f000052">gold-fish,</span>
   <span id="f000053">a fine dog,</span>
   <span id="f000054">rabbits,</span>
   <span id="f000055">a small monkey,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and <em>a cat</em>.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">This latter was a remarkably large and beautiful animal,</span>
   <span id="f000058">entirely black,</span>
   <span id="f000059">and sagacious to an astonishing degree.</span>
   <span id="f000060">In speaking of his intelligence,</span>
   <span id="f000061">my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000062">who at heart was not a little tinctured with superstition,</span>
   <span id="f000063">made frequent allusion to the ancient popular notion,</span>
   <span id="f000064">which regarded all black cats as witches in disguise.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Not that she was ever <em>serious</em> upon this point – and I mention the matter at all for no better reason than that it happens,</span>
   <span id="f000066">just now,</span>
   <span id="f000067">to be remembered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">Pluto – this was the cat’s name – was my favorite pet and playmate.</span>
   <span id="f000069">I alone fed him,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and he attended me wherever I went about the house.</span>
   <span id="f000071">It was even with difficulty that I could prevent him from following me through the streets.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Our friendship lasted,</span>
   <span id="f000073">in this manner,</span>
   <span id="f000074">for several years,</span>
   <span id="f000075">during which my general temperament and character – through the instrumentality of the Fiend Intemperance – had</span>
   <span id="f000076">(I blush to confess it)</span>
   <span id="f000077">experienced a radical alteration for the worse.</span>
   <span id="f000078">I grew,</span>
   <span id="f000079">day by day,</span>
   <span id="f000080">more moody,</span>
   <span id="f000081">more irritable,</span>
   <span id="f000082">more regardless of the feelings of others.</span>
   <span id="f000083">I suffered myself to use intemperate language to my wife.</span>
   <span id="f000084">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000085">I even offered her personal violence.</span>
   <span id="f000086">My pets,</span>
   <span id="f000087">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000088">were made to feel the change in my disposition.</span>
   <span id="f000089">I not only neglected,</span>
   <span id="f000090">but ill-used them.</span>
   <span id="f000091">For Pluto,</span>
   <span id="f000092">however,</span>
   <span id="f000093">I still retained sufficient regard to restrain me from maltreating him,</span>
   <span id="f000094">as I made no scruple of maltreating the rabbits,</span>
   <span id="f000095">the monkey,</span>
   <span id="f000096">or even the dog,</span>
   <span id="f000097">when by accident,</span>
   <span id="f000098">or through affection,</span>
   <span id="f000099">they came in my way.</span>
   <span id="f000100">But my disease grew upon me – for what disease is like Alcohol!</span>
   <span id="f000101">– and at length even Pluto,</span>
   <span id="f000102">who was now becoming old,</span>
   <span id="f000103">and consequently somewhat peevish – even Pluto began to experience the effects of my ill temper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000104">One night,</span>
   <span id="f000105">returning home,</span>
   <span id="f000106">much intoxicated,</span>
   <span id="f000107">from one of my haunts about town,</span>
   <span id="f000108">I fancied that the cat avoided my presence.</span>
   <span id="f000109">I seized him;</span>
   <span id="f000110">when,</span>
   <span id="f000111">in his fright at my violence,</span>
   <span id="f000112">he inflicted a slight wound upon my hand with his teeth.</span>
   <span id="f000113">The fury of a demon instantly possessed me.</span>
   <span id="f000114">I knew myself no longer.</span>
   <span id="f000115">My original soul seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000116">at once,</span>
   <span id="f000117">to take its flight from my body and a more than fiendish malevolence,</span>
   <span id="f000118">gin-nurtured,</span>
   <span id="f000119">thrilled every fibre of my frame.</span>
   <span id="f000120">I took from my waistcoat-pocket a pen-knife,</span>
   <span id="f000121">opened it,</span>
   <span id="f000122">grasped the poor beast by the throat,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and deliberately cut one of its eyes from the socket!</span>
   <span id="f000124">I blush,</span>
   <span id="f000125">I burn,</span>
   <span id="f000126">I shudder,</span>
   <span id="f000127">while I pen the damnable atrocity.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">When reason returned with the morning – when I had slept off the fumes of the night’s debauch – I experienced a sentiment half of horror,</span>
   <span id="f000129">half of remorse,</span>
   <span id="f000130">for the crime of which I had been guilty;</span>
   <span id="f000131">but it was,</span>
   <span id="f000132">at best,</span>
   <span id="f000133">a feeble and equivocal feeling,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and the soul remained untouched.</span>
   <span id="f000135">I again plunged into excess,</span>
   <span id="f000136">and soon drowned in wine all memory of the deed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">In the meantime the cat slowly recovered.</span>
   <span id="f000138">The socket of the lost eye presented,</span>
   <span id="f000139">it is true,</span>
   <span id="f000140">a frightful appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000141">but he no longer appeared to suffer any pain.</span>
   <span id="f000142">He went about the house as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000143">but,</span>
   <span id="f000144">as might be expected,</span>
   <span id="f000145">fled in extreme terror at my approach.</span>
   <span id="f000146">I had so much of my old heart left,</span>
   <span id="f000147">as to be at first grieved by this evident dislike on the part of a creature which had once so loved me.</span>
   <span id="f000148">But this feeling soon gave place to irritation.</span>
   <span id="f000149">And then came,</span>
   <span id="f000150">as if to my final and irrevocable overthrow,</span>
   <span id="f000151">the spirit of PERVERSENESS.</span>
   <span id="f000152">Of this spirit philosophy takes no account.</span>
   <span id="f000153">Yet I am not more sure that my soul lives,</span>
   <span id="f000154">than I am that perverseness is one of the primitive impulses of the human heart – one of the indivisible primary faculties,</span>
   <span id="f000155">or sentiments,</span>
   <span id="f000156">which give direction to the character of Man.</span>
   <span id="f000157">Who has not,</span>
   <span id="f000158">a hundred times,</span>
   <span id="f000159">found himself committing a vile or a silly action,</span>
   <span id="f000160">for no other reason than because he knows he should not?</span>
   <span id="f000161">Have we not a perpetual inclination,</span>
   <span id="f000162">in the teeth of our best judgment,</span>
   <span id="f000163">to violate that which is <em>Law</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000164">merely because we understand it to be such?</span>
   <span id="f000165">This spirit of perverseness,</span>
   <span id="f000166">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000167">came to my final overthrow.</span>
   <span id="f000168">It was this unfathomable longing of the soul <em>to vex itself</em> – to offer violence to its own nature – to do wrong for the wrong’s sake only – that urged me to continue and finally to consummate the injury I had inflicted upon the unoffending brute.</span>
   <span id="f000169">One morning,</span>
   <span id="f000170">in cool blood,</span>
   <span id="f000171">I slipped a noose about its neck and hung it to the limb of a tree;</span>
   <span id="f000172">– hung it with the tears streaming from my eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000173">and with the bitterest remorse at my heart;</span>
   <span id="f000174">– hung it <em>because</em> I knew that it had loved me,</span>
   <span id="f000175">and <em>because</em> I felt it had given me no reason of offence;</span>
   <span id="f000176">– hung it <em>because</em> I knew that in so doing I was committing a sin – a deadly sin that would so jeopardize my immortal soul as to place it – if such a thing wore possible – even beyond the reach of the infinite mercy of the Most Merciful and Most Terrible God.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">On the night of the day on which this cruel deed was done,</span>
   <span id="f000178">I was aroused from sleep by the cry of fire.</span>
   <span id="f000179">The curtains of my bed were in flames.</span>
   <span id="f000180">The whole house was blazing.</span>
   <span id="f000181">It was with great difficulty that my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000182">a servant,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and myself,</span>
   <span id="f000184">made our escape from the conflagration.</span>
   <span id="f000185">The destruction was complete.</span>
   <span id="f000186">My entire worldly wealth was swallowed up,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and I resigned myself thenceforward to despair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">I am above the weakness of seeking to establish a sequence of cause and effect,</span>
   <span id="f000189">between the disaster and the atrocity.</span>
   <span id="f000190">But I am detailing a chain of facts – and wish not to leave even a possible link imperfect.</span>
   <span id="f000191">On the day succeeding the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000192">I visited the ruins.</span>
   <span id="f000193">The walls,</span>
   <span id="f000194">with one exception,</span>
   <span id="f000195">had fallen in.</span>
   <span id="f000196">This exception was found in a compartment wall,</span>
   <span id="f000197">not very thick,</span>
   <span id="f000198">which stood about the middle of the house,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and against which had rested the head of my bed.</span>
   <span id="f000200">The plastering had here,</span>
   <span id="f000201">in great measure,</span>
   <span id="f000202">resisted the action of the fire – a fact which I attributed to its having been recently spread.</span>
   <span id="f000203">About this wall a dense crowd were collected,</span>
   <span id="f000204">and many persons seemed to be examining a particular portion of it with very minute and eager attention.</span>
   <span id="f000205">The words “strange!” “singular!” and other similar expressions,</span>
   <span id="f000206">excited my curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000207">I approached and saw,</span>
   <span id="f000208">as if graven in <em>bas relief</em> upon the white surface,</span>
   <span id="f000209">the figure of a gigantic <em>cat</em>.</span>
   <span id="f000210">The impression was given with an accuracy truly marvellous.</span>
   <span id="f000211">There was a rope about the animal’s neck.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">When I first beheld this apparition – for I could scarcely regard it as less – my wonder and my terror were extreme.</span>
   <span id="f000213">But at length reflection came to my aid.</span>
   <span id="f000214">The cat,</span>
   <span id="f000215">I remembered,</span>
   <span id="f000216">had been hung in a garden adjacent to the house.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Upon the alarm of fire,</span>
   <span id="f000218">this garden had been immediately filled by the crowd – by some one of whom the animal must have been cut from the tree and thrown,</span>
   <span id="f000219">through an open window,</span>
   <span id="f000220">into my chamber.</span>
   <span id="f000221">This had probably been done with the view of arousing me from sleep.</span>
   <span id="f000222">The falling of other walls had compressed the victim of my cruelty into the substance of the freshly-spread plaster;</span>
   <span id="f000223">the lime of which,</span>
   <span id="f000224">with the flames,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and the <em>ammonia</em> from the carcass,</span>
   <span id="f000226">had then accomplished the portraiture as I saw it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">Although I thus readily accounted to my reason,</span>
   <span id="f000228">if not altogether to my conscience,</span>
   <span id="f000229">for the startling fact just detailed,</span>
   <span id="f000230">it did not the less fail to make a deep impression upon my fancy.</span>
   <span id="f000231">For months I could not rid myself of the phantasm of the cat;</span>
   <span id="f000232">and,</span>
   <span id="f000233">during this period,</span>
   <span id="f000234">there came back into my spirit a half-sentiment that seemed,</span>
   <span id="f000235">but was not,</span>
   <span id="f000236">remorse.</span>
   <span id="f000237">I went so far as to regret the loss of the animal,</span>
   <span id="f000238">and to look about me,</span>
   <span id="f000239">among the vile haunts which I now habitually frequented,</span>
   <span id="f000240">for another pet of the same species,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and of somewhat similar appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000242">with which to supply its place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">One night as I sat,</span>
   <span id="f000244">half stupified,</span>
   <span id="f000245">in a den of more than infamy,</span>
   <span id="f000246">my attention was suddenly drawn to some black object,</span>
   <span id="f000247">reposing upon the head of one of the immense hogsheads of Gin,</span>
   <span id="f000248">or of Rum,</span>
   <span id="f000249">which constituted the chief furniture of the apartment.</span>
   <span id="f000250">I had been looking steadily at the top of this hogshead for some minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and what now caused me surprise was the fact that I had not sooner perceived the object thereupon.</span>
   <span id="f000252">I approached it,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and touched it with my hand.</span>
   <span id="f000254">It was a black cat – a very large one – fully as large as Pluto,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and closely resembling him in every respect but one.</span>
   <span id="f000256">Pluto had not a white hair upon any portion of his body;</span>
   <span id="f000257">but this cat had a large,</span>
   <span id="f000258">although indefinite splotch of white,</span>
   <span id="f000259">covering nearly the whole region of the breast.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Upon my touching him,</span>
   <span id="f000261">he immediately arose,</span>
   <span id="f000262">purred loudly,</span>
   <span id="f000263">rubbed against my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and appeared delighted with my notice.</span>
   <span id="f000265">This,</span>
   <span id="f000266">then,</span>
   <span id="f000267">was the very creature of which I was in search.</span>
   <span id="f000268">I at once offered to purchase it of the landlord;</span>
   <span id="f000269">but this person made no claim to it – knew nothing of it – had never seen it before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">I continued my caresses,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and,</span>
   <span id="f000272">when I prepared to go home,</span>
   <span id="f000273">the animal evinced a disposition to accompany me.</span>
   <span id="f000274">I permitted it to do so;</span>
   <span id="f000275">occasionally stooping and patting it as I proceeded.</span>
   <span id="f000276">When it reached the house it domesticated itself at once,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and became immediately a great favorite with my wife.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">For my own part,</span>
   <span id="f000279">I soon found a dislike to it arising within me.</span>
   <span id="f000280">This was just the reverse of what I had anticipated;</span>
   <span id="f000281">but – I know not how or why it was – its evident fondness for myself rather disgusted and annoyed.</span>
   <span id="f000282">By slow degrees,</span>
   <span id="f000283">these feelings of disgust and annoyance rose into the bitterness of hatred.</span>
   <span id="f000284">I avoided the creature;</span>
   <span id="f000285">a certain sense of shame,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and the remembrance of my former deed of cruelty,</span>
   <span id="f000287">preventing me from physically abusing it.</span>
   <span id="f000288">I did not,</span>
   <span id="f000289">for some weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000290">strike,</span>
   <span id="f000291">or otherwise violently ill use it;</span>
   <span id="f000292">but gradually – very gradually – I came to look upon it with unutterable loathing,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and to flee silently from its odious presence,</span>
   <span id="f000294">as from the breath of a pestilence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">What added,</span>
   <span id="f000296">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000297">to my hatred of the beast,</span>
   <span id="f000298">was the discovery,</span>
   <span id="f000299">on the morning after I brought it home,</span>
   <span id="f000300">that,</span>
   <span id="f000301">like Pluto,</span>
   <span id="f000302">it also had been deprived of one of its eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000303">This circumstance,</span>
   <span id="f000304">however,</span>
   <span id="f000305">only endeared it to my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000306">who,</span>
   <span id="f000307">as I have already said,</span>
   <span id="f000308">possessed,</span>
   <span id="f000309">in a high degree,</span>
   <span id="f000310">that humanity of feeling which had once been my distinguishing trait,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and the source of many of my simplest and purest pleasures.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">With my aversion to this cat,</span>
   <span id="f000313">however,</span>
   <span id="f000314">its partiality for myself seemed to increase.</span>
   <span id="f000315">It followed my footsteps with a pertinacity which it would be difficult to make the reader comprehend.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Whenever I sat,</span>
   <span id="f000317">it would crouch beneath my chair,</span>
   <span id="f000318">or spring upon my knees,</span>
   <span id="f000319">covering me with its loathsome caresses.</span>
   <span id="f000320">If I arose to walk it would get between my feet and thus nearly throw me down,</span>
   <span id="f000321">or,</span>
   <span id="f000322">fastening its long and sharp claws in my dress,</span>
   <span id="f000323">clamber,</span>
   <span id="f000324">in this manner,</span>
   <span id="f000325">to my breast.</span>
   <span id="f000326">At such times,</span>
   <span id="f000327">although I longed to destroy it with a blow,</span>
   <span id="f000328">I was yet withheld from so doing,</span>
   <span id="f000329">partly by a memory of my former crime,</span>
   <span id="f000330">but chiefly – let me confess it at once – by absolute dread of the beast.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">This dread was not exactly a dread of physical evil – and yet I should be at a loss how otherwise to define it.</span>
   <span id="f000332">I am almost ashamed to own – yes,</span>
   <span id="f000333">even in this felon’s cell,</span>
   <span id="f000334">I am almost ashamed to own – that the terror and horror with which the animal inspired me,</span>
   <span id="f000335">had been heightened by one of the merest chimaeras it would be possible to conceive.</span>
   <span id="f000336">My wife had called my attention,</span>
   <span id="f000337">more than once,</span>
   <span id="f000338">to the character of the mark of white hair,</span>
   <span id="f000339">of which I have spoken,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and which constituted the sole visible difference between the strange beast and the one I had destroyed.</span>
   <span id="f000341">The reader will remember that this mark,</span>
   <span id="f000342">although large,</span>
   <span id="f000343">had been originally very indefinite;</span>
   <span id="f000344">but,</span>
   <span id="f000345">by slow degrees – degrees nearly imperceptible,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and which for a long time my Reason struggled to reject as fanciful – it had,</span>
   <span id="f000347">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000348">assumed a rigorous distinctness of outline.</span>
   <span id="f000349">It was now the representation of an object that I shudder to name – and for this,</span>
   <span id="f000350">above all,</span>
   <span id="f000351">I loathed,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and dreaded,</span>
   <span id="f000353">and would have rid myself of the monster <em>had I dared</em> – it was now,</span>
   <span id="f000354">I say,</span>
   <span id="f000355">the image of a hideous – of a ghastly thing – of the GALLOWS!</span>
   <span id="f000356">– oh,</span>
   <span id="f000357">mournful and terrible engine of Horror and of Crime – of Agony and of Death!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">And now was I indeed wretched beyond the wretchedness of mere Humanity.</span>
   <span id="f000359">And <em>a brute beast</em> – whose fellow I had contemptuously destroyed – <em>a brute beast</em> to work out for <em>me</em> – for me a man,</span>
   <span id="f000360">fashioned in the image of the High God – so much of insufferable wo!</span>
   <span id="f000361">Alas!</span>
   <span id="f000362">neither by day nor by night knew I the blessing of Rest any more!</span>
   <span id="f000363">During the former the creature left me no moment alone;</span>
   <span id="f000364">and,</span>
   <span id="f000365">in the latter,</span>
   <span id="f000366">I started,</span>
   <span id="f000367">hourly,</span>
   <span id="f000368">from dreams of unutterable fear,</span>
   <span id="f000369">to find the hot breath of <em>the thing</em> upon my face,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and its vast weight – an incarnate Night-Mare that I had no power to shake off – incumbent eternally upon my <em>heart!</em></span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">Beneath the pressure of torments such as these,</span>
   <span id="f000372">the feeble remnant of the good within me succumbed.</span>
   <span id="f000373">Evil thoughts became my sole intimates – the darkest and most evil of thoughts.</span>
   <span id="f000374">The moodiness of my usual temper increased to hatred of all things and of all mankind;</span>
   <span id="f000375">while,</span>
   <span id="f000376">from the sudden,</span>
   <span id="f000377">frequent,</span>
   <span id="f000378">and ungovernable outbursts of a fury to which I now blindly abandoned myself,</span>
   <span id="f000379">my uncomplaining wife,</span>
   <span id="f000380">alas!</span>
   <span id="f000381">was the most usual and the most patient of sufferers.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000382">One day she accompanied me,</span>
   <span id="f000383">upon some household errand,</span>
   <span id="f000384">into the cellar of the old building which our poverty compelled us to inhabit.</span>
   <span id="f000385">The cat followed me down the steep stairs,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and,</span>
   <span id="f000387">nearly throwing me headlong,</span>
   <span id="f000388">exasperated me to madness.</span>
   <span id="f000389">Uplifting an axe,</span>
   <span id="f000390">and forgetting,</span>
   <span id="f000391">in my wrath,</span>
   <span id="f000392">the childish dread which had hitherto stayed my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000393">I aimed a blow at the animal which,</span>
   <span id="f000394">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000395">would have proved instantly fatal had it descended as I wished.</span>
   <span id="f000396">But this blow was arrested by the hand of my wife.</span>
   <span id="f000397">Goaded,</span>
   <span id="f000398">by the interference,</span>
   <span id="f000399">into a rage more than demoniacal,</span>
   <span id="f000400">I withdrew my arm from her grasp and buried the axe in her brain.</span>
   <span id="f000401">She fell dead upon the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000402">without a groan.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000403">This hideous murder accomplished,</span>
   <span id="f000404">I set myself forthwith,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and with entire deliberation,</span>
   <span id="f000406">to the task of concealing the body.</span>
   <span id="f000407">I knew that I could not remove it from the house,</span>
   <span id="f000408">either by day or by night,</span>
   <span id="f000409">without the risk of being observed by the neighbors.</span>
   <span id="f000410">Many projects entered my mind.</span>
   <span id="f000411">At one period I thought of cutting the corpse into minute fragments,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and destroying them by fire.</span>
   <span id="f000413">At another,</span>
   <span id="f000414">I resolved to dig a grave for it in the floor of the cellar.</span>
   <span id="f000415">Again,</span>
   <span id="f000416">I deliberated about casting it in the well in the yard – about packing it in a box,</span>
   <span id="f000417">as if merchandize,</span>
   <span id="f000418">with the usual arrangements,</span>
   <span id="f000419">and so getting a porter to take it from the house.</span>
   <span id="f000420">Finally I hit upon what I considered a far better expedient than either of these.</span>
   <span id="f000421">I determined to wall it up in the cellar – as the monks of the middle ages are recorded to have walled up their victims.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">For a purpose such as this the cellar was well adapted.</span>
   <span id="f000423">Its walls were loosely constructed,</span>
   <span id="f000424">and had lately been plastered throughout with a rough plaster,</span>
   <span id="f000425">which the dampness of the atmosphere had prevented from hardening.</span>
   <span id="f000426">Moreover,</span>
   <span id="f000427">in one of the walls was a projection,</span>
   <span id="f000428">caused by a false chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000429">or fireplace,</span>
   <span id="f000430">that had been filled up,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and made to resemble the red of the cellar.</span>
   <span id="f000432">I made no doubt that I could readily displace the bricks at this point,</span>
   <span id="f000433">insert the corpse,</span>
   <span id="f000434">and wall the whole up as before,</span>
   <span id="f000435">so that no eye could detect any thing suspicious.</span>
   <span id="f000436">And in this calculation I was not deceived.</span>
   <span id="f000437">By means of a crow-bar I easily dislodged the bricks,</span>
   <span id="f000438">and,</span>
   <span id="f000439">having carefully deposited the body against the inner wall,</span>
   <span id="f000440">I propped it in that position,</span>
   <span id="f000441">while,</span>
   <span id="f000442">with little trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000443">I re-laid the whole structure as it originally stood.</span>
   <span id="f000444">Having procured mortar,</span>
   <span id="f000445">sand,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and hair,</span>
   <span id="f000447">with every possible precaution,</span>
   <span id="f000448">I prepared a plaster which could not be distinguished from the old,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and with this I very carefully went over the new brickwork.</span>
   <span id="f000450">When I had finished,</span>
   <span id="f000451">I felt satisfied that all was right.</span>
   <span id="f000452">The wall did not present the slightest appearance of having been disturbed.</span>
   <span id="f000453">The rubbish on the floor was picked up with the minutest care.</span>
   <span id="f000454">I looked around triumphantly,</span>
   <span id="f000455">and said to myself – “Here at least,</span>
   <span id="f000456">then,</span>
   <span id="f000457">my labor has not been in vain.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">My next step was to look for the beast which had been the cause of so much wretchedness;</span>
   <span id="f000459">for I had,</span>
   <span id="f000460">at length,</span>
   <span id="f000461">firmly resolved to put it to death.</span>
   <span id="f000462">Had I been able to meet with it,</span>
   <span id="f000463">at the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000464">there could have been no doubt of its fate;</span>
   <span id="f000465">but it appeared that the crafty animal had been alarmed at the violence of my previous anger,</span>
   <span id="f000466">and forebore to present itself in my present mood.</span>
   <span id="f000467">It is impossible to describe,</span>
   <span id="f000468">or to imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000469">the deep,</span>
   <span id="f000470">the blissful sense of relief which the absence of the detested creature occasioned in my bosom.</span>
   <span id="f000471">It did not make its appearance during the night – and thus for one night at least,</span>
   <span id="f000472">since its introduction into the house,</span>
   <span id="f000473">I soundly and tranquilly slept;</span>
   <span id="f000474">aye,</span>
   <span id="f000475">slept even with the burden of murder upon my soul!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000476">The second and the third day passed,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and still my tormentor came not.</span>
   <span id="f000478">Once again I breathed as a freeman.</span>
   <span id="f000479">The monster,</span>
   <span id="f000480">in terror,</span>
   <span id="f000481">had fled the premises forever!</span>
   <span id="f000482">I should behold it no more!</span>
   <span id="f000483">My happiness was supreme!</span>
   <span id="f000484">The guilt of my dark deed disturbed me but little.</span>
   <span id="f000485">Some few inquiries had been made,</span>
   <span id="f000486">but these had been readily answered.</span>
   <span id="f000487">Even a search had been instituted – but of course nothing was to be discovered.</span>
   <span id="f000488">I looked upon my future felicity as secured.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">Upon the fourth day of the assassination,</span>
   <span id="f000490">a party of the police came,</span>
   <span id="f000491">very unexpectedly,</span>
   <span id="f000492">into the house,</span>
   <span id="f000493">and proceeded again to make rigorous investigation of the premises.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Secure,</span>
   <span id="f000495">however,</span>
   <span id="f000496">in the inscrutability of my place of concealment,</span>
   <span id="f000497">I felt no embarrassment whatever.</span>
   <span id="f000498">The officers bade me accompany them in their search.</span>
   <span id="f000499">They left no nook or corner unexplored.</span>
   <span id="f000500">At length,</span>
   <span id="f000501">for the third or fourth time,</span>
   <span id="f000502">they descended into the cellar.</span>
   <span id="f000503">I quivered not in a muscle.</span>
   <span id="f000504">My heart beat calmly as that of one who slumbers in innocence.</span>
   <span id="f000505">I walked the cellar from end to end.</span>
   <span id="f000506">I folded my arms upon my bosom,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and roamed easily to and fro.</span>
   <span id="f000508">The police were thoroughly satisfied and prepared to depart.</span>
   <span id="f000509">The glee at my heart was too strong to be restrained.</span>
   <span id="f000510">I burned to say if but one word,</span>
   <span id="f000511">by way of triumph,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and to render doubly sure their assurance of my guiltlessness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000513">“Gentlemen,” I said at last,</span>
   <span id="f000514">as the party ascended the steps,</span>
   <span id="f000515">“I delight to have allayed your suspicions.</span>
   <span id="f000516">I wish you all health,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and a little more courtesy.</span>
   <span id="f000518">By the bye,</span>
   <span id="f000519">gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000520">this – this is a very well constructed house.” [In the rabid desire to say something easily,</span>
   <span id="f000521">I scarcely knew what I uttered at all.] – “I may say an <em>excellently</em> well constructed house.</span>
   <span id="f000522">These walls – are you going,</span>
   <span id="f000523">gentlemen?</span>
   <span id="f000524">– these walls are solidly put together;” and here,</span>
   <span id="f000525">through the mere phrenzy of bravado,</span>
   <span id="f000526">I rapped heavily,</span>
   <span id="f000527">with a cane which I held in my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000528">upon that very portion of the brick-work behind which stood the corpse of the wife of my bosom.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000529">But may God shield and deliver me from the fangs of the Arch-Fiend!</span>
   <span id="f000530">No sooner had the reverberation of my blows sunk into silence,</span>
   <span id="f000531">than I was answered by a voice from within the tomb!</span>
   <span id="f000532">– by a cry,</span>
   <span id="f000533">at first muffled and broken,</span>
   <span id="f000534">like the sobbing of a child,</span>
   <span id="f000535">and then quickly swelling into one long,</span>
   <span id="f000536">loud,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and continuous scream,</span>
   <span id="f000538">utterly anomalous and inhuman – a howl – a wailing shriek,</span>
   <span id="f000539">half of horror and half of triumph,</span>
   <span id="f000540">such as might have arisen only out of hell,</span>
   <span id="f000541">conjointly from the throats of the dammed in their agony and of the demons that exult in the damnation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000542">Of my own thoughts it is folly to speak.</span>
   <span id="f000543">Swooning,</span>
   <span id="f000544">I staggered to the opposite wall.</span>
   <span id="f000545">For one instant the party upon the stairs remained motionless,</span>
   <span id="f000546">through extremity of terror and of awe.</span>
   <span id="f000547">In the next,</span>
   <span id="f000548">a dozen stout arms were toiling at the wall.</span>
   <span id="f000549">It fell bodily.</span>
   <span id="f000550">The corpse,</span>
   <span id="f000551">already greatly decayed and clotted with gore,</span>
   <span id="f000552">stood erect before the eyes of the spectators.</span>
   <span id="f000553">Upon its head,</span>
   <span id="f000554">with red extended mouth and solitary eye of fire,</span>
   <span id="f000555">sat the hideous beast whose craft had seduced me into murder,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and whose informing voice had consigned me to the hangman.</span>
   <span id="f000557">I had walled the monster up within the tomb!</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

