<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Alex Lau</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Birthday of the Infanta</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Oscar Wilde</span></p>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000007">It was the birthday of the Infanta.</span>
   <span id="f000008">She was just twelve years of age,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and the sun was shining brightly in the gardens of the palace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">Although she was a real Princess and the Infanta of Spain,</span>
   <span id="f000011">she had only one birthday every year,</span>
   <span id="f000012">just like the children of quite poor people,</span>
   <span id="f000013">so it was naturally a matter of great importance to the whole country that she should have a really fine day for the occasion.</span>
   <span id="f000014">And a really fine day it certainly was.</span>
   <span id="f000015">The tall striped tulips stood straight up upon their stalks,</span>
   <span id="f000016">like long rows of soldiers,</span>
   <span id="f000017">and looked defiantly across the grass at the roses,</span>
   <span id="f000018">and said:</span>
   <span id="f000019">’We are quite as splendid as you are now.’ The purple butterflies fluttered about with gold dust on their wings,</span>
   <span id="f000020">visiting each flower in turn;</span>
   <span id="f000021">the little lizards crept out of the crevices of the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and lay basking in the white glare;</span>
   <span id="f000023">and the pomegranates split and cracked with the heat,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and showed their bleeding red hearts.</span>
   <span id="f000025">Even the pale yellow lemons,</span>
   <span id="f000026">that hung in such profusion from the mouldering trellis and along the dim arcades,</span>
   <span id="f000027">seemed to have caught a richer colour from the wonderful sunlight,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and the magnolia trees opened their great globe-like blossoms of folded ivory,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and filled the air with a sweet heavy perfume.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">The little Princess herself walked up and down the terrace with her companions,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and played at hide and seek round the stone vases and the old moss-grown statues.</span>
   <span id="f000032">On ordinary days she was only allowed to play with children of her own rank,</span>
   <span id="f000033">so she had always to play alone,</span>
   <span id="f000034">but her birthday was an exception,</span>
   <span id="f000035">and the King had given orders that she was to invite any of her young friends whom she liked to come and amuse themselves with her.</span>
   <span id="f000036">There was a stately grace about these slim Spanish children as they glided about,</span>
   <span id="f000037">the boys with their large-plumed hats and short fluttering cloaks,</span>
   <span id="f000038">the girls holding up the trains of their long brocaded gowns,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and shielding the sun from their eyes with huge fans of black and silver.</span>
   <span id="f000040">But the Infanta was the most graceful of all,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and the most tastefully attired,</span>
   <span id="f000042">after the somewhat cumbrous fashion of the day.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Her robe was of grey satin,</span>
   <span id="f000044">the skirt and the wide puffed sleeves heavily embroidered with silver,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and the stiff corset studded with rows of fine pearls.</span>
   <span id="f000046">Two tiny slippers with big pink rosettes peeped out beneath her dress as she walked.</span>
   <span id="f000047">Pink and pearl was her great gauze fan,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and in her hair,</span>
   <span id="f000049">which like an aureole of faded gold stood out stiffly round her pale little face,</span>
   <span id="f000050">she had a beautiful white rose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">From a window in the palace the sad melancholy King watched them.</span>
   <span id="f000052">Behind him stood his brother,</span>
   <span id="f000053">Don Pedro of Aragon,</span>
   <span id="f000054">whom he hated,</span>
   <span id="f000055">and his confessor,</span>
   <span id="f000056">the Grand Inquisitor of Granada,</span>
   <span id="f000057">sat by his side.</span>
   <span id="f000058">Sadder even than usual was the King,</span>
   <span id="f000059">for as he looked at the Infanta bowing with childish gravity to the assembling counters,</span>
   <span id="f000060">or laughing behind her fan at the grim Duchess of Albuquerque who always accompanied her,</span>
   <span id="f000061">he thought of the young Queen,</span>
   <span id="f000062">her mother,</span>
   <span id="f000063">who but a short time before – so it seemed to him – had come from the gay country of France,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and had withered away in the sombre splendour of the Spanish court,</span>
   <span id="f000065">dying just six months after the birth of her child,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and before she had seen the almonds blossom twice in the orchard,</span>
   <span id="f000067">or plucked the second year’s fruit from the old gnarled fig-tree that stood in the centre of the now grass- grown courtyard.</span>
   <span id="f000068">So great had been his love for her that he had not suffered even the grave to hide her from him.</span>
   <span id="f000069">She had been embalmed by a Moorish physician,</span>
   <span id="f000070">who in return for this service had been granted his life,</span>
   <span id="f000071">which for heresy and suspicion of magical practices had been already forfeited,</span>
   <span id="f000072">men said,</span>
   <span id="f000073">to the Holy Office,</span>
   <span id="f000074">and her body was still lying on its tapestried bier in the black marble chapel of the Palace,</span>
   <span id="f000075">just as the monks had borne her in on that windy March day nearly twelve years before.</span>
   <span id="f000076">Once every month the King,</span>
   <span id="f000077">wrapped in a dark cloak and with a muffled lantern in his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000078">went in and knelt by her side calling out,</span>
   <span id="f000079">’Mi reina!</span>
   <span id="f000080">Mi reina!’ and sometimes breaking through the formal etiquette that in Spain governs every separate action of life,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and sets limits even to the sorrow of a King,</span>
   <span id="f000082">he would clutch at the pale jewelled hands in a wild agony of grief,</span>
   <span id="f000083">and try to wake by his mad kisses the cold painted face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000084">To-day he seemed to see her again,</span>
   <span id="f000085">as he had seen her first at the Castle of Fontainebleau,</span>
   <span id="f000086">when he was but fifteen years of age,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and she still younger.</span>
   <span id="f000088">They had been formally betrothed on that occasion by the Papal Nuncio in the presence of the French King and all the Court,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and he had returned to the Escurial bearing with him a little ringlet of yellow hair,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and the memory of two childish lips bending down to kiss his hand as he stepped into his carriage.</span>
   <span id="f000091">Later on had followed the marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000092">hastily performed at Burgos,</span>
   <span id="f000093">a small town on the frontier between the two countries,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and the grand public entry into Madrid with the customary celebration of high mass at the Church of La Atocha,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and a more than usually solemn auto-da-fe,</span>
   <span id="f000096">in which nearly three hundred heretics,</span>
   <span id="f000097">amongst whom were many Englishmen,</span>
   <span id="f000098">had been delivered over to the secular arm to be burned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">Certainly he had loved her madly,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and to the ruin,</span>
   <span id="f000101">many thought,</span>
   <span id="f000102">of his country,</span>
   <span id="f000103">then at war with England for the possession of the empire of the New World.</span>
   <span id="f000104">He had hardly ever permitted her to be out of his sight;</span>
   <span id="f000105">for her,</span>
   <span id="f000106">he had forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000107">or seemed to have forgotten,</span>
   <span id="f000108">all grave affairs of State;</span>
   <span id="f000109">and,</span>
   <span id="f000110">with that terrible blindness that passion brings upon its servants,</span>
   <span id="f000111">he had failed to notice that the elaborate ceremonies by which he sought to please her did but aggravate the strange malady from which she suffered.</span>
   <span id="f000112">When she died he was,</span>
   <span id="f000113">for a time,</span>
   <span id="f000114">like one bereft of reason.</span>
   <span id="f000115">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000116">there is no doubt but that he would have formally abdicated and retired to the great Trappist monastery at Granada,</span>
   <span id="f000117">of which he was already titular Prior,</span>
   <span id="f000118">had he not been afraid to leave the little Infanta at the mercy of his brother,</span>
   <span id="f000119">whose cruelty,</span>
   <span id="f000120">even in Spain,</span>
   <span id="f000121">was notorious,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and who was suspected by many of having caused the Queen’s death by means of a pair of poisoned gloves that he had presented to her on the occasion of her visiting his castle in Aragon.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Even after the expiration of the three years of public mourning that he had ordained throughout his whole dominions by royal edict,</span>
   <span id="f000124">he would never suffer his ministers to speak about any new alliance,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and when the Emperor himself sent to him,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and offered him the hand of the lovely Archduchess of Bohemia,</span>
   <span id="f000127">his niece,</span>
   <span id="f000128">in marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000129">he bade the ambassadors tell their master that the King of Spain was already wedded to Sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and that though she was but a barren bride he loved her better than Beauty;</span>
   <span id="f000131">an answer that cost his crown the rich provinces of the Netherlands,</span>
   <span id="f000132">which soon after,</span>
   <span id="f000133">at the Emperor’s instigation,</span>
   <span id="f000134">revolted against him under the leadership of some fanatics of the Reformed Church.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">His whole married life,</span>
   <span id="f000136">with its fierce,</span>
   <span id="f000137">fiery-coloured joys and the terrible agony of its sudden ending,</span>
   <span id="f000138">seemed to come back to him to-day as he watched the Infanta playing on the terrace.</span>
   <span id="f000139">She had all the Queen’s pretty petulance of manner,</span>
   <span id="f000140">the same wilful way of tossing her head,</span>
   <span id="f000141">the same proud curved beautiful mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000142">the same wonderful smile – vrai sourire de France indeed – as she glanced up now and then at the window,</span>
   <span id="f000143">or stretched out her little hand for the stately Spanish gentlemen to kiss.</span>
   <span id="f000144">But the shrill laughter of the children grated on his ears,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and the bright pitiless sunlight mocked his sorrow,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and a dull odour of strange spices,</span>
   <span id="f000147">spices such as embalmers use,</span>
   <span id="f000148">seemed to taint – or was it fancy?</span>
   <span id="f000149">– the clear morning air.</span>
   <span id="f000150">He buried his face in his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and when the Infanta looked up again the curtains had been drawn,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and the King had retired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">She made a little moue of disappointment,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and shrugged her shoulders.</span>
   <span id="f000155">Surely he might have stayed with her on her birthday.</span>
   <span id="f000156">What did the stupid State-affairs matter?</span>
   <span id="f000157">Or had he gone to that gloomy chapel,</span>
   <span id="f000158">where the candles were always burning,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and where she was never allowed to enter?</span>
   <span id="f000160">How silly of him,</span>
   <span id="f000161">when the sun was shining so brightly,</span>
   <span id="f000162">and everybody was so happy!</span>
   <span id="f000163">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000164">he would miss the sham bull-fight for which the trumpet was already sounding,</span>
   <span id="f000165">to say nothing of the puppet-show and the other wonderful things.</span>
   <span id="f000166">Her uncle and the Grand Inquisitor were much more sensible.</span>
   <span id="f000167">They had come out on the terrace,</span>
   <span id="f000168">and paid her nice compliments.</span>
   <span id="f000169">So she tossed her pretty head,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and taking Don Pedro by the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000171">she walked slowly down the steps towards a long pavilion of purple silk that had been erected at the end of the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000172">the other children following in strict order of precedence,</span>
   <span id="f000173">those who had the longest names going first.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000174">A procession of noble boys,</span>
   <span id="f000175">fantastically dressed as toreadors,</span>
   <span id="f000176">came out to meet her,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and the young Count of Tierra-Nueva,</span>
   <span id="f000178">a wonderfully handsome lad of about fourteen years of age,</span>
   <span id="f000179">uncovering his head with all the grace of a born hidalgo and grandee of Spain,</span>
   <span id="f000180">led her solemnly in to a little gilt and ivory chair that was placed on a raised dais above the arena.</span>
   <span id="f000181">The children grouped themselves all round,</span>
   <span id="f000182">fluttering their big fans and whispering to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and Don Pedro and the Grand Inquisitor stood laughing at the entrance.</span>
   <span id="f000184">Even the Duchess – the Camerera-Mayor as she was called – a thin,</span>
   <span id="f000185">hard-featured woman with a yellow ruff,</span>
   <span id="f000186">did not look quite so bad-tempered as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and something like a chill smile flitted across her wrinkled face and twitched her thin bloodless lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">It certainly was a marvellous bull-fight,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and much nicer,</span>
   <span id="f000190">the Infanta thought,</span>
   <span id="f000191">than the real bull-fight that she had been brought to see at Seville,</span>
   <span id="f000192">on the occasion of the visit of the Duke of Parma to her father.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Some of the boys pranced about on richly- caparisoned hobby-horses brandishing long javelins with gay streamers of bright ribands attached to them;</span>
   <span id="f000194">others went on foot waving their scarlet cloaks before the bull,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and vaulting lightly over the barrier when he charged them;</span>
   <span id="f000196">and as for the bull himself,</span>
   <span id="f000197">he was just like a live bull,</span>
   <span id="f000198">though he was only made of wicker- work and stretched hide,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and sometimes insisted on running round the arena on his hind legs,</span>
   <span id="f000200">which no live bull ever dreams of doing.</span>
   <span id="f000201">He made a splendid fight of it too,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and the children got so excited that they stood up upon the benches,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and waved their lace handkerchiefs and cried out:</span>
   <span id="f000204">Bravo toro!</span>
   <span id="f000205">Bravo toro!</span>
   <span id="f000206">just as sensibly as if they had been grown-up people.</span>
   <span id="f000207">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000208">however,</span>
   <span id="f000209">after a prolonged combat,</span>
   <span id="f000210">during which several of the hobby-horses were gored through and through,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and,</span>
   <span id="f000212">their riders dismounted,</span>
   <span id="f000213">the young Count of Tierra-Nueva brought the bull to his knees,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and having obtained permission from the Infanta to give the coup de grace,</span>
   <span id="f000215">he plunged his wooden sword into the neck of the animal with such violence that the head came right off,</span>
   <span id="f000216">and disclosed the laughing face of little Monsieur de Lorraine,</span>
   <span id="f000217">the son of the French Ambassador at Madrid.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000218">The arena was then cleared amidst much applause,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and the dead hobbyhorses dragged solemnly away by two Moorish pages in yellow and black liveries,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and after a short interlude,</span>
   <span id="f000221">during which a French posture-master performed upon the tightrope,</span>
   <span id="f000222">some Italian puppets appeared in the semi-classical tragedy of Sophonisba on the stage of a small theatre that had been built up for the purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000223">They acted so well,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and their gestures were so extremely natural,</span>
   <span id="f000225">that at the close of the play the eyes of the Infanta were quite dim with tears.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Indeed some of the children really cried,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and had to be comforted with sweetmeats,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and the Grand Inquisitor himself was so affected that he could not help saying to Don Pedro that it seemed to him intolerable that things made simply out of wood and coloured wax,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and worked mechanically by wires,</span>
   <span id="f000230">should be so unhappy and meet with such terrible misfortunes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000231">An African juggler followed,</span>
   <span id="f000232">who brought in a large flat basket covered with a red cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and having placed it in the centre of the arena,</span>
   <span id="f000234">he took from his turban a curious reed pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and blew through it.</span>
   <span id="f000236">In a few moments the cloth began to move,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and as the pipe grew shriller and shriller two green and gold snakes put out their strange wedge-shaped heads and rose slowly up,</span>
   <span id="f000238">swaying to and fro with the music as a plant sways in the water.</span>
   <span id="f000239">The children,</span>
   <span id="f000240">however,</span>
   <span id="f000241">were rather frightened at their spotted hoods and quick darting tongues,</span>
   <span id="f000242">and were much more pleased when the juggler made a tiny orange-tree grow out of the sand and bear pretty white blossoms and clusters of real fruit;</span>
   <span id="f000243">and when he took the fan of the little daughter of the Marquess de Las-Torres,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and changed it into a blue bird that flew all round the pavilion and sang,</span>
   <span id="f000245">their delight and amazement knew no bounds.</span>
   <span id="f000246">The solemn minuet,</span>
   <span id="f000247">too,</span>
   <span id="f000248">performed by the dancing boys from the church of Nuestra Senora Del Pilar,</span>
   <span id="f000249">was charming.</span>
   <span id="f000250">The Infanta had never before seen this wonderful ceremony which takes place every year at Maytime in front of the high altar of the Virgin,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and in her honour;</span>
   <span id="f000252">and indeed none of the royal family of Spain had entered the great cathedral of Saragossa since a mad priest,</span>
   <span id="f000253">supposed by many to have been in the pay of Elizabeth of England,</span>
   <span id="f000254">had tried to administer a poisoned wafer to the Prince of the Asturias.</span>
   <span id="f000255">So she had known only by hearsay of ’Our Lady’s Dance,’ as it was called,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and it certainly was a beautiful sight.</span>
   <span id="f000257">The boys wore old-fashioned court dresses of white velvet,</span>
   <span id="f000258">and their curious three-cornered hats were fringed with silver and surmounted with huge plumes of ostrich feathers,</span>
   <span id="f000259">the dazzling whiteness of their costumes,</span>
   <span id="f000260">as they moved about in the sunlight,</span>
   <span id="f000261">being still more accentuated by their swarthy faces and long black hair.</span>
   <span id="f000262">Everybody was fascinated by the grave dignity with which they moved through the intricate figures of the dance,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and by the elaborate grace of their slow gestures,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and stately bows,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and when they had finished their performance and doffed their great plumed hats to the Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000266">she acknowledged their reverence with much courtesy,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and made a vow that she would send a large wax candle to the shrine of Our Lady of Pilar in return for the pleasure that she had given her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">A troop of handsome Egyptians – as the gipsies were termed in those days – then advanced into the arena,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and sitting down cross-legs,</span>
   <span id="f000270">in a circle,</span>
   <span id="f000271">began to play softly upon their zithers,</span>
   <span id="f000272">moving their bodies to the tune,</span>
   <span id="f000273">and humming,</span>
   <span id="f000274">almost below their breath,</span>
   <span id="f000275">a low dreamy air.</span>
   <span id="f000276">When they caught sight of Don Pedro they scowled at him,</span>
   <span id="f000277">and some of them looked terrified,</span>
   <span id="f000278">for only a few weeks before he had had two of their tribe hanged for sorcery in the market- place at Seville,</span>
   <span id="f000279">but the pretty Infanta charmed them as she leaned back peeping over her fan with her great blue eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and they felt sure that one so lovely as she was could never be cruel to anybody.</span>
   <span id="f000281">So they played on very gently and just touching the cords of the zithers with their long pointed nails,</span>
   <span id="f000282">and their heads began to nod as though they were falling asleep.</span>
   <span id="f000283">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000284">with a cry so shrill that all the children were startled and Don Pedro’s hand clutched at the agate pommel of his dagger,</span>
   <span id="f000285">they leapt to their feet and whirled madly round the enclosure beating their tambourines,</span>
   <span id="f000286">and chaunting some wild love-song in their strange guttural language.</span>
   <span id="f000287">Then at another signal they all flung themselves again to the ground and lay there quite still,</span>
   <span id="f000288">the dull strumming of the zithers being the only sound that broke the silence.</span>
   <span id="f000289">After that they had done this several times,</span>
   <span id="f000290">they disappeared for a moment and came back leading a brown shaggy bear by a chain,</span>
   <span id="f000291">and carrying on their shoulders some little Barbary apes.</span>
   <span id="f000292">The bear stood upon his head with the utmost gravity,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and the wizened apes played all kinds of amusing tricks with two gipsy boys who seemed to be their masters,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and fought with tiny swords,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and fired off guns,</span>
   <span id="f000296">and went through a regular soldier’s drill just like the King’s own bodyguard.</span>
   <span id="f000297">In fact the gipsies were a great success.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">But the funniest part of the whole morning’s entertainment,</span>
   <span id="f000299">was undoubtedly the dancing of the little Dwarf.</span>
   <span id="f000300">When he stumbled into the arena,</span>
   <span id="f000301">waddling on his crooked legs and wagging his huge misshapen head from side to side,</span>
   <span id="f000302">the children went off into a loud shout of delight,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and the Infanta herself laughed so much that the Camerera was obliged to remind her that although there were many precedents in Spain for a King’s daughter weeping before her equals,</span>
   <span id="f000304">there were none for a Princess of the blood royal making so merry before those who were her inferiors in birth.</span>
   <span id="f000305">The Dwarf,</span>
   <span id="f000306">however,</span>
   <span id="f000307">was really quite irresistible,</span>
   <span id="f000308">and even at the Spanish Court,</span>
   <span id="f000309">always noted for its cultivated passion for the horrible,</span>
   <span id="f000310">so fantastic a little monster had never been seen.</span>
   <span id="f000311">It was his first appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000312">too.</span>
   <span id="f000313">He had been discovered only the day before,</span>
   <span id="f000314">running wild through the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000315">by two of the nobles who happened to have been hunting in a remote part of the great cork-wood that surrounded the town,</span>
   <span id="f000316">and had been carried off by them to the Palace as a surprise for the Infanta;</span>
   <span id="f000317">his father,</span>
   <span id="f000318">who was a poor charcoal- burner,</span>
   <span id="f000319">being but too well pleased to get rid of so ugly and useless a child.</span>
   <span id="f000320">Perhaps the most amusing thing about him was his complete unconsciousness of his own grotesque appearance.</span>
   <span id="f000321">Indeed he seemed quite happy and full of the highest spirits.</span>
   <span id="f000322">When the children laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000323">he laughed as freely and as joyously as any of them,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and at the close of each dance he made them each the funniest of bows,</span>
   <span id="f000325">smiling and nodding at them just as if he was really one of themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and not a little misshapen thing that Nature,</span>
   <span id="f000327">in some humourous mood,</span>
   <span id="f000328">had fashioned for others to mock at.</span>
   <span id="f000329">As for the Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000330">she absolutely fascinated him.</span>
   <span id="f000331">He could not keep his eyes off her,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and seemed to dance for her alone,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and when at the close of the performance,</span>
   <span id="f000334">remembering how she had seen the great ladies of the Court throw bouquets to Caffarelli,</span>
   <span id="f000335">the famous Italian treble,</span>
   <span id="f000336">whom the Pope had sent from his own chapel to Madrid that he might cure the King’s melancholy by the sweetness of his voice,</span>
   <span id="f000337">she took out of her hair the beautiful white rose,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and partly for a jest and partly to tease the Camerera,</span>
   <span id="f000339">threw it to him across the arena with her sweetest smile,</span>
   <span id="f000340">he took the whole matter quite seriously,</span>
   <span id="f000341">and pressing the flower to his rough coarse lips he put his hand upon his heart,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and sank on one knee before her,</span>
   <span id="f000343">grinning from ear to ear,</span>
   <span id="f000344">and with his little bright eyes sparkling with pleasure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">This so upset the gravity of the Infanta that she kept on laughing long after the little Dwarf had ran out of the arena,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and expressed a desire to her uncle that the dance should be immediately repeated.</span>
   <span id="f000347">The Camerera,</span>
   <span id="f000348">however,</span>
   <span id="f000349">on the plea that the sun was too hot,</span>
   <span id="f000350">decided that it would be better that her Highness should return without delay to the Palace,</span>
   <span id="f000351">where a wonderful feast had been already prepared for her,</span>
   <span id="f000352">including a real birthday cake with her own initials worked all over it in painted sugar and a lovely silver flag waving from the top.</span>
   <span id="f000353">The Infanta accordingly rose up with much dignity,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and having given orders that the little dwarf was to dance again for her after the hour of siesta,</span>
   <span id="f000355">and conveyed her thanks to the young Count of Tierra-Nueva for his charming reception,</span>
   <span id="f000356">she went back to her apartments,</span>
   <span id="f000357">the children following in the same order in which they had entered.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000358">Now when the little Dwarf heard that he was to dance a second time before the Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000359">and by her own express command,</span>
   <span id="f000360">he was so proud that he ran out into the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000361">kissing the white rose in an absurd ecstasy of pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f000362">and making the most uncouth and clumsy gestures of delight.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">The Flowers were quite indignant at his daring to intrude into their beautiful home,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and when they saw him capering up and down the walks,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and waving his arms above his head in such a ridiculous manner,</span>
   <span id="f000366">they could not restrain their feelings any longer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">’He is really far too ugly to be allowed to play in any place where we are,’ cried the Tulips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">’He should drink poppy-juice,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and go to sleep for a thousand years,’ said the great scarlet Lilies,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and they grew quite hot and angry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">’He is a perfect horror!’ screamed the Cactus.</span>
   <span id="f000372">’Why,</span>
   <span id="f000373">he is twisted and stumpy,</span>
   <span id="f000374">and his head is completely out of proportion with his legs.</span>
   <span id="f000375">Really he makes me feel prickly all over,</span>
   <span id="f000376">and if he comes near me I will sting him with my thorns.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000377">’And he has actually got one of my best blooms,’ exclaimed the White Rose-Tree.</span>
   <span id="f000378">’I gave it to the Infanta this morning myself,</span>
   <span id="f000379">as a birthday present,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and he has stolen it from her.’ And she called out:</span>
   <span id="f000381">’Thief,</span>
   <span id="f000382">thief,</span>
   <span id="f000383">thief!’ at the top of her voice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">Even the red Geraniums,</span>
   <span id="f000385">who did not usually give themselves airs,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and were known to have a great many poor relations themselves,</span>
   <span id="f000387">curled up in disgust when they saw him,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and when the Violets meekly remarked that though he was certainly extremely plain,</span>
   <span id="f000389">still he could not help it,</span>
   <span id="f000390">they retorted with a good deal of justice that that was his chief defect,</span>
   <span id="f000391">and that there was no reason why one should admire a person because he was incurable;</span>
   <span id="f000392">and,</span>
   <span id="f000393">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000394">some of the Violets themselves felt that the ugliness of the little Dwarf was almost ostentatious,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and that he would have shown much better taste if he had looked sad,</span>
   <span id="f000396">or at least pensive,</span>
   <span id="f000397">instead of jumping about merrily,</span>
   <span id="f000398">and throwing himself into such grotesque and silly attitudes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">As for the old Sundial,</span>
   <span id="f000400">who was an extremely remarkable individual,</span>
   <span id="f000401">and had once told the time of day to no less a person than the Emperor Charles V.</span>
   <span id="f000402">himself,</span>
   <span id="f000403">he was so taken aback by the little Dwarf’s appearance,</span>
   <span id="f000404">that he almost forgot to mark two whole minutes with his long shadowy finger,</span>
   <span id="f000405">and could not help saying to the great milk-white Peacock,</span>
   <span id="f000406">who was sunning herself on the balustrade,</span>
   <span id="f000407">that every one knew that the children of Kings were Kings,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and that the children of charcoal-burners were charcoal- burners,</span>
   <span id="f000409">and that it was absurd to pretend that it wasn’t so;</span>
   <span id="f000410">a statement with which the Peacock entirely agreed,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and indeed screamed out,</span>
   <span id="f000412">’Certainly,</span>
   <span id="f000413">certainly,’ in such a loud,</span>
   <span id="f000414">harsh voice,</span>
   <span id="f000415">that the gold-fish who lived in the basin of the cool splashing fountain put their heads out of the water,</span>
   <span id="f000416">and asked the huge stone Tritons what on earth was the matter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">But somehow the Birds liked him.</span>
   <span id="f000418">They had seen him often in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000419">dancing about like an elf after the eddying leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000420">or crouched up in the hollow of some old oak-tree,</span>
   <span id="f000421">sharing his nuts with the squirrels.</span>
   <span id="f000422">They did not mind his being ugly,</span>
   <span id="f000423">a bit.</span>
   <span id="f000424">Why,</span>
   <span id="f000425">even the nightingale herself,</span>
   <span id="f000426">who sang so sweetly in the orange groves at night that sometimes the Moon leaned down to listen,</span>
   <span id="f000427">was not much to look at after all;</span>
   <span id="f000428">and,</span>
   <span id="f000429">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000430">he had been kind to them,</span>
   <span id="f000431">and during that terribly bitter winter,</span>
   <span id="f000432">when there were no berries on the trees,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and the ground was as hard as iron,</span>
   <span id="f000434">and the wolves had come down to the very gates of the city to look for food,</span>
   <span id="f000435">he had never once forgotten them,</span>
   <span id="f000436">but had always given them crumbs out of his little hunch of black bread,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and divided with them whatever poor breakfast he had.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">So they flew round and round him,</span>
   <span id="f000439">just touching his cheek with their wings as they passed,</span>
   <span id="f000440">and chattered to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000441">and the little Dwarf was so pleased that he could not help showing them the beautiful white rose,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and telling them that the Infanta herself had given it to him because she loved him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000443">They did not understand a single word of what he was saying,</span>
   <span id="f000444">but that made no matter,</span>
   <span id="f000445">for they put their heads on one side,</span>
   <span id="f000446">and looked wise,</span>
   <span id="f000447">which is quite as good as understanding a thing,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and very much easier.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">The Lizards also took an immense fancy to him,</span>
   <span id="f000450">and when he grew tired of running about and flung himself down on the grass to rest,</span>
   <span id="f000451">they played and romped all over him,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and tried to amuse him in the best way they could.</span>
   <span id="f000453">’Every one cannot be as beautiful as a lizard,’ they cried;</span>
   <span id="f000454">’that would be too much to expect.</span>
   <span id="f000455">And,</span>
   <span id="f000456">though it sounds absurd to say so,</span>
   <span id="f000457">he is really not so ugly after all,</span>
   <span id="f000458">provided,</span>
   <span id="f000459">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000460">that one shuts one’s eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000461">and does not look at him.’ The Lizards were extremely philosophical by nature,</span>
   <span id="f000462">and often sat thinking for hours and hours together,</span>
   <span id="f000463">when there was nothing else to do,</span>
   <span id="f000464">or when the weather was too rainy for them to go out.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">The Flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000466">however,</span>
   <span id="f000467">were excessively annoyed at their behaviour,</span>
   <span id="f000468">and at the behaviour of the birds.</span>
   <span id="f000469">’It only shows,’ they said,</span>
   <span id="f000470">’what a vulgarising effect this incessant rushing and flying about has.</span>
   <span id="f000471">Well-bred people always stay exactly in the same place,</span>
   <span id="f000472">as we do.</span>
   <span id="f000473">No one ever saw us hopping up and down the walks,</span>
   <span id="f000474">or galloping madly through the grass after dragon-flies.</span>
   <span id="f000475">When we do want change of air,</span>
   <span id="f000476">we send for the gardener,</span>
   <span id="f000477">and he carries us to another bed.</span>
   <span id="f000478">This is dignified,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and as it should be.</span>
   <span id="f000480">But birds and lizards have no sense of repose,</span>
   <span id="f000481">and indeed birds have not even a permanent address.</span>
   <span id="f000482">They are mere vagrants like the gipsies,</span>
   <span id="f000483">and should be treated in exactly the same manner.’ So they put their noses in the air,</span>
   <span id="f000484">and looked very haughty,</span>
   <span id="f000485">and were quite delighted when after some time they saw the little Dwarf scramble up from the grass,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and make his way across the terrace to the palace.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">’He should certainly be kept indoors for the rest of his natural life,’ they said.</span>
   <span id="f000488">’Look at his hunched back,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and his crooked legs,’ and they began to titter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000490">But the little Dwarf knew nothing of all this.</span>
   <span id="f000491">He liked the birds and the lizards immensely,</span>
   <span id="f000492">and thought that the flowers were the most marvellous things in the whole world,</span>
   <span id="f000493">except of course the Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000494">but then she had given him the beautiful white rose,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and she loved him,</span>
   <span id="f000496">and that made a great difference.</span>
   <span id="f000497">How he wished that he had gone back with her!</span>
   <span id="f000498">She would have put him on her right hand,</span>
   <span id="f000499">and smiled at him,</span>
   <span id="f000500">and he would have never left her side,</span>
   <span id="f000501">but would have made her his playmate,</span>
   <span id="f000502">and taught her all kinds of delightful tricks.</span>
   <span id="f000503">For though he had never been in a palace before,</span>
   <span id="f000504">he knew a great many wonderful things.</span>
   <span id="f000505">He could make little cages out of rushes for the grasshoppers to sing in,</span>
   <span id="f000506">and fashion the long jointed bamboo into the pipe that Pan loves to hear.</span>
   <span id="f000507">He knew the cry of every bird,</span>
   <span id="f000508">and could call the starlings from the tree-top,</span>
   <span id="f000509">or the heron from the mere.</span>
   <span id="f000510">He knew the trail of every animal,</span>
   <span id="f000511">and could track the hare by its delicate footprints,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and the boar by the trampled leaves.</span>
   <span id="f000513">All the wild- dances he knew,</span>
   <span id="f000514">the mad dance in red raiment with the autumn,</span>
   <span id="f000515">the light dance in blue sandals over the corn,</span>
   <span id="f000516">the dance with white snow-wreaths in winter,</span>
   <span id="f000517">and the blossom-dance through the orchards in spring.</span>
   <span id="f000518">He knew where the wood-pigeons built their nests,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and once when a fowler had snared the parent birds,</span>
   <span id="f000520">he had brought up the young ones himself,</span>
   <span id="f000521">and had built a little dovecot for them in the cleft of a pollard elm.</span>
   <span id="f000522">They were quite tame,</span>
   <span id="f000523">and used to feed out of his hands every morning.</span>
   <span id="f000524">She would like them,</span>
   <span id="f000525">and the rabbits that scurried about in the long fern,</span>
   <span id="f000526">and the jays with their steely feathers and black bills,</span>
   <span id="f000527">and the hedgehogs that could curl themselves up into prickly balls,</span>
   <span id="f000528">and the great wise tortoises that crawled slowly about,</span>
   <span id="f000529">shaking their heads and nibbling at the young leaves.</span>
   <span id="f000530">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000531">she must certainly come to the forest and play with him.</span>
   <span id="f000532">He would give her his own little bed,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and would watch outside the window till dawn,</span>
   <span id="f000534">to see that the wild horned cattle did not harm her,</span>
   <span id="f000535">nor the gaunt wolves creep too near the hut.</span>
   <span id="f000536">And at dawn he would tap at the shutters and wake her,</span>
   <span id="f000537">and they would go out and dance together all the day long.</span>
   <span id="f000538">It was really not a bit lonely in the forest.</span>
   <span id="f000539">Sometimes a Bishop rode through on his white mule,</span>
   <span id="f000540">reading out of a painted book.</span>
   <span id="f000541">Sometimes in their green velvet caps,</span>
   <span id="f000542">and their jerkins of tanned deerskin,</span>
   <span id="f000543">the falconers passed by,</span>
   <span id="f000544">with hooded hawks on their wrists.</span>
   <span id="f000545">At vintage-time came the grape-treaders,</span>
   <span id="f000546">with purple hands and feet,</span>
   <span id="f000547">wreathed with glossy ivy and carrying dripping skins of wine;</span>
   <span id="f000548">and the charcoal-burners sat round their huge braziers at night,</span>
   <span id="f000549">watching the dry logs charring slowly in the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000550">and roasting chestnuts in the ashes,</span>
   <span id="f000551">and the robbers came out of their caves and made merry with them.</span>
   <span id="f000552">Once,</span>
   <span id="f000553">too,</span>
   <span id="f000554">he had seen a beautiful procession winding up the long dusty road to Toledo.</span>
   <span id="f000555">The monks went in front singing sweetly,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and carrying bright banners and crosses of gold,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000558">in silver armour,</span>
   <span id="f000559">with matchlocks and pikes,</span>
   <span id="f000560">came the soldiers,</span>
   <span id="f000561">and in their midst walked three barefooted men,</span>
   <span id="f000562">in strange yellow dresses painted all over with wonderful figures,</span>
   <span id="f000563">and carrying lighted candles in their hands.</span>
   <span id="f000564">Certainly there was a great deal to look at in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000565">and when she was tired he would find a soft bank of moss for her,</span>
   <span id="f000566">or carry her in his arms,</span>
   <span id="f000567">for he was very strong,</span>
   <span id="f000568">though he knew that he was not tall.</span>
   <span id="f000569">He would make her a necklace of red bryony berries,</span>
   <span id="f000570">that would be quite as pretty as the white berries that she wore on her dress,</span>
   <span id="f000571">and when she was tired of them,</span>
   <span id="f000572">she could throw them away,</span>
   <span id="f000573">and he would find her others.</span>
   <span id="f000574">He would bring her acorn-cups and dew-drenched anemones,</span>
   <span id="f000575">and tiny glow-worms to be stars in the pale gold of her hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">But where was she?</span>
   <span id="f000577">He asked the white rose,</span>
   <span id="f000578">and it made him no answer.</span>
   <span id="f000579">The whole palace seemed asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000580">and even where the shutters had not been closed,</span>
   <span id="f000581">heavy curtains had been drawn across the windows to keep out the glare.</span>
   <span id="f000582">He wandered all round looking for some place through which he might gain an entrance,</span>
   <span id="f000583">and at last he caught sight of a little private door that was lying open.</span>
   <span id="f000584">He slipped through,</span>
   <span id="f000585">and found himself in a splendid hall,</span>
   <span id="f000586">far more splendid,</span>
   <span id="f000587">he feared,</span>
   <span id="f000588">than the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000589">there was so much more gilding everywhere,</span>
   <span id="f000590">and even the floor was made of great coloured stones,</span>
   <span id="f000591">fitted together into a sort of geometrical pattern.</span>
   <span id="f000592">But the little Infanta was not there,</span>
   <span id="f000593">only some wonderful white statues that looked down on him from their jasper pedestals,</span>
   <span id="f000594">with sad blank eyes and strangely smiling lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000595">At the end of the hall hung a richly embroidered curtain of black velvet,</span>
   <span id="f000596">powdered with suns and stars,</span>
   <span id="f000597">the King’s favourite devices,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and broidered on the colour he loved best.</span>
   <span id="f000599">Perhaps she was hiding behind that?</span>
   <span id="f000600">He would try at any rate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000601">So he stole quietly across,</span>
   <span id="f000602">and drew it aside.</span>
   <span id="f000603">No;</span>
   <span id="f000604">there was only another room,</span>
   <span id="f000605">though a prettier room,</span>
   <span id="f000606">he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000607">than the one he had just left.</span>
   <span id="f000608">The walls were hung with a many-figured green arras of needle-wrought tapestry representing a hunt,</span>
   <span id="f000609">the work of some Flemish artists who had spent more than seven years in its composition.</span>
   <span id="f000610">It had once been the chamber of Jean le Fou,</span>
   <span id="f000611">as he was called,</span>
   <span id="f000612">that mad King who was so enamoured of the chase,</span>
   <span id="f000613">that he had often tried in his delirium to mount the huge rearing horses,</span>
   <span id="f000614">and to drag down the stag on which the great hounds were leaping,</span>
   <span id="f000615">sounding his hunting horn,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and stabbing with his dagger at the pale flying deer.</span>
   <span id="f000617">It was now used as the council-room,</span>
   <span id="f000618">and on the centre table were lying the red portfolios of the ministers,</span>
   <span id="f000619">stamped with the gold tulips of Spain,</span>
   <span id="f000620">and with the arms and emblems of the house of Hapsburg.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000621">The little Dwarf looked in wonder all round him,</span>
   <span id="f000622">and was half- afraid to go on.</span>
   <span id="f000623">The strange silent horsemen that galloped so swiftly through the long glades without making any noise,</span>
   <span id="f000624">seemed to him like those terrible phantoms of whom he had heard the charcoal- burners speaking – the Comprachos,</span>
   <span id="f000625">who hunt only at night,</span>
   <span id="f000626">and if they meet a man,</span>
   <span id="f000627">turn him into a hind,</span>
   <span id="f000628">and chase him.</span>
   <span id="f000629">But he thought of the pretty Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000630">and took courage.</span>
   <span id="f000631">He wanted to find her alone,</span>
   <span id="f000632">and to tell her that he too loved her.</span>
   <span id="f000633">Perhaps she was in the room beyond.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">He ran across the soft Moorish carpets,</span>
   <span id="f000635">and opened the door.</span>
   <span id="f000636">No!</span>
   <span id="f000637">She was not here either.</span>
   <span id="f000638">The room was quite empty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000639">It was a throne-room,</span>
   <span id="f000640">used for the reception of foreign ambassadors,</span>
   <span id="f000641">when the King,</span>
   <span id="f000642">which of late had not been often,</span>
   <span id="f000643">consented to give them a personal audience;</span>
   <span id="f000644">the same room in which,</span>
   <span id="f000645">many years before,</span>
   <span id="f000646">envoys had appeared from England to make arrangements for the marriage of their Queen,</span>
   <span id="f000647">then one of the Catholic sovereigns of Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000648">with the Emperor’s eldest son.</span>
   <span id="f000649">The hangings were of gilt Cordovan leather,</span>
   <span id="f000650">and a heavy gilt chandelier with branches for three hundred wax lights hung down from the black and white ceiling.</span>
   <span id="f000651">Underneath a great canopy of gold cloth,</span>
   <span id="f000652">on which the lions and towers of Castile were broidered in seed pearls,</span>
   <span id="f000653">stood the throne itself,</span>
   <span id="f000654">covered with a rich pall of black velvet studded with silver tulips and elaborately fringed with silver and pearls.</span>
   <span id="f000655">On the second step of the throne was placed the kneeling-stool of the Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000656">with its cushion of cloth of silver tissue,</span>
   <span id="f000657">and below that again,</span>
   <span id="f000658">and beyond the limit of the canopy,</span>
   <span id="f000659">stood the chair for the Papal Nuncio,</span>
   <span id="f000660">who alone had the right to be seated in the King’s presence on the occasion of any public ceremonial,</span>
   <span id="f000661">and whose Cardinal’s hat,</span>
   <span id="f000662">with its tangled scarlet tassels,</span>
   <span id="f000663">lay on a purple tabouret in front.</span>
   <span id="f000664">On the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000665">facing the throne,</span>
   <span id="f000666">hung a life-sized portrait of Charles V.</span>
   <span id="f000667">in hunting dress,</span>
   <span id="f000668">with a great mastiff by his side,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and a picture of Philip II.</span>
   <span id="f000670">receiving the homage of the Netherlands occupied the centre of the other wall.</span>
   <span id="f000671">Between the windows stood a black ebony cabinet,</span>
   <span id="f000672">inlaid with plates of ivory,</span>
   <span id="f000673">on which the figures from Holbein’s Dance of Death had been graved – by the hand,</span>
   <span id="f000674">some said,</span>
   <span id="f000675">of that famous master himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000676">But the little Dwarf cared nothing for all this magnificence.</span>
   <span id="f000677">He would not have given his rose for all the pearls on the canopy,</span>
   <span id="f000678">nor one white petal of his rose for the throne itself.</span>
   <span id="f000679">What he wanted was to see the Infanta before she went down to the pavilion,</span>
   <span id="f000680">and to ask her to come away with him when he had finished his dance.</span>
   <span id="f000681">Here,</span>
   <span id="f000682">in the Palace,</span>
   <span id="f000683">the air was close and heavy,</span>
   <span id="f000684">but in the forest the wind blew free,</span>
   <span id="f000685">and the sunlight with wandering hands of gold moved the tremulous leaves aside.</span>
   <span id="f000686">There were flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000687">too,</span>
   <span id="f000688">in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000689">not so splendid,</span>
   <span id="f000690">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000691">as the flowers in the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000692">but more sweetly scented for all that;</span>
   <span id="f000693">hyacinths in early spring that flooded with waving purple the cool glens,</span>
   <span id="f000694">and grassy knolls;</span>
   <span id="f000695">yellow primroses that nestled in little clumps round the gnarled roots of the oak-trees;</span>
   <span id="f000696">bright celandine,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and blue speedwell,</span>
   <span id="f000698">and irises lilac and gold.</span>
   <span id="f000699">There were grey catkins on the hazels,</span>
   <span id="f000700">and the foxgloves drooped with the weight of their dappled bee-haunted cells.</span>
   <span id="f000701">The chestnut had its spires of white stars,</span>
   <span id="f000702">and the hawthorn its pallid moons of beauty.</span>
   <span id="f000703">Yes:</span>
   <span id="f000704">surely she would come if he could only find her!</span>
   <span id="f000705">She would come with him to the fair forest,</span>
   <span id="f000706">and all day long he would dance for her delight.</span>
   <span id="f000707">A smile lit up his eyes at the thought,</span>
   <span id="f000708">and he passed into the next room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000709">Of all the rooms this was the brightest and the most beautiful.</span>
   <span id="f000710">The walls were covered with a pink-flowered Lucca damask,</span>
   <span id="f000711">patterned with birds and dotted with dainty blossoms of silver;</span>
   <span id="f000712">the furniture was of massive silver,</span>
   <span id="f000713">festooned with florid wreaths,</span>
   <span id="f000714">and swinging Cupids;</span>
   <span id="f000715">in front of the two large fire-places stood great screens broidered with parrots and peacocks,</span>
   <span id="f000716">and the floor,</span>
   <span id="f000717">which was of sea-green onyx,</span>
   <span id="f000718">seemed to stretch far away into the distance.</span>
   <span id="f000719">Nor was he alone.</span>
   <span id="f000720">Standing under the shadow of the doorway,</span>
   <span id="f000721">at the extreme end of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000722">he saw a little figure watching him.</span>
   <span id="f000723">His heart trembled,</span>
   <span id="f000724">a cry of joy broke from his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000725">and he moved out into the sunlight.</span>
   <span id="f000726">As he did so,</span>
   <span id="f000727">the figure moved out also,</span>
   <span id="f000728">and he saw it plainly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000729">The Infanta!</span>
   <span id="f000730">It was a monster,</span>
   <span id="f000731">the most grotesque monster he had ever beheld.</span>
   <span id="f000732">Not properly shaped,</span>
   <span id="f000733">as all other people were,</span>
   <span id="f000734">but hunchbacked,</span>
   <span id="f000735">and crooked-limbed,</span>
   <span id="f000736">with huge lolling head and mane of black hair.</span>
   <span id="f000737">The little Dwarf frowned,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and the monster frowned also.</span>
   <span id="f000739">He laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000740">and it laughed with him,</span>
   <span id="f000741">and held its hands to its sides,</span>
   <span id="f000742">just as he himself was doing.</span>
   <span id="f000743">He made it a mocking bow,</span>
   <span id="f000744">and it returned him a low reverence.</span>
   <span id="f000745">He went towards it,</span>
   <span id="f000746">and it came to meet him,</span>
   <span id="f000747">copying each step that he made,</span>
   <span id="f000748">and stopping when he stopped himself.</span>
   <span id="f000749">He shouted with amusement,</span>
   <span id="f000750">and ran forward,</span>
   <span id="f000751">and reached out his hand,</span>
   <span id="f000752">and the hand of the monster touched his,</span>
   <span id="f000753">and it was as cold as ice.</span>
   <span id="f000754">He grew afraid,</span>
   <span id="f000755">and moved his hand across,</span>
   <span id="f000756">and the monster’s hand followed it quickly.</span>
   <span id="f000757">He tried to press on,</span>
   <span id="f000758">but something smooth and hard stopped him.</span>
   <span id="f000759">The face of the monster was now close to his own,</span>
   <span id="f000760">and seemed full of terror.</span>
   <span id="f000761">He brushed his hair off his eyes.</span>
   <span id="f000762">It imitated him.</span>
   <span id="f000763">He struck at it,</span>
   <span id="f000764">and it returned blow for blow.</span>
   <span id="f000765">He loathed it,</span>
   <span id="f000766">and it made hideous faces at him.</span>
   <span id="f000767">He drew back,</span>
   <span id="f000768">and it retreated.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000769">What is it?</span>
   <span id="f000770">He thought for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000771">and looked round at the rest of the room.</span>
   <span id="f000772">It was strange,</span>
   <span id="f000773">but everything seemed to have its double in this invisible wall of clear water.</span>
   <span id="f000774">Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000775">picture for picture was repeated,</span>
   <span id="f000776">and couch for couch.</span>
   <span id="f000777">The sleeping Faun that lay in the alcove by the doorway had its twin brother that slumbered,</span>
   <span id="f000778">and the silver Venus that stood in the sunlight held out her arms to a Venus as lovely as herself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">Was it Echo?</span>
   <span id="f000780">He had called to her once in the valley,</span>
   <span id="f000781">and she had answered him word for word.</span>
   <span id="f000782">Could she mock the eye,</span>
   <span id="f000783">as she mocked the voice?</span>
   <span id="f000784">Could she make a mimic world just like the real world?</span>
   <span id="f000785">Could the shadows of things have colour and life and movement?</span>
   <span id="f000786">Could it be that – ?</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000787">He started,</span>
   <span id="f000788">and taking from his breast the beautiful white rose,</span>
   <span id="f000789">he turned round,</span>
   <span id="f000790">and kissed it.</span>
   <span id="f000791">The monster had a rose of its own,</span>
   <span id="f000792">petal for petal the same!</span>
   <span id="f000793">It kissed it with like kisses,</span>
   <span id="f000794">and pressed it to its heart with horrible gestures.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000795">When the truth dawned upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000796">he gave a wild cry of despair,</span>
   <span id="f000797">and fell sobbing to the ground.</span>
   <span id="f000798">So it was he who was misshapen and hunchbacked,</span>
   <span id="f000799">foul to look at and grotesque.</span>
   <span id="f000800">He himself was the monster,</span>
   <span id="f000801">and it was at him that all the children had been laughing,</span>
   <span id="f000802">and the little Princess who he had thought loved him – she too had been merely mocking at his ugliness,</span>
   <span id="f000803">and making merry over his twisted limbs.</span>
   <span id="f000804">Why had they not left him in the forest,</span>
   <span id="f000805">where there was no mirror to tell him how loathsome he was?</span>
   <span id="f000806">Why had his father not killed him,</span>
   <span id="f000807">rather than sell him to his shame?</span>
   <span id="f000808">The hot tears poured down his cheeks,</span>
   <span id="f000809">and he tore the white rose to pieces.</span>
   <span id="f000810">The sprawling monster did the same,</span>
   <span id="f000811">and scattered the faint petals in the air.</span>
   <span id="f000812">It grovelled on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000813">and,</span>
   <span id="f000814">when he looked at it,</span>
   <span id="f000815">it watched him with a face drawn with pain.</span>
   <span id="f000816">He crept away,</span>
   <span id="f000817">lest he should see it,</span>
   <span id="f000818">and covered his eyes with his hands.</span>
   <span id="f000819">He crawled,</span>
   <span id="f000820">like some wounded thing,</span>
   <span id="f000821">into the shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000822">and lay there moaning.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000823">And at that moment the Infanta herself came in with her companions through the open window,</span>
   <span id="f000824">and when they saw the ugly little dwarf lying on the ground and beating the floor with his clenched hands,</span>
   <span id="f000825">in the most fantastic and exaggerated manner,</span>
   <span id="f000826">they went off into shouts of happy laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000827">and stood all round him and watched him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000828">’His dancing was funny,’ said the Infanta;</span>
   <span id="f000829">’but his acting is funnier still.</span>
   <span id="f000830">Indeed he is almost as good as the puppets,</span>
   <span id="f000831">only of course not quite so natural.’ And she fluttered her big fan,</span>
   <span id="f000832">and applauded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000833">But the little Dwarf never looked up,</span>
   <span id="f000834">and his sobs grew fainter and fainter,</span>
   <span id="f000835">and suddenly he gave a curious gasp,</span>
   <span id="f000836">and clutched his side.</span>
   <span id="f000837">And then he fell back again,</span>
   <span id="f000838">and lay quite still.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000839">’That is capital,’ said the Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000840">after a pause;</span>
   <span id="f000841">’but now you must dance for me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000842">’Yes,’ cried all the children,</span>
   <span id="f000843">’you must get up and dance,</span>
   <span id="f000844">for you are as clever as the Barbary apes,</span>
   <span id="f000845">and much more ridiculous.’ But the little Dwarf made no answer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000846">And the Infanta stamped her foot,</span>
   <span id="f000847">and called out to her uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000848">who was walking on the terrace with the Chamberlain,</span>
   <span id="f000849">reading some despatches that had just arrived from Mexico,</span>
   <span id="f000850">where the Holy Office had recently been established.</span>
   <span id="f000851">’My funny little dwarf is sulking,’ she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000852">’you must wake him up,</span>
   <span id="f000853">and tell him to dance for me.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000854">They smiled at each other,</span>
   <span id="f000855">and sauntered in,</span>
   <span id="f000856">and Don Pedro stooped down,</span>
   <span id="f000857">and slapped the Dwarf on the cheek with his embroidered glove.</span>
   <span id="f000858">’You must dance,’ he said,</span>
   <span id="f000859">’petit monsire.</span>
   <span id="f000860">You must dance.</span>
   <span id="f000861">The Infanta of Spain and the Indies wishes to be amused.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000862">But the little Dwarf never moved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000863">’A whipping master should be sent for,’ said Don Pedro wearily,</span>
   <span id="f000864">and he went back to the terrace.</span>
   <span id="f000865">But the Chamberlain looked grave,</span>
   <span id="f000866">and he knelt beside the little dwarf,</span>
   <span id="f000867">and put his hand upon his heart.</span>
   <span id="f000868">And after a few moments he shrugged his shoulders,</span>
   <span id="f000869">and rose up,</span>
   <span id="f000870">and having made a low bow to the Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000871">he said -</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">’Mi bella Princesa,</span>
   <span id="f000873">your funny little dwarf will never dance again.</span>
   <span id="f000874">It is a pity,</span>
   <span id="f000875">for he is so ugly that he might have made the King smile.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000876">’But why will he not dance again?’ asked the Infanta,</span>
   <span id="f000877">laughing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000878">’Because his heart is broken,’ answered the Chamberlain.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000879">And the Infanta frowned,</span>
   <span id="f000880">and her dainty rose-leaf lips curled in pretty disdain.</span>
   <span id="f000881">’For the future let those who come to play with me have no hearts,’ she cried,</span>
   <span id="f000882">and she ran out into the garden.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

