<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Introductory</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">It was Christmas Eve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000003">I begin this way because it is the proper,</span>
   <span id="f000004">orthodox,</span>
   <span id="f000005">respectable way to begin,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and I have been brought up in a proper,</span>
   <span id="f000007">orthodox,</span>
   <span id="f000008">respectable way,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and taught to always do the proper,</span>
   <span id="f000010">orthodox,</span>
   <span id="f000011">respectable thing;</span>
   <span id="f000012">and the habit clings to me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">Of course,</span>
   <span id="f000014">as a mere matter of information it is quite unnecessary to mention the date at all.</span>
   <span id="f000015">The experienced reader knows it was Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000016">without my telling him.</span>
   <span id="f000017">It always is Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000018">in a ghost story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000019">Christmas Eve is the ghosts’ great gala night.</span>
   <span id="f000020">On Christmas Eve they hold their annual fete.</span>
   <span id="f000021">On Christmas Eve everybody in Ghostland who IS anybody – or rather,</span>
   <span id="f000022">speaking of ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000023">one should say,</span>
   <span id="f000024">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000025">every nobody who IS any nobody – comes out to show himself or herself,</span>
   <span id="f000026">to see and to be seen,</span>
   <span id="f000027">to promenade about and display their winding-sheets and grave-clothes to each other,</span>
   <span id="f000028">to criticise one another’s style,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and sneer at one another’s complexion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“Christmas Eve parade,” as I expect they themselves term it,</span>
   <span id="f000031">is a function,</span>
   <span id="f000032">doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f000033">eagerly prepared for and looked forward to throughout Ghostland,</span>
   <span id="f000034">especially the swagger set,</span>
   <span id="f000035">such as the murdered Barons,</span>
   <span id="f000036">the crime-stained Countesses,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and the Earls who came over with the Conqueror,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and assassinated their relatives,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and died raving mad.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000040">Hollow moans and fiendish grins are,</span>
   <span id="f000041">one may be sure,</span>
   <span id="f000042">energetically practised up.</span>
   <span id="f000043">Blood-curdling shrieks and marrow-freezing gestures are probably rehearsed for weeks beforehand.</span>
   <span id="f000044">Rusty chains and gory daggers are over-hauled,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and put into good working order;</span>
   <span id="f000046">and sheets and shrouds,</span>
   <span id="f000047">laid carefully by from the previous year’s show,</span>
   <span id="f000048">are taken down and shaken out,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and mended,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and aired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000051">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000052">it is a stirring night in Ghostland,</span>
   <span id="f000053">the night of December the twenty-fourth!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">Ghosts never come out on Christmas night itself,</span>
   <span id="f000055">you may have noticed.</span>
   <span id="f000056">Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000057">we suspect,</span>
   <span id="f000058">has been too much for them;</span>
   <span id="f000059">they are not used to excitement.</span>
   <span id="f000060">For about a week after Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000061">the gentlemen ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000062">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000063">feel as if they were all head,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and go about making solemn resolutions to themselves that they will stop in next Christmas Eve;</span>
   <span id="f000065">while lady spectres are contradictory and snappish,</span>
   <span id="f000066">and liable to burst into tears and leave the room hurriedly on being spoken to,</span>
   <span id="f000067">for no perceptible cause whatever.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000068">Ghosts with no position to maintain – mere middle-class ghosts – occasionally,</span>
   <span id="f000069">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000070">do a little haunting on off-nights:</span>
   <span id="f000071">on All-hallows Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and at Midsummer;</span>
   <span id="f000073">and some will even run up for a mere local event – to celebrate,</span>
   <span id="f000074">for instance,</span>
   <span id="f000075">the anniversary of the hanging of somebody’s grandfather,</span>
   <span id="f000076">or to prophesy a misfortune.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">He does love prophesying a misfortune,</span>
   <span id="f000078">does the average British ghost.</span>
   <span id="f000079">Send him out to prognosticate trouble to somebody,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and he is happy.</span>
   <span id="f000081">Let him force his way into a peaceful home,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and turn the whole house upside down by foretelling a funeral,</span>
   <span id="f000083">or predicting a bankruptcy,</span>
   <span id="f000084">or hinting at a coming disgrace,</span>
   <span id="f000085">or some other terrible disaster,</span>
   <span id="f000086">about which nobody in their senses want to know sooner they could possibly help,</span>
   <span id="f000087">and the prior knowledge of which can serve no useful purpose whatsoever,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and he feels that he is combining duty with pleasure.</span>
   <span id="f000089">He would never forgive himself if anybody in his family had a trouble and he had not been there for a couple of months beforehand,</span>
   <span id="f000090">doing silly tricks on the lawn,</span>
   <span id="f000091">or balancing himself on somebody’s bed-rail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">Then there are,</span>
   <span id="f000093">besides,</span>
   <span id="f000094">the very young,</span>
   <span id="f000095">or very conscientious ghosts with a lost will or an undiscovered number weighing heavy on their minds,</span>
   <span id="f000096">who will haunt steadily all the year round;</span>
   <span id="f000097">and also the fussy ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000098">who is indignant at having been buried in the dust-bin or in the village pond,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and who never gives the parish a single night’s quiet until somebody has paid for a first-class funeral for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">But these are the exceptions.</span>
   <span id="f000101">As I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000102">the average orthodox ghost does his one turn a year,</span>
   <span id="f000103">on Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000104">and is satisfied.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">Why on Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000106">of all nights in the year,</span>
   <span id="f000107">I never could myself understand.</span>
   <span id="f000108">It is invariably one of the most dismal of nights to be out in – cold,</span>
   <span id="f000109">muddy,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and wet.</span>
   <span id="f000111">And besides,</span>
   <span id="f000112">at Christmas time,</span>
   <span id="f000113">everybody has quite enough to put up with in the way of a houseful of living relations,</span>
   <span id="f000114">without wanting the ghosts of any dead ones mooning about the place,</span>
   <span id="f000115">I am sure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">There must be something ghostly in the air of Christmas – something about the close,</span>
   <span id="f000117">muggy atmosphere that draws up the ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000118">like the dampness of the summer rains brings out the frogs and snails.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">And not only do the ghosts themselves always walk on Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000120">but live people always sit and talk about them on Christmas Eve.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Whenever five or six English-speaking people meet round a fire on Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000122">they start telling each other ghost stories.</span>
   <span id="f000123">Nothing satisfies us on Christmas Eve but to hear each other tell authentic anecdotes about spectres.</span>
   <span id="f000124">It is a genial,</span>
   <span id="f000125">festive season,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and we love to muse upon graves,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and dead bodies,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and murders,</span>
   <span id="f000129">and blood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">There is a good deal of similarity about our ghostly experiences;</span>
   <span id="f000131">but this of course is not our fault but the fault ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000132">who never will try any new performances,</span>
   <span id="f000133">but always will keep steadily to old,</span>
   <span id="f000134">safe business.</span>
   <span id="f000135">The consequence is that,</span>
   <span id="f000136">when you have been at one Christmas Eve party,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and heard six people relate their adventures with spirits,</span>
   <span id="f000138">you do not require to hear any more ghost stories.</span>
   <span id="f000139">To listen to any further ghost stories after that would be like sitting out two farcical comedies,</span>
   <span id="f000140">or taking in two comic journals;</span>
   <span id="f000141">the repetition would become wearisome.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">There is always the young man who was,</span>
   <span id="f000143">one year,</span>
   <span id="f000144">spending the Christmas at a country house,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and,</span>
   <span id="f000146">on Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000147">they put him to sleep in the west wing.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Then in the middle of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000149">the room door quietly opens and somebody – generally a lady in her night-dress – walks slowly in,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and comes and sits on the bed.</span>
   <span id="f000151">The young man thinks it must be one of the visitors,</span>
   <span id="f000152">or some relative of the family,</span>
   <span id="f000153">though he does not remember having previously seen her,</span>
   <span id="f000154">who,</span>
   <span id="f000155">unable to go to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and feeling lonesome,</span>
   <span id="f000157">all by herself,</span>
   <span id="f000158">has come into his room for a chat.</span>
   <span id="f000159">He has no idea it is a ghost:</span>
   <span id="f000160">he is so unsuspicious.</span>
   <span id="f000161">She does not speak,</span>
   <span id="f000162">however;</span>
   <span id="f000163">and,</span>
   <span id="f000164">when he looks again,</span>
   <span id="f000165">she is gone!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">The young man relates the circumstance at the breakfast-table next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and asks each of the ladies present if it were she who was his visitor.</span>
   <span id="f000168">But they all assure him that it was not,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and the host,</span>
   <span id="f000170">who has grown deadly pale,</span>
   <span id="f000171">begs him to say no more about the matter,</span>
   <span id="f000172">which strikes the young man as a singularly strange request.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">After breakfast the host takes the young man into a corner,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and explains to him that what he saw was the ghost of a lady who had been murdered in that very bed,</span>
   <span id="f000175">or who had murdered somebody else there – it does not really matter which:</span>
   <span id="f000176">you can be a ghost by murdering somebody else or by being murdered yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000177">whichever you prefer.</span>
   <span id="f000178">The murdered ghost is,</span>
   <span id="f000179">perhaps,</span>
   <span id="f000180">the more popular;</span>
   <span id="f000181">but,</span>
   <span id="f000182">on the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000183">you can frighten people better if you are the murdered one,</span>
   <span id="f000184">because then you can show your wounds and do groans.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">Then there is the sceptical guest – it is always ’the guest’ who gets let in for this sort of thing,</span>
   <span id="f000186">by-the-bye.</span>
   <span id="f000187">A ghost never thinks much of his own family:</span>
   <span id="f000188">it is ’the guest’ he likes to haunt who after listening to the host’s ghost story,</span>
   <span id="f000189">on Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000190">laughs at it,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and says that he does not believe there are such things as ghosts at all;</span>
   <span id="f000192">and that he will sleep in the haunted chamber that very night,</span>
   <span id="f000193">if they will let him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">Everybody urges him not to be reckless,</span>
   <span id="f000195">but he persists in his foolhardiness,</span>
   <span id="f000196">and goes up to the Yellow Chamber</span>
   <span id="f000197">(or whatever colour the haunted room may be)</span>
   <span id="f000198">with a light heart and a candle,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and wishes them all good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and shuts the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">Next morning he has got snow-white hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">He does not tell anybody what he has seen:</span>
   <span id="f000203">it is too awful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">There is also the plucky guest,</span>
   <span id="f000205">who sees a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and knows it is a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and watches it,</span>
   <span id="f000208">as it comes into the room and disappears through the wainscot,</span>
   <span id="f000209">after which,</span>
   <span id="f000210">as the ghost does not seem to be coming back,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and there is nothing,</span>
   <span id="f000212">consequently,</span>
   <span id="f000213">to be gained by stopping awake,</span>
   <span id="f000214">he goes to sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">He does not mention having seen the ghost to anybody,</span>
   <span id="f000216">for fear of frightening them – some people are so nervous about ghosts,</span>
   <span id="f000217">– but determines to wait for the next night,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and see if the apparition appears again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">It does appear again,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and,</span>
   <span id="f000221">this time,</span>
   <span id="f000222">he gets out of bed,</span>
   <span id="f000223">dresses himself and does his hair,</span>
   <span id="f000224">and follows it;</span>
   <span id="f000225">and then discovers a secret passage leading from the bedroom down into the beer-cellar,- -a passage which,</span>
   <span id="f000226">no doubt,</span>
   <span id="f000227">was not unfrequently made use of in the bad old days of yore.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000228">After him comes the young man who woke up with a strange sensation in the middle of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000229">and found his rich bachelor uncle standing by his bedside.</span>
   <span id="f000230">The rich uncle smiled a weird sort of smile and vanished.</span>
   <span id="f000231">The young man immediately got up and looked at his watch.</span>
   <span id="f000232">It had stopped at half-past four,</span>
   <span id="f000233">he having forgotten to wind it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">He made inquiries the next day,</span>
   <span id="f000235">and found that,</span>
   <span id="f000236">strangely enough,</span>
   <span id="f000237">his rich uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000238">whose only nephew he was,</span>
   <span id="f000239">had married a widow with eleven children at exactly a quarter to twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000240">only two days ago,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">The young man does not attempt to explain the circumstance.</span>
   <span id="f000242">All he does is to vouch for the truth of his narrative.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000243">And,</span>
   <span id="f000244">to mention another case,</span>
   <span id="f000245">there is the gentleman who is returning home late at night,</span>
   <span id="f000246">from a Freemasons’ dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and who,</span>
   <span id="f000248">noticing a light issuing from a ruined abbey,</span>
   <span id="f000249">creeps up,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and looks through the keyhole.</span>
   <span id="f000251">He sees the ghost of a ’grey sister’ kissing the ghost of a brown monk,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and is so inexpressibly shocked and frightened that he faints on the spot,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and is discovered there the next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000254">lying in a heap against the door,</span>
   <span id="f000255">still speechless,</span>
   <span id="f000256">and with his faithful latch-key clasped tightly in his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">All these things happen on Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000258">they are all told of on Christmas Eve.</span>
   <span id="f000259">For ghost stories to be told on any other evening than the evening of the twenty-fourth of December would be impossible in English society as at present regulated.</span>
   <span id="f000260">Therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000261">in introducing the sad but authentic ghost stories that follow hereafter,</span>
   <span id="f000262">I feel that it is unnecessary to inform the student of Anglo-Saxon literature that the date on which they were told and on which the incidents took place was – Christmas Eve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">Nevertheless,</span>
   <span id="f000264">I do so.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

