<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">How the Stories Came to be Told</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">It was Christmas Eve!</span>
   <span id="f000003">Christmas Eve at my Uncle John’s;</span>
   <span id="f000004">Christmas Eve</span>
   <span id="f000005">(There is too much ’Christmas Eve’ about this book.</span>
   <span id="f000006">I can see that myself.</span>
   <span id="f000007">It is beginning to get monotonous even to me.</span>
   <span id="f000008">But I don’t see how to avoid it now.)</span>
   <span id="f000009">at No.</span>
   <span id="f000010">47 Laburnham Grove,</span>
   <span id="f000011">Tooting!</span>
   <span id="f000012">Christmas Eve in the dimly-lighted</span>
   <span id="f000013">(there was a gas-strike on)</span>
   <span id="f000014">front parlour,</span>
   <span id="f000015">where the flickering fire-light threw strange shadows on the highly coloured wall-paper,</span>
   <span id="f000016">while without,</span>
   <span id="f000017">in the wild street,</span>
   <span id="f000018">the storm raged pitilessly,</span>
   <span id="f000019">and the wind,</span>
   <span id="f000020">like some unquiet spirit,</span>
   <span id="f000021">flew,</span>
   <span id="f000022">moaning,</span>
   <span id="f000023">across the square,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and passed,</span>
   <span id="f000025">wailing with a troubled cry,</span>
   <span id="f000026">round by the milk-shop.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000027">We had had supper,</span>
   <span id="f000028">and were sitting round,</span>
   <span id="f000029">talking and smoking.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">We had had a very good supper – a very good supper,</span>
   <span id="f000031">indeed.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Unpleasantness has occurred since,</span>
   <span id="f000033">in our family,</span>
   <span id="f000034">in connection with this party.</span>
   <span id="f000035">Rumours have been put about in our family,</span>
   <span id="f000036">concerning the matter generally,</span>
   <span id="f000037">but more particularly concerning my own share in it,</span>
   <span id="f000038">and remarks have been passed which have not so much surprised me,</span>
   <span id="f000039">because I know what our family are,</span>
   <span id="f000040">but which have pained me very much.</span>
   <span id="f000041">As for my Aunt Maria,</span>
   <span id="f000042">I do not know when I shall care to see her again.</span>
   <span id="f000043">I should have thought Aunt Maria might have known me better.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000044">But although injustice – gross injustice,</span>
   <span id="f000045">as I shall explain later on – has been done to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000046">that shall not deter me from doing justice to others;</span>
   <span id="f000047">even to those who have made unfeeling insinuations.</span>
   <span id="f000048">I will do justice to Aunt Maria’s hot veal pasties,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and toasted lobsters,</span>
   <span id="f000050">followed by her own special make of cheesecakes,</span>
   <span id="f000051">warm</span>
   <span id="f000052">(there is no sense,</span>
   <span id="f000053">to my thinking,</span>
   <span id="f000054">in cold cheesecakes;</span>
   <span id="f000055">you lose half the flavour),</span>
   <span id="f000056">and washed down by Uncle John’s own particular old ale,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and acknowledge that they were most tasty.</span>
   <span id="f000058">I did justice to them then;</span>
   <span id="f000059">Aunt Maria herself could not but admit that.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">After supper,</span>
   <span id="f000061">Uncle brewed some whisky-punch.</span>
   <span id="f000062">I did justice to that also;</span>
   <span id="f000063">Uncle John himself said so.</span>
   <span id="f000064">He said he was glad to notice that I liked it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">Aunt went to bed soon after supper,</span>
   <span id="f000066">leaving the local curate,</span>
   <span id="f000067">old Dr.&#160;Scrubbles,</span>
   <span id="f000068">Mr.&#160;Samuel Coombes,</span>
   <span id="f000069">our member of the County Council,</span>
   <span id="f000070">Teddy Biffles,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and myself to keep Uncle company.</span>
   <span id="f000072">We agreed that it was too early to give in for some time yet,</span>
   <span id="f000073">so Uncle brewed another bowl of punch;</span>
   <span id="f000074">and I think we all did justice to that – at least I know I did.</span>
   <span id="f000075">It is a passion with me,</span>
   <span id="f000076">is the desire to do justice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">We sat up for a long while,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and the Doctor brewed some gin-punch later on,</span>
   <span id="f000079">for a change,</span>
   <span id="f000080">though I could not taste much difference myself.</span>
   <span id="f000081">But it was all good,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and we were very happy – everybody was so kind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">Uncle John told us a very funny story in the course of the evening.</span>
   <span id="f000084">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000085">it WAS a funny story!</span>
   <span id="f000086">I forget what it was about now,</span>
   <span id="f000087">but I know it amused me very much at the time;</span>
   <span id="f000088">I do not think I ever laughed so much in all my life.</span>
   <span id="f000089">It is strange that I cannot recollect that story too,</span>
   <span id="f000090">because he told it us four times.</span>
   <span id="f000091">And it was entirely our own fault that he did not tell it us a fifth.</span>
   <span id="f000092">After that,</span>
   <span id="f000093">the Doctor sang a very clever song,</span>
   <span id="f000094">in the course of which he imitated all the different animals in a farmyard.</span>
   <span id="f000095">He did mix them a bit.</span>
   <span id="f000096">He brayed for the bantam cock,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and crowed for the pig;</span>
   <span id="f000098">but we knew what he meant all right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">I started relating a most interesting anecdote,</span>
   <span id="f000100">but was somewhat surprised to observe,</span>
   <span id="f000101">as I went on,</span>
   <span id="f000102">that nobody was paying the slightest attention to me whatever.</span>
   <span id="f000103">I thought this rather rude of them at first,</span>
   <span id="f000104">until it dawned upon me that I was talking to myself all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000105">instead of out aloud,</span>
   <span id="f000106">so that,</span>
   <span id="f000107">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000108">they did not know that I was telling them a tale at all,</span>
   <span id="f000109">and were probably puzzled to understand the meaning of my animated expression and eloquent gestures.</span>
   <span id="f000110">It was a most curious mistake for any one to make.</span>
   <span id="f000111">I never knew such a thing happen to me before.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000112">Later on,</span>
   <span id="f000113">our curate did tricks with cards.</span>
   <span id="f000114">He asked us if we had ever seen a game called the “Three Card Trick.” He said it was an artifice by means of which low,</span>
   <span id="f000115">unscrupulous men,</span>
   <span id="f000116">frequenters of race-meetings and such like haunts,</span>
   <span id="f000117">swindled foolish young fellows out of their money.</span>
   <span id="f000118">He said it was a very simple trick to do:</span>
   <span id="f000119">it all depended on the quickness of the hand.</span>
   <span id="f000120">It was the quickness of the hand deceived the eye.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">He said he would show us the imposture so that we might be warned against it,</span>
   <span id="f000122">and not be taken in by it;</span>
   <span id="f000123">and he fetched Uncle’s pack of cards from the tea-caddy,</span>
   <span id="f000124">and,</span>
   <span id="f000125">selecting three cards from the pack,</span>
   <span id="f000126">two plain cards and one picture card,</span>
   <span id="f000127">sat down on the hearthrug,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and explained to us what he was going to do.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">He said:</span>
   <span id="f000130">“Now I shall take these three cards in my hand – so – and let you all see them.</span>
   <span id="f000131">And then I shall quietly lay them down on the rug,</span>
   <span id="f000132">with the backs uppermost,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and ask you to pick out the picture card.</span>
   <span id="f000134">And you’ll think you know which one it is.” And he did it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">Old Mr.&#160;Coombes,</span>
   <span id="f000136">who is also one of our churchwardens,</span>
   <span id="f000137">said it was the middle card.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“You fancy you saw it,” said our curate,</span>
   <span id="f000139">smiling.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">“I don’t ’fancy’ anything at all about it,” replied Mr.&#160;Coombes,</span>
   <span id="f000141">“I tell you it’s the middle card.</span>
   <span id="f000142">I’ll bet you half a dollar it’s the middle card.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000143">“There you are,</span>
   <span id="f000144">that’s just what I was explaining to you,” said our curate,</span>
   <span id="f000145">turning to the rest of us;</span>
   <span id="f000146">“that’s the way these foolish young fellows that I was speaking of are lured on to lose their money.</span>
   <span id="f000147">They make sure they know the card,</span>
   <span id="f000148">they fancy they saw it.</span>
   <span id="f000149">They don’t grasp the idea that it is the quickness of the hand that has deceived their eye.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000150">He said he had known young men go off to a boat race,</span>
   <span id="f000151">or a cricket match,</span>
   <span id="f000152">with pounds in their pocket,</span>
   <span id="f000153">and come home,</span>
   <span id="f000154">early in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000155">stone broke;</span>
   <span id="f000156">having lost all their money at this demoralising game.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000157">He said he should take Mr.&#160;Coombes’s half-crown,</span>
   <span id="f000158">because it would teach Mr.&#160;Coombes a very useful lesson,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and probably be the means of saving Mr.&#160;Coombes’s money in the future;</span>
   <span id="f000160">and he should give the two-and-sixpence to the blanket fund.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“Don’t you worry about that,” retorted old Mr.&#160;Coombes.</span>
   <span id="f000162">“Don’t you take the half-crown OUT of the blanket fund:</span>
   <span id="f000163">that’s all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">And he put his money on the middle card,</span>
   <span id="f000165">and turned it up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">Sure enough,</span>
   <span id="f000167">it really was the queen!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">We were all very much surprised,</span>
   <span id="f000169">especially the curate.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000170">He said that it did sometimes happen that way,</span>
   <span id="f000171">though – that a man did sometimes lay on the right card,</span>
   <span id="f000172">by accident.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">Our curate said it was,</span>
   <span id="f000174">however,</span>
   <span id="f000175">the most unfortunate thing a man could do for himself,</span>
   <span id="f000176">if he only knew it,</span>
   <span id="f000177">because,</span>
   <span id="f000178">when a man tried and won,</span>
   <span id="f000179">it gave him a taste for the so-called sport,</span>
   <span id="f000180">and it lured him on into risking again and again;</span>
   <span id="f000181">until he had to retire from the contest,</span>
   <span id="f000182">a broken and ruined man.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">Then he did the trick again.</span>
   <span id="f000184">Mr.&#160;Coombes said it was the card next the coal-scuttle this time,</span>
   <span id="f000185">and wanted to put five shillings on it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">We laughed at him,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and tried to persuade him against it.</span>
   <span id="f000188">He would listen to no advice,</span>
   <span id="f000189">however,</span>
   <span id="f000190">but insisted on plunging.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">Our curate said very well then:</span>
   <span id="f000192">he had warned him,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and that was all that he could do.</span>
   <span id="f000194">If he</span>
   <span id="f000195">(Mr.&#160;Coombes)</span>
   <span id="f000196">was determined to make a fool of himself,</span>
   <span id="f000197">he</span>
   <span id="f000198">(Mr.&#160;Coombes)</span>
   <span id="f000199">must do so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000200">Our curate said he should take the five shillings and that would put things right again with the blanket fund.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">So Mr.&#160;Coombes put two half-crowns on the card next the coal- scuttle and turned it up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">Sure enough,</span>
   <span id="f000203">it was the queen again!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">After that,</span>
   <span id="f000205">Uncle John had a florin on,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and HE won.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">And then we all played at it;</span>
   <span id="f000208">and we all won.</span>
   <span id="f000209">All except the curate,</span>
   <span id="f000210">that is.</span>
   <span id="f000211">He had a very bad quarter of an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000212">I never knew a man have such hard luck at cards.</span>
   <span id="f000213">He lost every time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">We had some more punch after that;</span>
   <span id="f000215">and Uncle made such a funny mistake in brewing it:</span>
   <span id="f000216">he left out the whisky.</span>
   <span id="f000217">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000218">we did laugh at him,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and we made him put in double quantity afterwards,</span>
   <span id="f000220">as a forfeit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000222">we did have such fun that evening!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000223">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000224">somehow or other,</span>
   <span id="f000225">we must have got on to ghosts;</span>
   <span id="f000226">because the next recollection I have is that we were telling ghost stories to each other.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

