<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">Teddy Biffles' Story</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">Teddy Biffles told the first story,</span>
   <span id="f000003">I will let him repeat it here in his own words.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000004">(Do not ask me how it is that I recollect his own exact words – whether I took them down in shorthand at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000005">or whether he had the story written out,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and handed me the MS.</span>
   <span id="f000007">afterwards for publication in this book,</span>
   <span id="f000008">because I should not tell you if you did.</span>
   <span id="f000009">It is a trade secret.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000010">Biffles called his story -</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000011">JOHNSON AND EMILY OR THE FAITHFUL GHOST</span>
   <span id="f000012">(Teddy Biffles’ Story)</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000013">I was little more than a lad when I first met with Johnson.</span>
   <span id="f000014">I was home for the Christmas holidays,</span>
   <span id="f000015">and,</span>
   <span id="f000016">it being Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000017">I had been allowed to sit up very late.</span>
   <span id="f000018">On opening the door of my little bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000019">to go in,</span>
   <span id="f000020">I found myself face to face with Johnson,</span>
   <span id="f000021">who was coming out.</span>
   <span id="f000022">It passed through me,</span>
   <span id="f000023">and uttering a long low wail of misery,</span>
   <span id="f000024">disappeared out of the staircase window.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">I was startled for the moment – I was only a schoolboy at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and had never seen a ghost before,</span>
   <span id="f000027">– and felt a little nervous about going to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000028">But,</span>
   <span id="f000029">on reflection,</span>
   <span id="f000030">I remembered that it was only sinful people that spirits could do any harm to,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and so tucked myself up,</span>
   <span id="f000032">and went to sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000033">In the morning I told the Pater what I had seen.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“Oh yes,</span>
   <span id="f000035">that was old Johnson,” he answered.</span>
   <span id="f000036">“Don’t you be frightened of that;</span>
   <span id="f000037">he lives here.” And then he told me the poor thing’s history.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">It seemed that Johnson,</span>
   <span id="f000039">when it was alive,</span>
   <span id="f000040">had loved,</span>
   <span id="f000041">in early life,</span>
   <span id="f000042">the daughter of a former lessee of our house,</span>
   <span id="f000043">a very beautiful girl,</span>
   <span id="f000044">whose Christian name had been Emily.</span>
   <span id="f000045">Father did not know her other name.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">Johnson was too poor to marry the girl,</span>
   <span id="f000047">so he kissed her good-bye,</span>
   <span id="f000048">told her he would soon be back,</span>
   <span id="f000049">and went off to Australia to make his fortune.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">But Australia was not then what it became later on.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Travellers through the bush were few and far between in those early days;</span>
   <span id="f000052">and,</span>
   <span id="f000053">even when one was caught,</span>
   <span id="f000054">the portable property found upon the body was often of hardly sufficiently negotiable value to pay the simple funeral expenses rendered necessary.</span>
   <span id="f000055">So that it took Johnson nearly twenty years to make his fortune.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">The self-imposed task was accomplished at last,</span>
   <span id="f000057">however,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000059">having successfully eluded the police,</span>
   <span id="f000060">and got clear out of the Colony,</span>
   <span id="f000061">he returned to England,</span>
   <span id="f000062">full of hope and joy,</span>
   <span id="f000063">to claim his bride.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">He reached the house to find it silent and deserted.</span>
   <span id="f000065">All that the neighbours could tell him was that,</span>
   <span id="f000066">soon after his own departure,</span>
   <span id="f000067">the family had,</span>
   <span id="f000068">on one foggy night,</span>
   <span id="f000069">unostentatiously disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and that nobody had ever seen or heard anything of them since,</span>
   <span id="f000071">although the landlord and most of the local tradesmen had made searching inquiries.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000072">Poor Johnson,</span>
   <span id="f000073">frenzied with grief,</span>
   <span id="f000074">sought his lost love all over the world.</span>
   <span id="f000075">But he never found her,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and,</span>
   <span id="f000077">after years of fruitless effort,</span>
   <span id="f000078">he returned to end his lonely life in the very house where,</span>
   <span id="f000079">in the happy bygone days,</span>
   <span id="f000080">he and his beloved Emily had passed so many blissful hours.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000081">He had lived there quite alone,</span>
   <span id="f000082">wandering about the empty rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000083">weeping and calling to his Emily to come back to him;</span>
   <span id="f000084">and when the poor old fellow died,</span>
   <span id="f000085">his ghost still kept the business on.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">It was there,</span>
   <span id="f000087">the Pater said,</span>
   <span id="f000088">when he took the house,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and the agent had knocked ten pounds a year off the rent in consequence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000090">After that,</span>
   <span id="f000091">I was continually meeting Johnson about the place at all times of the night,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and so,</span>
   <span id="f000093">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000094">were we all.</span>
   <span id="f000095">We used to walk round it and stand aside to let it pass,</span>
   <span id="f000096">at first;</span>
   <span id="f000097">but,</span>
   <span id="f000098">when we grew at home with it,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and there seemed no necessity for so much ceremony,</span>
   <span id="f000100">we used to walk straight through it.</span>
   <span id="f000101">You could not say it was ever much in the way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000102">It was a gentle,</span>
   <span id="f000103">harmless,</span>
   <span id="f000104">old ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000105">too,</span>
   <span id="f000106">and we all felt very sorry for it,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and pitied it.</span>
   <span id="f000108">The women folk,</span>
   <span id="f000109">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000110">made quite a pet of it,</span>
   <span id="f000111">for a while.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Its faithfulness touched them so.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">But as time went on,</span>
   <span id="f000114">it grew to be a bit a bore.</span>
   <span id="f000115">You see it was full of sadness.</span>
   <span id="f000116">There was nothing cheerful or genial about it.</span>
   <span id="f000117">You felt sorry for it,</span>
   <span id="f000118">but it irritated you.</span>
   <span id="f000119">It would sit on the stairs and cry for hours at a stretch;</span>
   <span id="f000120">and,</span>
   <span id="f000121">whenever we woke up in the night,</span>
   <span id="f000122">one was sure to hear it pottering about the passages and in and out of the different rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000123">moaning and sighing,</span>
   <span id="f000124">so that we could not get to sleep again very easily.</span>
   <span id="f000125">And when we had a party on,</span>
   <span id="f000126">it would come and sit outside the drawing-room door,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and sob all the time.</span>
   <span id="f000128">It did not do anybody any harm exactly,</span>
   <span id="f000129">but it cast a gloom over the whole affair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000131">I’m getting sick of this old fool,” said the Pater,</span>
   <span id="f000132">one evening</span>
   <span id="f000133">(the Dad can be very blunt,</span>
   <span id="f000134">when he is put out,</span>
   <span id="f000135">as you know),</span>
   <span id="f000136">after Johnson had been more of a nuisance than usual,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and had spoiled a good game of whist,</span>
   <span id="f000138">by sitting up the chimney and groaning,</span>
   <span id="f000139">till nobody knew what were trumps or what suit had been led,</span>
   <span id="f000140">even.</span>
   <span id="f000141">“We shall have to get rid of him,</span>
   <span id="f000142">somehow or other.</span>
   <span id="f000143">I wish I knew how to do it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“Well,” said the Mater,</span>
   <span id="f000145">“depend upon it,</span>
   <span id="f000146">you’ll never see the last of him until he’s found Emily’s grave.</span>
   <span id="f000147">That’s what he is after.</span>
   <span id="f000148">You find Emily’s grave,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and put him on to that,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and he’ll stop there.</span>
   <span id="f000151">That’s the only thing to do.</span>
   <span id="f000152">You mark my words.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">The idea seemed reasonable,</span>
   <span id="f000154">but the difficulty in the way was that we none of us knew where Emily’s grave was any more than the ghost of Johnson himself did.</span>
   <span id="f000155">The Governor suggested palming off some other Emily’s grave upon the poor thing,</span>
   <span id="f000156">but,</span>
   <span id="f000157">as luck would have it,</span>
   <span id="f000158">there did not seem to have been an Emily of any sort buried anywhere for miles round.</span>
   <span id="f000159">I never came across a neighbourhood so utterly destitute of dead Emilies.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000160">I thought for a bit,</span>
   <span id="f000161">and then I hazarded a suggestion myself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“Couldn’t we fake up something for the old chap?” I queried.</span>
   <span id="f000163">“He seems a simple-minded old sort.</span>
   <span id="f000164">He might take it in.</span>
   <span id="f000165">Anyhow,</span>
   <span id="f000166">we could but try.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000167">“By Jove,</span>
   <span id="f000168">so we will,” exclaimed my father;</span>
   <span id="f000169">and the very next morning we had the workmen in,</span>
   <span id="f000170">and fixed up a little mound at the bottom of the orchard with a tombstone over it,</span>
   <span id="f000171">bearing the following inscription:-</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000172">SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF EMILY HER LAST WORDS WERE - “TELL JOHNSON I LOVE HIM”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000173">“That ought to fetch him,” mused the Dad as he surveyed the work when finished.</span>
   <span id="f000174">“I am sure I hope it does.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000175">It did!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">We lured him down there that very night;</span>
   <span id="f000177">and – well,</span>
   <span id="f000178">there,</span>
   <span id="f000179">it was one of the most pathetic things I have ever seen,</span>
   <span id="f000180">the way Johnson sprang upon that tombstone and wept.</span>
   <span id="f000181">Dad and old Squibbins,</span>
   <span id="f000182">the gardener,</span>
   <span id="f000183">cried like children when they saw it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">Johnson has never troubled us any more in the house since then.</span>
   <span id="f000185">It spends every night now,</span>
   <span id="f000186">sobbing on the grave,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and seems quite happy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“There still?” Oh yes.</span>
   <span id="f000189">I’ll take you fellows down and show you it,</span>
   <span id="f000190">next time you come to our place:</span>
   <span id="f000191">10 p.m.</span>
   <span id="f000192">to 4 a.m.</span>
   <span id="f000193">are its general hours,</span>
   <span id="f000194">10 to 2 on Saturdays.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000195">Interlude — The Doctor's Story</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000196">It made me cry very much,</span>
   <span id="f000197">that story,</span>
   <span id="f000198">young Biffles told it with so much feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000199">We were all a little thoughtful after it,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and I noticed even the old Doctor covertly wipe away a tear.</span>
   <span id="f000201">Uncle John brewed another bowl of punch,</span>
   <span id="f000202">however,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and we gradually grew more resigned.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">The Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000205">indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000206">after a while became almost cheerful,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and told us about the ghost of one of his patients.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">I cannot give you his story.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I wish I could.</span>
   <span id="f000210">They all said afterwards that it was the best of the lot – the most ghastly and terrible – but I could not make any sense of it myself.</span>
   <span id="f000211">It seemed so incomplete.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">He began all right and then something seemed to happen,</span>
   <span id="f000213">and then he was finishing it.</span>
   <span id="f000214">I cannot make out what he did with the middle of the story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000215">It ended up,</span>
   <span id="f000216">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000217">however,</span>
   <span id="f000218">with somebody finding something;</span>
   <span id="f000219">and that put Mr.&#160;Coombes in mind of a very curious affair that took place at an old Mill,</span>
   <span id="f000220">once kept by his brother-in-law.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">Mr.&#160;Coombes said he would tell us his story,</span>
   <span id="f000222">and before anybody could stop him,</span>
   <span id="f000223">he had begun.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000224">Mr Coombes said the story was called -</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000225">THE HAUNTED MILL OR THE RUINED HOME</span>
   <span id="f000226">(Mr.&#160;Coombes’s Story)</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000227">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000228">you all know my brother-in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000229">Mr.&#160;Parkins</span>
   <span id="f000230">(began Mr.&#160;Coombes,</span>
   <span id="f000231">taking the long clay pipe from his mouth,</span>
   <span id="f000232">and putting it behind his ear:</span>
   <span id="f000233">we did not know his brother-in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000234">but we said we did,</span>
   <span id="f000235">so as to save time),</span>
   <span id="f000236">and you know of course that he once took a lease of an old Mill in Surrey,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and went to live there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">Now you must know that,</span>
   <span id="f000239">years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000240">this very mill had been occupied by a wicked old miser,</span>
   <span id="f000241">who died there,</span>
   <span id="f000242">leaving – so it was rumoured- -all his money hidden somewhere about the place.</span>
   <span id="f000243">Naturally enough,</span>
   <span id="f000244">every one who had since come to live at the mill had tried to find the treasure;</span>
   <span id="f000245">but none had ever succeeded,</span>
   <span id="f000246">and the local wiseacres said that nobody ever would,</span>
   <span id="f000247">unless the ghost of the miserly miller should,</span>
   <span id="f000248">one day,</span>
   <span id="f000249">take a fancy to one of the tenants,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and disclose to him the secret of the hiding-place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">My brother-in-law did not attach much importance to the story,</span>
   <span id="f000252">regarding it as an old woman’s tale,</span>
   <span id="f000253">and,</span>
   <span id="f000254">unlike his predecessors,</span>
   <span id="f000255">made no attempt whatever to discover the hidden gold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">“Unless business was very different then from what it is now,” said my brother-in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000257">“I don’t see how a miller could very well have saved anything,</span>
   <span id="f000258">however much of a miser he might have been:</span>
   <span id="f000259">at all events,</span>
   <span id="f000260">not enough to make it worth the trouble of looking for it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000262">he could not altogether get rid of the idea of that treasure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">One night he went to bed.</span>
   <span id="f000264">There was nothing very extraordinary about that,</span>
   <span id="f000265">I admit.</span>
   <span id="f000266">He often did go to bed of a night.</span>
   <span id="f000267">What WAS remarkable,</span>
   <span id="f000268">however,</span>
   <span id="f000269">was that exactly as the clock of the village church chimed the last stroke of twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000270">my brother-in-law woke up with a start,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and felt himself quite unable to go to sleep again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000272">Joe</span>
   <span id="f000273">(his Christian name was Joe)</span>
   <span id="f000274">sat up in bed,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and looked around.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000276">At the foot of the bed something stood very still,</span>
   <span id="f000277">wrapped in shadow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">It moved into the moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and then my brother-in-law saw that it was the figure of a wizened little old man,</span>
   <span id="f000280">in knee-breeches and a pig-tail.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">In an instant the story of the hidden treasure and the old miser flashed across his mind.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000282">“He’s come to show me where it’s hid,” thought my brother-in-law;</span>
   <span id="f000283">and he resolved that he would not spend all this money on himself,</span>
   <span id="f000284">but would devote a small percentage of it towards doing good to others.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">The apparition moved towards the door:</span>
   <span id="f000286">my brother-in-law put on his trousers and followed it.</span>
   <span id="f000287">The ghost went downstairs into the kitchen,</span>
   <span id="f000288">glided over and stood in front of the hearth,</span>
   <span id="f000289">sighed and disappeared.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">Next morning,</span>
   <span id="f000291">Joe had a couple of bricklayers in,</span>
   <span id="f000292">and made them haul out the stove and pull down the chimney,</span>
   <span id="f000293">while he stood behind with a potato-sack in which to put the gold.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">They knocked down half the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000295">and never found so much as a four- penny bit.</span>
   <span id="f000296">My brother-in-law did not know what to think.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000297">The next night the old man appeared again,</span>
   <span id="f000298">and again led the way into the kitchen.</span>
   <span id="f000299">This time,</span>
   <span id="f000300">however,</span>
   <span id="f000301">instead of going to the fireplace,</span>
   <span id="f000302">it stood more in the middle of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000303">and sighed there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000305">I see what he means now,” said my brother-in-law to himself;</span>
   <span id="f000306">“it’s under the floor.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Why did the old idiot go and stand up against the stove,</span>
   <span id="f000308">so as to make me think it was up the chimney?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000309">They spent the next day in taking up the kitchen floor;</span>
   <span id="f000310">but the only thing they found was a three-pronged fork,</span>
   <span id="f000311">and the handle of that was broken.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000312">On the third night,</span>
   <span id="f000313">the ghost reappeared,</span>
   <span id="f000314">quite unabashed,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and for a third time made for the kitchen.</span>
   <span id="f000316">Arrived there,</span>
   <span id="f000317">it looked up at the ceiling and vanished.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">“Umph!</span>
   <span id="f000319">he don’t seem to have learned much sense where he’s been to,” muttered Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000320">as he trotted back to bed;</span>
   <span id="f000321">“I should have thought he might have done that at first.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000323">there seemed no doubt now where the treasure lay,</span>
   <span id="f000324">and the first thing after breakfast they started pulling down the ceiling.</span>
   <span id="f000325">They got every inch of the ceiling down,</span>
   <span id="f000326">and they took up the boards of the room above.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">They discovered about as much treasure as you would expect to find in an empty quart-pot.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">On the fourth night,</span>
   <span id="f000329">when the ghost appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000330">as usual,</span>
   <span id="f000331">my brother- in-law was so wild that he threw his boots at it;</span>
   <span id="f000332">and the boots passed through the body,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and broke a looking-glass.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">On the fifth night,</span>
   <span id="f000335">when Joe awoke,</span>
   <span id="f000336">as he always did now at twelve,</span>
   <span id="f000337">the ghost was standing in a dejected attitude,</span>
   <span id="f000338">looking very miserable.</span>
   <span id="f000339">There was an appealing look in its large sad eyes that quite touched my brother-in-law.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000340">“After all,” he thought,</span>
   <span id="f000341">“perhaps the silly chap’s doing his best.</span>
   <span id="f000342">Maybe he has forgotten where he really did put it,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and is trying to remember.</span>
   <span id="f000344">I’ll give him another chance.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000345">The ghost appeared grateful and delighted at seeing Joe prepare to follow him,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and led the way into the attic,</span>
   <span id="f000347">pointed to the ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f000348">and vanished.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000349">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000350">he’s hit it this time,</span>
   <span id="f000351">I do hope,” said my brother-in-law;</span>
   <span id="f000352">and next day they set to work to take the roof off the place.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">It took them three days to get the roof thoroughly off,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and all they found was a bird’s nest;</span>
   <span id="f000355">after securing which they covered up the house with tarpaulins,</span>
   <span id="f000356">to keep it dry.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000357">You might have thought that would have cured the poor fellow of looking for treasure.</span>
   <span id="f000358">But it didn’t.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">He said there must be something in it all,</span>
   <span id="f000360">or the ghost would never keep on coming as it did;</span>
   <span id="f000361">and that,</span>
   <span id="f000362">having gone so far,</span>
   <span id="f000363">he would go on to the end,</span>
   <span id="f000364">and solve the mystery,</span>
   <span id="f000365">cost what it might.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000366">Night after night,</span>
   <span id="f000367">he would get out of his bed and follow that spectral old fraud about the house.</span>
   <span id="f000368">Each night,</span>
   <span id="f000369">the old man would indicate a different place;</span>
   <span id="f000370">and,</span>
   <span id="f000371">on each following day,</span>
   <span id="f000372">my brother- in-law would proceed to break up the mill at the point indicated,</span>
   <span id="f000373">and look for the treasure.</span>
   <span id="f000374">At the end of three weeks,</span>
   <span id="f000375">there was not a room in the mill fit to live in.</span>
   <span id="f000376">Every wall had been pulled down,</span>
   <span id="f000377">every floor had been taken up,</span>
   <span id="f000378">every ceiling had had a hole knocked in it.</span>
   <span id="f000379">And then,</span>
   <span id="f000380">as suddenly as they had begun,</span>
   <span id="f000381">the ghost’s visits ceased;</span>
   <span id="f000382">and my brother-in-law was left in peace,</span>
   <span id="f000383">to rebuild the place at his leisure.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“What induced the old image to play such a silly trick upon a family man and a ratepayer?” Ah!</span>
   <span id="f000385">that’s just what I cannot tell you.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">Some said that the ghost of the wicked old man had done it to punish my brother-in-law for not believing in him at first;</span>
   <span id="f000387">while others held that the apparition was probably that of some deceased local plumber and glazier,</span>
   <span id="f000388">who would naturally take an interest in seeing a house knocked about and spoilt.</span>
   <span id="f000389">But nobody knew anything for certain.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000390">Interlude</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000391">We had some more punch,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and then the curate told us a story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000393">I could not make head or tail of the curate’s story,</span>
   <span id="f000394">so I cannot retail it to you.</span>
   <span id="f000395">We none of us could make head or tail of that story.</span>
   <span id="f000396">It was a good story enough,</span>
   <span id="f000397">so far as material went.</span>
   <span id="f000398">There seemed to be an enormous amount of plot,</span>
   <span id="f000399">and enough incident to have made a dozen novels.</span>
   <span id="f000400">I never before heard a story containing so much incident,</span>
   <span id="f000401">nor one dealing with so many varied characters.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">I should say that every human being our curate had ever known or met,</span>
   <span id="f000403">or heard of,</span>
   <span id="f000404">was brought into that story.</span>
   <span id="f000405">There were simply hundreds of them.</span>
   <span id="f000406">Every five seconds he would introduce into the tale a completely fresh collection of characters accompanied by a brand new set of incidents.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">This was the sort of story it was:-</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000408">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000409">then,</span>
   <span id="f000410">my uncle went into the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000411">and got his gun,</span>
   <span id="f000412">but,</span>
   <span id="f000413">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000414">it wasn’t there,</span>
   <span id="f000415">and Scroggins said he didn’t believe it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000416">“Didn’t believe what?</span>
   <span id="f000417">Who’s Scroggins?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“Scroggins!</span>
   <span id="f000419">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000420">why he was the other man,</span>
   <span id="f000421">you know – it was wife.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">“WHAT was his wife – what’s SHE got to do with it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000423">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000424">that’s what I’m telling you.</span>
   <span id="f000425">It was she that found the hat.</span>
   <span id="f000426">She’d come up with her cousin to London – her cousin was my sister- in-law,</span>
   <span id="f000427">and the other niece had married a man named Evans,</span>
   <span id="f000428">and Evans,</span>
   <span id="f000429">after it was all over,</span>
   <span id="f000430">had taken the box round to Mr.&#160;Jacobs’,</span>
   <span id="f000431">because Jacobs’ father had seen the man,</span>
   <span id="f000432">when he was alive,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and when he was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000434">Joseph – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000435">“Now look here,</span>
   <span id="f000436">never you mind Evans and the box;</span>
   <span id="f000437">what’s become of your uncle and the gun?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000438">“The gun!</span>
   <span id="f000439">What gun?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000441">the gun that your uncle used to keep in the garden,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and that wasn’t there.</span>
   <span id="f000443">What did he do with it?</span>
   <span id="f000444">Did he kill any of these people with it – these Jacobses and Evanses and Scrogginses and Josephses?</span>
   <span id="f000445">Because,</span>
   <span id="f000446">if so,</span>
   <span id="f000447">it was a good and useful work,</span>
   <span id="f000448">and we should enjoy hearing about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“No – oh no – how could he?</span>
   <span id="f000450">– he had been built up alive in the wall,</span>
   <span id="f000451">you know,</span>
   <span id="f000452">and when Edward IV spoke to the abbot about it,</span>
   <span id="f000453">my sister said that in her then state of health she could not and would not,</span>
   <span id="f000454">as it was endangering the child’s life.</span>
   <span id="f000455">So they christened it Horatio,</span>
   <span id="f000456">after her own son,</span>
   <span id="f000457">who had been killed at Waterloo before he was born,</span>
   <span id="f000458">and Lord Napier himself said – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“Look here,</span>
   <span id="f000460">do you know what you are talking about?” we asked him at this point.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">He said “No,” but he knew it was every word of it true,</span>
   <span id="f000462">because his aunt had seen it herself.</span>
   <span id="f000463">Whereupon we covered him over with the tablecloth,</span>
   <span id="f000464">and he went to sleep.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">And then Uncle told us a story.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">Uncle said his was a real story.</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000467">The Ghost of the Blue Chamber<br />(My Uncle's Story)</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000468">“I don’t want to make you fellows nervous,” began my uncle in a peculiarly impressive,</span>
   <span id="f000469">not to say blood-curdling,</span>
   <span id="f000470">tone of voice,</span>
   <span id="f000471">“and if you would rather that I did not mention it,</span>
   <span id="f000472">I won’t;</span>
   <span id="f000473">but,</span>
   <span id="f000474">as a matter of fact,</span>
   <span id="f000475">this very house,</span>
   <span id="f000476">in which we are now sitting,</span>
   <span id="f000477">is haunted.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000478">“You don’t say that!” exclaimed Mr.&#160;Coombes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000479">“What’s the use of your saying I don’t say it when I have just said it?” retorted my uncle somewhat pettishly.</span>
   <span id="f000480">“You do talk so foolishly.</span>
   <span id="f000481">I tell you the house is haunted.</span>
   <span id="f000482">Regularly on Christmas Eve the Blue Chamber [they called the room next to the nursery the ’blue chamber,’ at my uncle’s,</span>
   <span id="f000483">most of the toilet service being of that shade] is haunted by the ghost of a sinful man – a man who once killed a Christmas wait with a lump of coal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000484">“How did he do it?” asked Mr.&#160;Coombes,</span>
   <span id="f000485">with eager anxiousness.</span>
   <span id="f000486">“Was it difficult?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000487">“I do not know how he did it,” replied my uncle;</span>
   <span id="f000488">“he did not explain the process.</span>
   <span id="f000489">The wait had taken up a position just inside the front gate,</span>
   <span id="f000490">and was singing a ballad.</span>
   <span id="f000491">It is presumed that,</span>
   <span id="f000492">when he opened his mouth for B flat,</span>
   <span id="f000493">the lump of coal was thrown by the sinful man from one of the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000494">and that it went down the wait’s throat and choked him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000495">“You want to be a good shot,</span>
   <span id="f000496">but it is certainly worth trying,” murmured Mr.&#160;Coombes thoughtfully.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000497">“But that was not his only crime,</span>
   <span id="f000498">alas!” added my uncle.</span>
   <span id="f000499">“Prior to that he had killed a solo cornet-player.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000500">“No!</span>
   <span id="f000501">Is that really a fact?” exclaimed Mr.&#160;Coombes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000502">“Of course it’s a fact,” answered my uncle testily;</span>
   <span id="f000503">"at all events,</span>
   <span id="f000504">as much a fact as you can expect to get in a case of this sort.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000505">“How very captious you are this evening.</span>
   <span id="f000506">The circumstantial evidence was overwhelming.</span>
   <span id="f000507">The poor fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000508">the cornet-player,</span>
   <span id="f000509">had been in the neighbourhood barely a month.</span>
   <span id="f000510">Old Mr.&#160;Bishop,</span>
   <span id="f000511">who kept the ’Jolly Sand Boys’ at the time,</span>
   <span id="f000512">and from whom I had the story,</span>
   <span id="f000513">said he had never known a more hard-working and energetic solo cornet-player.</span>
   <span id="f000514">He,</span>
   <span id="f000515">the cornet-player,</span>
   <span id="f000516">only knew two tunes,</span>
   <span id="f000517">but Mr.&#160;Bishop said that the man could not have played with more vigour,</span>
   <span id="f000518">or for more hours in a day,</span>
   <span id="f000519">if he had known forty.</span>
   <span id="f000520">The two tunes he did play were ”Annie Laurie“ and ”Home,</span>
   <span id="f000521">Sweet Home";</span>
   <span id="f000522">and as regarded his performance of the former melody,</span>
   <span id="f000523">Mr.&#160;Bishop said that a mere child could have told what it was meant for.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000524">“This musician – this poor,</span>
   <span id="f000525">friendless artist used to come regularly and play in this street just opposite for two hours every evening.</span>
   <span id="f000526">One evening he was seen,</span>
   <span id="f000527">evidently in response to an invitation,</span>
   <span id="f000528">going into this very house,</span>
   <span id="f000529">BUT WAS NEVER SEEN COMING OUT OF IT!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000530">“Did the townsfolk try offering any reward for his recovery?” asked Mr.&#160;Coombes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000531">“Not a ha’penny,” replied my uncle.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">“Another summer,” continued my uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000533">"a German band visited here,</span>
   <span id="f000534">intending – so they announced on their arrival – to stay till the autumn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000535">“On the second day from their arrival,</span>
   <span id="f000536">the whole company,</span>
   <span id="f000537">as fine and healthy a body of men as one could wish to see,</span>
   <span id="f000538">were invited to dinner by this sinful man,</span>
   <span id="f000539">and,</span>
   <span id="f000540">after spending the whole of the next twenty-four hours in bed,</span>
   <span id="f000541">left the town a broken and dyspeptic crew;</span>
   <span id="f000542">the parish doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000543">who had attended them,</span>
   <span id="f000544">giving it as his opinion that it was doubtful if they would,</span>
   <span id="f000545">any of them,</span>
   <span id="f000546">be fit to play an air again.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000547">“You – you don’t know the recipe,</span>
   <span id="f000548">do you?” asked Mr.&#160;Coombes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000549">“Unfortunately I do not,” replied my uncle;</span>
   <span id="f000550">"but the chief ingredient was said to have been railway refreshment-room pork-pie.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000551">“I forget the man’s other crimes,” my uncle went on;</span>
   <span id="f000552">"I used to know them all at one time,</span>
   <span id="f000553">but my memory is not what it was.</span>
   <span id="f000554">I do not,</span>
   <span id="f000555">however,</span>
   <span id="f000556">believe I am doing his memory an injustice in believing that he was not entirely unconnected with the death,</span>
   <span id="f000557">and subsequent burial,</span>
   <span id="f000558">of a gentleman who used to play the harp with his toes;</span>
   <span id="f000559">and that neither was he altogether unresponsible for the lonely grave of an unknown stranger who had once visited the neighbourhood,</span>
   <span id="f000560">an Italian peasant lad,</span>
   <span id="f000561">a performer upon the barrel- organ.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000562">“Every Christmas Eve,” said my uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000563">cleaving with low impressive tones the strange awed silence that,</span>
   <span id="f000564">like a shadow,</span>
   <span id="f000565">seemed to have slowly stolen into and settled down upon the room,</span>
   <span id="f000566">"the ghost of this sinful man haunts the Blue Chamber,</span>
   <span id="f000567">in this very house.</span>
   <span id="f000568">There,</span>
   <span id="f000569">from midnight until cock-crow,</span>
   <span id="f000570">amid wild muffled shrieks and groans and mocking laughter and the ghostly sound of horrid blows,</span>
   <span id="f000571">it does fierce phantom fight with the spirits of the solo cornet- player and the murdered wait,</span>
   <span id="f000572">assisted at intervals,</span>
   <span id="f000573">by the shades of the German band;</span>
   <span id="f000574">while the ghost of the strangled harpist plays mad ghostly melodies with ghostly toes on the ghost of a broken harp.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000575">Uncle said the Blue Chamber was comparatively useless as a sleeping-apartment on Christmas Eve.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000576">“Hark!” said uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000577">raising a warning hand towards the ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f000578">while we held our breath,</span>
   <span id="f000579">and listened;</span>
   <span id="f000580">“Hark!</span>
   <span id="f000581">I believe they are at it now – in the BLUE CHAMBER!”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

