<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000001">The Blue Chamber</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000002">I rose up,</span>
   <span id="f000003">and said that I would sleep in the Blue Chamber.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000004">Before I tell you my own story,</span>
   <span id="f000005">however – the story of what happened in the Blue Chamber – I would wish to preface it with -</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000006">A Personal Explanation</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000007">I feel a good deal of hesitation about telling you this story of my own.</span>
   <span id="f000008">You see it is not a story like the other stories that I have been telling you,</span>
   <span id="f000009">or rather that Teddy Biffles,</span>
   <span id="f000010">Mr.&#160;Coombes,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and my uncle have been telling you:</span>
   <span id="f000012">it is a true story.</span>
   <span id="f000013">It is not a story told by a person sitting round a fire on Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000014">drinking whisky punch:</span>
   <span id="f000015">it is a record of events that actually happened.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000016">Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000017">it is not a ’story’ at all,</span>
   <span id="f000018">in the commonly accepted meaning of the word:</span>
   <span id="f000019">it is a report.</span>
   <span id="f000020">It is,</span>
   <span id="f000021">I feel,</span>
   <span id="f000022">almost out of place in a book of this kind.</span>
   <span id="f000023">It is more suitable to a biography,</span>
   <span id="f000024">or an English history.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">There is another thing that makes it difficult for me to tell you this story,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and that is,</span>
   <span id="f000027">that it is all about myself.</span>
   <span id="f000028">In telling you this story,</span>
   <span id="f000029">I shall have to keep on talking about myself;</span>
   <span id="f000030">and talking about ourselves is what we modern-day authors have a strong objection to doing.</span>
   <span id="f000031">If we literary men of the new school have one praiseworthy yearning more ever present to our minds than another it is the yearning never to appear in the slightest degree egotistical.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">I myself,</span>
   <span id="f000033">so I am told,</span>
   <span id="f000034">carry this coyness – this shrinking reticence concerning anything connected with my own personality,</span>
   <span id="f000035">almost too far;</span>
   <span id="f000036">and people grumble at me because of it.</span>
   <span id="f000037">People come to me and say -</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000039">now,</span>
   <span id="f000040">why don’t you talk about yourself a bit?</span>
   <span id="f000041">That’s what we want to read about.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Tell us something about yourself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">But I have always replied,</span>
   <span id="f000044">“No.” It is not that I do not think the subject an interesting one.</span>
   <span id="f000045">I cannot myself conceive of any topic more likely to prove fascinating to the world as a whole,</span>
   <span id="f000046">or at all events to the cultured portion of it.</span>
   <span id="f000047">But I will not do it,</span>
   <span id="f000048">on principle.</span>
   <span id="f000049">It is inartistic,</span>
   <span id="f000050">and it sets a bad example to the younger men.</span>
   <span id="f000051">Other writers</span>
   <span id="f000052">(a few of them)</span>
   <span id="f000053">do it,</span>
   <span id="f000054">I know;</span>
   <span id="f000055">but I will not – not as a rule.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">Under ordinary circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000057">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000058">I should not tell you this story at all.</span>
   <span id="f000059">I should say to myself,</span>
   <span id="f000060">“No!</span>
   <span id="f000061">It is a good story,</span>
   <span id="f000062">it is a moral story,</span>
   <span id="f000063">it is a strange,</span>
   <span id="f000064">weird,</span>
   <span id="f000065">enthralling sort of a story;</span>
   <span id="f000066">and the public,</span>
   <span id="f000067">I know,</span>
   <span id="f000068">would like to hear it;</span>
   <span id="f000069">and I should like to tell it to them;</span>
   <span id="f000070">but it is all about myself – about what I said,</span>
   <span id="f000071">and what I saw,</span>
   <span id="f000072">and what I did,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and I cannot do it.</span>
   <span id="f000074">My retiring,</span>
   <span id="f000075">anti-egotistical nature will not permit me to talk in this way about myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">But the circumstances surrounding this story are not ordinary,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and there are reasons prompting me,</span>
   <span id="f000078">in spite of my modesty,</span>
   <span id="f000079">to rather welcome the opportunity of relating it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">As I stated at the beginning,</span>
   <span id="f000081">there has been unpleasantness in our family over this party of ours,</span>
   <span id="f000082">and,</span>
   <span id="f000083">as regards myself in particular,</span>
   <span id="f000084">and my share in the events I am now about to set forth,</span>
   <span id="f000085">gross injustice has been done me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">As a means of replacing my character in its proper light – of dispelling the clouds of calumny and misconception with which it has been darkened,</span>
   <span id="f000087">I feel that my best course is to give a simple,</span>
   <span id="f000088">dignified narration of the plain facts,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and allow the unprejudiced to judge for themselves.</span>
   <span id="f000090">My chief object,</span>
   <span id="f000091">I candidly confess,</span>
   <span id="f000092">is to clear myself from unjust aspersion.</span>
   <span id="f000093">Spurred by this motive – and I think it is an honourable and a right motive – I find I am enabled to overcome my usual repugnance to talking about myself,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and can thus tell -</span></p>
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000095">My Own Story</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000096">As soon as my uncle had finished his story,</span>
   <span id="f000097">I,</span>
   <span id="f000098">as I have already told you,</span>
   <span id="f000099">rose up and said that <em>I</em> would sleep in the Blue Chamber that very night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“Never!” cried my uncle,</span>
   <span id="f000101">springing up.</span>
   <span id="f000102">“You shall not put yourself in this deadly peril.</span>
   <span id="f000103">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000104">the bed is not made.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">“Never mind the bed,” I replied.</span>
   <span id="f000106">“I have lived in furnished apartments for gentlemen,</span>
   <span id="f000107">and have been accustomed to sleep on beds that have never been made from one year’s end to the other.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Do not thwart me in my resolve.</span>
   <span id="f000109">I am young,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and have had a clear conscience now for over a month.</span>
   <span id="f000111">The spirits will not harm me.</span>
   <span id="f000112">I may even do them some little good,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and induce them to be quiet and go away.</span>
   <span id="f000114">Besides,</span>
   <span id="f000115">I should like to see the show.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">Saying which,</span>
   <span id="f000117">I sat down again.</span>
   <span id="f000118">(How Mr.&#160;Coombes came to be in my chair,</span>
   <span id="f000119">instead of at the other side of the room,</span>
   <span id="f000120">where he had been all the evening;</span>
   <span id="f000121">and why he never offered to apologise when I sat right down on top of him;</span>
   <span id="f000122">and why young Biffles should have tried to palm himself off upon me as my Uncle John,</span>
   <span id="f000123">and induced me,</span>
   <span id="f000124">under that erroneous impression,</span>
   <span id="f000125">to shake him by the hand for nearly three minutes,</span>
   <span id="f000126">and tell him that I had always regarded him as father,</span>
   <span id="f000127">– are matters that,</span>
   <span id="f000128">to this day,</span>
   <span id="f000129">I have never been able to fully understand.)</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000130">They tried to dissuade me from what they termed my foolhardy enterprise,</span>
   <span id="f000131">but I remained firm,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and claimed my privilege.</span>
   <span id="f000133">I was ’the guest.’ ’The guest’ always sleeps in the haunted chamber on Christmas Eve;</span>
   <span id="f000134">it is his perquisite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">They said that if I put it on that footing,</span>
   <span id="f000136">they had,</span>
   <span id="f000137">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000138">no answer;</span>
   <span id="f000139">and they lighted a candle for me,</span>
   <span id="f000140">and accompanied me upstairs in a body.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">Whether elevated by the feeling that I was doing a noble action,</span>
   <span id="f000142">or animated by a mere general consciousness of rectitude,</span>
   <span id="f000143">is not for me to say,</span>
   <span id="f000144">but I went upstairs that night with remarkable buoyancy.</span>
   <span id="f000145">It was as much as I could do to stop at the landing when I came to it;</span>
   <span id="f000146">I felt I wanted to go on up to the roof.</span>
   <span id="f000147">But,</span>
   <span id="f000148">with the help of the banisters,</span>
   <span id="f000149">I restrained my ambition,</span>
   <span id="f000150">wished them all good- night,</span>
   <span id="f000151">and went in and shut the door.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">Things began to go wrong with me from the very first.</span>
   <span id="f000153">The candle tumbled out of the candlestick before my hand was off the lock.</span>
   <span id="f000154">It kept on tumbling out of the candlestick,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and every time I picked put it up and put it in,</span>
   <span id="f000156">it tumbled out again:</span>
   <span id="f000157">I never saw such a slippery candle.</span>
   <span id="f000158">I gave up attempting to use the candlestick at last,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and carried the candle about in my hand;</span>
   <span id="f000160">and,</span>
   <span id="f000161">even then,</span>
   <span id="f000162">it would not keep upright.</span>
   <span id="f000163">So I got wild and threw it out of window,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and undressed and went to bed in the dark.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">I did not go to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000166">– I did not feel sleepy at all,</span>
   <span id="f000167">– I lay on my back,</span>
   <span id="f000168">looking up at the ceiling,</span>
   <span id="f000169">and thinking of things.</span>
   <span id="f000170">I wish I could remember some of the ideas that came to me as I lay there,</span>
   <span id="f000171">because they were so amusing.</span>
   <span id="f000172">I laughed at them myself till the bed shook.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">I had been lying like this for half an hour or so,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and had forgotten all about the ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000175">when,</span>
   <span id="f000176">on casually casting my eyes round the room,</span>
   <span id="f000177">I noticed for the first time a singularly contented-looking phantom,</span>
   <span id="f000178">sitting in the easy-chair by the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000179">smoking the ghost of a long clay pipe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000180">I fancied for the moment,</span>
   <span id="f000181">as most people would under similar circumstances,</span>
   <span id="f000182">that I must be dreaming.</span>
   <span id="f000183">I sat up,</span>
   <span id="f000184">and rubbed my eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">No!</span>
   <span id="f000186">It was a ghost,</span>
   <span id="f000187">clear enough.</span>
   <span id="f000188">I could see the back of the chair through his body.</span>
   <span id="f000189">He looked over towards me,</span>
   <span id="f000190">took the shadowy pipe from his lips,</span>
   <span id="f000191">and nodded.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">The most surprising part of the whole thing to me was that I did not feel in the least alarmed.</span>
   <span id="f000193">If anything,</span>
   <span id="f000194">I was rather pleased to see him.</span>
   <span id="f000195">It was company.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000196">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000197">“Good evening.</span>
   <span id="f000198">It’s been a cold day!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">He said he had not noticed it himself,</span>
   <span id="f000200">but dared say I was right.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">We remained silent for a few seconds,</span>
   <span id="f000202">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000203">wishing to put it pleasantly,</span>
   <span id="f000204">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000205">“I believe I have the honour of addressing the ghost of the gentleman who had the accident with the wait?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000206">He smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and said it was very good of me to remember it.</span>
   <span id="f000208">One wait was not much to boast of,</span>
   <span id="f000209">but still,</span>
   <span id="f000210">every little helped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">I was somewhat staggered at his answer.</span>
   <span id="f000212">I had expected a groan of remorse.</span>
   <span id="f000213">The ghost appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000214">on the contrary,</span>
   <span id="f000215">to be rather conceited over the business.</span>
   <span id="f000216">I thought that,</span>
   <span id="f000217">as he had taken my reference to the wait so quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000218">perhaps he would not be offended if I questioned him about the organ-grinder.</span>
   <span id="f000219">I felt curious about that poor boy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000220">“Is it true,” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000221">“that you had a hand in the death of that Italian peasant lad who came to the town once with a barrel-organ that played nothing but Scotch airs?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">He quite fired up.</span>
   <span id="f000223">“Had a hand in it!” he exclaimed indignantly.</span>
   <span id="f000224">“Who has dared to pretend that he assisted me?</span>
   <span id="f000225">I murdered the youth myself.</span>
   <span id="f000226">Nobody helped me.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Alone I did it.</span>
   <span id="f000228">Show me the man who says I didn’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">I calmed him.</span>
   <span id="f000230">I assured him that I had never,</span>
   <span id="f000231">in my own mind,</span>
   <span id="f000232">doubted that he was the real and only assassin,</span>
   <span id="f000233">and I went on and asked him what he had done with the body of the cornet-player he had killed.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000235">“To which one may you be alluding?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000236">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000237">were there any more then?” I inquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">He smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000239">and gave a little cough.</span>
   <span id="f000240">He said he did not like to appear to be boasting,</span>
   <span id="f000241">but that,</span>
   <span id="f000242">counting trombones,</span>
   <span id="f000243">there were seven.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">“Dear me!” I replied,</span>
   <span id="f000245">“you must have had quite a busy time of it,</span>
   <span id="f000246">one way and another.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000247">He said that perhaps he ought not to be the one to say so,</span>
   <span id="f000248">but that really,</span>
   <span id="f000249">speaking of ordinary middle-society,</span>
   <span id="f000250">he thought there were few ghosts who could look back upon a life of more sustained usefulness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000251">He puffed away in silence for a few seconds,</span>
   <span id="f000252">while I sat watching him.</span>
   <span id="f000253">I had never seen a ghost smoking a pipe before,</span>
   <span id="f000254">that I could remember,</span>
   <span id="f000255">and it interested me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000256">I asked him what tobacco he used,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and he replied,</span>
   <span id="f000258">“The ghost of cut cavendish,</span>
   <span id="f000259">as a rule.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">He explained that the ghost of all the tobacco that a man smoked in life belonged to him when he became dead.</span>
   <span id="f000261">He said he himself had smoked a good deal of cut cavendish when he was alive,</span>
   <span id="f000262">so that he was well supplied with the ghost of it now.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">I observed that it was a useful thing to know that,</span>
   <span id="f000264">and I made up my mind to smoke as much tobacco as ever I could before I died.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">I thought I might as well start at once,</span>
   <span id="f000266">so I said I would join him in a pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and he said,</span>
   <span id="f000268">“Do,</span>
   <span id="f000269">old man”;</span>
   <span id="f000270">and I reached over and got out the necessary paraphernalia from my coat pocket and lit up.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">We grew quite chummy after that,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and he told me all his crimes.</span>
   <span id="f000273">He said he had lived next door once to a young lady who was learning to play the guitar,</span>
   <span id="f000274">while a gentleman who practised on the bass- viol lived opposite.</span>
   <span id="f000275">And he,</span>
   <span id="f000276">with fiendish cunning,</span>
   <span id="f000277">had introduced these two unsuspecting young people to one another,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and had persuaded them to elope with each other against their parents’ wishes,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and take their musical instruments with them;</span>
   <span id="f000280">and they had done so,</span>
   <span id="f000281">and,</span>
   <span id="f000282">before the honeymoon was over,</span>
   <span id="f000283">SHE had broken his head with the bass-viol,</span>
   <span id="f000284">and HE had tried to cram the guitar down her throat,</span>
   <span id="f000285">and had injured her for life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">My friend said he used to lure muffin-men into the passage and then stuff them with their own wares till they burst and died.</span>
   <span id="f000287">He said he had quieted eighteen that way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">Young men and women who recited long and dreary poems at evening parties,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and callow youths who walked about the streets late at night,</span>
   <span id="f000290">playing concertinas,</span>
   <span id="f000291">he used to get together and poison in batches of ten,</span>
   <span id="f000292">so as to save expense;</span>
   <span id="f000293">and park orators and temperance lecturers he used to shut up six in a small room with a glass of water and a collection-box apiece,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and let them talk each other to death.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000295">It did one good to listen to him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">I asked him when he expected the other ghosts – the ghosts of the wait and the cornet-player,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and the German band that Uncle John had mentioned.</span>
   <span id="f000298">He smiled,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and said they would never come again,</span>
   <span id="f000300">any of them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000301">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000302">“Why;</span>
   <span id="f000303">isn’t it true,</span>
   <span id="f000304">then,</span>
   <span id="f000305">that they meet you here every Christmas Eve for a row?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000306">He replied that it WAS true.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Every Christmas Eve,</span>
   <span id="f000308">for twenty-five years,</span>
   <span id="f000309">had he and they fought in that room;</span>
   <span id="f000310">but they would never trouble him nor anybody else again.</span>
   <span id="f000311">One by one,</span>
   <span id="f000312">had he laid them out,</span>
   <span id="f000313">spoilt,</span>
   <span id="f000314">and utterly useless for all haunting purposes.</span>
   <span id="f000315">He had finished off the last German-band ghost that very evening,</span>
   <span id="f000316">just before I came upstairs,</span>
   <span id="f000317">and had thrown what was left of it out through the slit between the window-sashes.</span>
   <span id="f000318">He said it would never be worth calling a ghost again.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">“I suppose you will still come yourself,</span>
   <span id="f000320">as usual?” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000321">“They would be sorry to miss you,</span>
   <span id="f000322">I know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000323">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000324">I don’t know,” he replied;</span>
   <span id="f000325">“there’s nothing much to come for now.</span>
   <span id="f000326">Unless,” he added kindly,</span>
   <span id="f000327">“YOU are going to be here.</span>
   <span id="f000328">I’ll come if you will sleep here next Christmas Eve.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">“I have taken a liking to you,” he continued;</span>
   <span id="f000330">“you don’t fly off,</span>
   <span id="f000331">screeching,</span>
   <span id="f000332">when you see a party,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and your hair doesn’t stand on end.</span>
   <span id="f000334">You’ve no idea,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000335">“how sick I am of seeing people’s hair standing on end.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">He said it irritated him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000337">Just then a slight noise reached us from the yard below,</span>
   <span id="f000338">and he started and turned deathly black.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000339">“You are ill,” I cried,</span>
   <span id="f000340">springing towards him;</span>
   <span id="f000341">“tell me the best thing to do for you.</span>
   <span id="f000342">Shall I drink some brandy,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and give you the ghost of it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">He remained silent,</span>
   <span id="f000345">listening intently for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000346">and then he gave a sigh of relief,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and the shade came back to his cheek.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">“It’s all right,” he murmured;</span>
   <span id="f000349">“I was afraid it was the cock.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000350">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000351">it’s too early for that,” I said.</span>
   <span id="f000352">“Why,</span>
   <span id="f000353">it’s only the middle of the night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000354">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000355">that doesn’t make any difference to those cursed chickens,” he replied bitterly.</span>
   <span id="f000356">“They would just as soon crow in the middle of the night as at any other time – sooner,</span>
   <span id="f000357">if they thought it would spoil a chap’s evening out.</span>
   <span id="f000358">I believe they do it on purpose.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000359">He said a friend of his,</span>
   <span id="f000360">the ghost of a man who had killed a water- rate collector,</span>
   <span id="f000361">used to haunt a house in Long Acre,</span>
   <span id="f000362">where they kept fowls in the cellar,</span>
   <span id="f000363">and every time a policeman went by and flashed his bull’s-eye down the grating,</span>
   <span id="f000364">the old cock there would fancy it was the sun,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and start crowing like mad;</span>
   <span id="f000366">when,</span>
   <span id="f000367">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000368">the poor ghost had to dissolve,</span>
   <span id="f000369">and it would,</span>
   <span id="f000370">in consequence,</span>
   <span id="f000371">get back home sometimes as early as one o’clock in the morning,</span>
   <span id="f000372">swearing fearfully because it had only been out for an hour.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000373">I agreed that it seemed very unfair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000374">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000375">it’s an absurd arrangement altogether,” he continued,</span>
   <span id="f000376">quite angrily.</span>
   <span id="f000377">“I can’t imagine what our old man could have been thinking of when he made it.</span>
   <span id="f000378">As I have said to him,</span>
   <span id="f000379">over and over again,</span>
   <span id="f000380">’Have a fixed time,</span>
   <span id="f000381">and let everybody stick to it – say four o’clock in summer,</span>
   <span id="f000382">and six in winter.</span>
   <span id="f000383">Then one would know what one was about.’”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000384">“How do you manage when there isn’t any cock handy?” I inquired.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000385">He was on the point of replying,</span>
   <span id="f000386">when again he started and listened.</span>
   <span id="f000387">This time I distinctly heard Mr.&#160;Bowles’s cock,</span>
   <span id="f000388">next door,</span>
   <span id="f000389">crow twice.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">“There you are,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000391">rising and reaching for his hat;</span>
   <span id="f000392">“that’s the sort of thing we have to put up with.</span>
   <span id="f000393">What IS the time?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">I looked at my watch,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and found it was half-past three.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000396">“I thought as much,” he muttered.</span>
   <span id="f000397">“I’ll wring that blessed bird’s neck if I get hold of it.” And he prepared to go.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000398">“If you can wait half a minute,” I said,</span>
   <span id="f000399">getting out of bed,</span>
   <span id="f000400">“I’ll go a bit of the way with you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“It’s very good of you,” he rejoined,</span>
   <span id="f000402">pausing,</span>
   <span id="f000403">“but it seems unkind to drag you out.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">“Not at all,” I replied;</span>
   <span id="f000405">“I shall like a walk.” And I partially dressed myself,</span>
   <span id="f000406">and took my umbrella;</span>
   <span id="f000407">and he put his arm through mine,</span>
   <span id="f000408">and we went out together.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000409">Just by the gate we met Jones,</span>
   <span id="f000410">one of the local constables.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000411">“Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000412">Jones,” I said</span>
   <span id="f000413">(I always feel affable at Christmas- time).</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000414">“Good-night,</span>
   <span id="f000415">sir,” answered the man a little gruffly,</span>
   <span id="f000416">I thought.</span>
   <span id="f000417">“May I ask what you’re a-doing of?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000419">it’s all right,” I responded,</span>
   <span id="f000420">with a wave of my umbrella;</span>
   <span id="f000421">“I’m just seeing my friend part of the way home.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000422">He said,</span>
   <span id="f000423">“What friend?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000424">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000425">ah,</span>
   <span id="f000426">of course,” I laughed;</span>
   <span id="f000427">“I forgot.</span>
   <span id="f000428">He’s invisible to you.</span>
   <span id="f000429">He is the ghost of the gentleman that killed the wait.</span>
   <span id="f000430">I’m just going to the corner with him.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000431">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000432">I don’t think I would,</span>
   <span id="f000433">if I was you,</span>
   <span id="f000434">sir,” said Jones severely.</span>
   <span id="f000435">“If you take my advice,</span>
   <span id="f000436">you’ll say good-bye to your friend here,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and go back indoors.</span>
   <span id="f000438">Perhaps you are not aware that you are walking about with nothing on but a night-shirt and a pair of boots and an opera-hat.</span>
   <span id="f000439">Where’s your trousers?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000440">I did not like the man’s manner at all.</span>
   <span id="f000441">I said,</span>
   <span id="f000442">“Jones!</span>
   <span id="f000443">I don’t wish to have to report you,</span>
   <span id="f000444">but it seems to me you’ve been drinking.</span>
   <span id="f000445">My trousers are where a man’s trousers ought to be – on his legs.</span>
   <span id="f000446">I distinctly remember putting them on.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000447">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000448">you haven’t got them on now,” he retorted.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000449">“I beg your pardon,” I replied.</span>
   <span id="f000450">“I tell you I have;</span>
   <span id="f000451">I think I ought to know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000452">“I think so,</span>
   <span id="f000453">too,” he answered,</span>
   <span id="f000454">“but you evidently don’t.</span>
   <span id="f000455">Now you come along indoors with me,</span>
   <span id="f000456">and don’t let’s have any more of it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000457">Uncle John came to the door at this point,</span>
   <span id="f000458">having been awaked,</span>
   <span id="f000459">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000460">by the altercation;</span>
   <span id="f000461">and,</span>
   <span id="f000462">at the same moment,</span>
   <span id="f000463">Aunt Maria appeared at the window in her nightcap.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000464">I explained the constable’s mistake to them,</span>
   <span id="f000465">treating the matter as lightly as I could,</span>
   <span id="f000466">so as not to get the man into trouble,</span>
   <span id="f000467">and I turned for confirmation to the ghost.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">He was gone!</span>
   <span id="f000469">He had left me without a word – without even saying good-bye!</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000470">It struck me as so unkind,</span>
   <span id="f000471">his having gone off in that way,</span>
   <span id="f000472">that I burst into tears;</span>
   <span id="f000473">and Uncle John came out,</span>
   <span id="f000474">and led me back into the house.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000475">On reaching my room,</span>
   <span id="f000476">I discovered that Jones was right.</span>
   <span id="f000477">I had not put on my trousers,</span>
   <span id="f000478">after all.</span>
   <span id="f000479">They were still hanging over the bed-rail.</span>
   <span id="f000480">I suppose,</span>
   <span id="f000481">in my anxiety not to keep the ghost waiting,</span>
   <span id="f000482">I must have forgotten them.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000483">Such are the plain facts of the case,</span>
   <span id="f000484">out of which it must,</span>
   <span id="f000485">doubtless,</span>
   <span id="f000486">to the healthy,</span>
   <span id="f000487">charitable mind appear impossible that calumny could spring.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000488">But it has.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000489">Persons – I say ’persons’ – have professed themselves unable to understand the simple circumstances herein narrated,</span>
   <span id="f000490">except in the light of explanations at once misleading and insulting.</span>
   <span id="f000491">Slurs have been cast and aspersions made on me by those of my own flesh and blood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000492">But I bear no ill-feeling.</span>
   <span id="f000493">I merely,</span>
   <span id="f000494">as I have said,</span>
   <span id="f000495">set forth this statement for the purpose of clearing my character from injurious suspicion.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

