<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">A Country Christmas</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part I</span></h2>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000003">“A handful of good life is worth a bushel of learning.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000004">Dear Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000005">– I have a brilliant idea,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and at once hasten to share it with you.</span>
   <span id="f000007">Three weeks ago I came up here to the wilds of Vermont to visit my old aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000008">also to get a little quiet and distance in which to survey certain new prospects which have opened before me,</span>
   <span id="f000009">and to decide whether I will marry a millionnaire and become a queen of society,</span>
   <span id="f000010">or remain ’the charming Miss Vaughan’ and wait till the conquering hero comes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000011">Aunt Plumy begs me to stay over Christmas,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and I have consented,</span>
   <span id="f000013">as I always dread the formal dinner with which my guardian celebrates the day.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">My brilliant idea is this.</span>
   <span id="f000015">I’m going to make it a real old-fashioned frolic,</span>
   <span id="f000016">and won’t you come and help me?</span>
   <span id="f000017">You will enjoy it immensely I am sure,</span>
   <span id="f000018">for Aunt is a character.</span>
   <span id="f000019">Cousin Saul worth seeing,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and Ruth a far prettier girl than any of the city rose-buds coming out this season.</span>
   <span id="f000021">Bring Leonard Randal along with you to take notes for his new books;</span>
   <span id="f000022">then it will be fresher and truer than the last,</span>
   <span id="f000023">clever as it was.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000024">The air is delicious up here,</span>
   <span id="f000025">society amusing,</span>
   <span id="f000026">this old farmhouse full of treasures,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and your bosom friend pining to embrace you.</span>
   <span id="f000028">Just telegraph yes or no,</span>
   <span id="f000029">and we will expect you on Tuesday.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">Ever yours,</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000031">“SOPHIE VAUGHAN.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000032">“They will both come,</span>
   <span id="f000033">for they are as tired of city life and as fond of change as I am,” said the writer of the above,</span>
   <span id="f000034">as she folded her letter and went to get it posted without delay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">Aunt Plumy was in the great kitchen making pies;</span>
   <span id="f000036">a jolly old soul,</span>
   <span id="f000037">with a face as ruddy as a winter apple,</span>
   <span id="f000038">a cheery voice,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and the kindest heart that ever beat under a gingham gown.</span>
   <span id="f000040">Pretty Ruth was chopping the mince,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and singing so gaily as she worked that the four-and-twenty immortal blackbirds could not have put more music into a pie than she did.</span>
   <span id="f000042">Saul was piling wood into the big oven,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and Sophie paused a moment on the threshold to look at him,</span>
   <span id="f000044">for she always enjoyed the sight of this stalwart cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000045">whom she likened to a Norse viking,</span>
   <span id="f000046">with his fair hair and beard,</span>
   <span id="f000047">keen blue eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and six feet of manly height,</span>
   <span id="f000049">with shoulders that looked broad and strong enough to bear any burden.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">His back was toward her,</span>
   <span id="f000051">but he saw her first,</span>
   <span id="f000052">and turned his flushed face to meet her,</span>
   <span id="f000053">with the sudden lighting up it always showed when she approached.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000054">“I’ve done it,</span>
   <span id="f000055">Aunt;</span>
   <span id="f000056">and now I want Saul to post the letter,</span>
   <span id="f000057">so we can get a speedy answer.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000058">“Just as soon as I can hitch up,</span>
   <span id="f000059">cousin;” and Saul pitched in his last log,</span>
   <span id="f000060">looking ready to put a girdle round the earth in less than forty minutes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000062">dear,</span>
   <span id="f000063">I ain’t the least mite of objection,</span>
   <span id="f000064">as long as it pleases you.</span>
   <span id="f000065">I guess we can stan’ it ef your city folks can.</span>
   <span id="f000066">I presume to say things will look kind of sing’lar to ’em,</span>
   <span id="f000067">but I s’pose that’s what they come for.</span>
   <span id="f000068">Idle folks do dreadful queer things to amuse ’em;” and Aunt Plumy leaned on the rolling-pin to smile and nod with a shrewd twinkle of her eye,</span>
   <span id="f000069">as if she enjoyed the prospect as much as Sophie did.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“I shall be afraid of ’em,</span>
   <span id="f000071">but I’ll try not to make you ashamed of me,” said Ruth,</span>
   <span id="f000072">who loved her charming cousin even more than she admired her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000073">“No fear of that,</span>
   <span id="f000074">dear.</span>
   <span id="f000075">They will be the awkward ones,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and you must set them at ease by just being your simple selves,</span>
   <span id="f000077">and treating them as if they were every-day people.</span>
   <span id="f000078">Nell is very nice and jolly when she drops her city ways,</span>
   <span id="f000079">as she must here.</span>
   <span id="f000080">She will enter into the spirit of the fun at once,</span>
   <span id="f000081">and I know you’ll all like her.</span>
   <span id="f000082">Mr.&#160;Randal is rather the worse for too much praise and petting,</span>
   <span id="f000083">as successful people are apt to be,</span>
   <span id="f000084">so a little plain talk and rough work will do him good.</span>
   <span id="f000085">He is a true gentleman in spite of his airs and elegance,</span>
   <span id="f000086">and he will take it all in good part,</span>
   <span id="f000087">if you treat him like a man and not a lion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“I’ll see to him,” said Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000089">who had listened with great interest to the latter part of Sophie’s speech,</span>
   <span id="f000090">evidently suspecting a lover,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and enjoying the idea of supplying him with a liberal amount of “plain talk and rough work.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">“I’ll keep ’em busy if that’s what they need,</span>
   <span id="f000093">for there will be a sight to do,</span>
   <span id="f000094">and we can’t get help easy up here.</span>
   <span id="f000095">Our darters don’t hire out much.</span>
   <span id="f000096">Work to home till they marry,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and don’t go gaddin’ ’round gettin’ their heads full of foolish notions,</span>
   <span id="f000098">and forgettin’ all the useful things their mothers taught ’em.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">Aunt Plumy glanced at Ruth as she spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000100">and a sudden color in the girl’s cheeks proved that the words hit certain ambitious fancies of this pretty daughter of the house of Basset.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“They shall do their parts and not be a trouble;</span>
   <span id="f000102">I’ll see to that,</span>
   <span id="f000103">for you certainly are the dearest aunt in the world to let me take possession of you and yours in this way,” cried Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000104">embracing the old lady with warmth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">Saul wished the embrace could be returned by proxy,</span>
   <span id="f000106">as his mother’s hands were too floury to do more than hover affectionately round the delicate face that looked so fresh and young beside her wrinkled one.</span>
   <span id="f000107">As it could not be done,</span>
   <span id="f000108">he fled temptation and “hitched up” without delay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000109">The three women laid their heads together in his absence,</span>
   <span id="f000110">and Sophie’s plan grew apace,</span>
   <span id="f000111">for Ruth longed to see a real novelist and a fine lady,</span>
   <span id="f000112">and Aunt Plumy,</span>
   <span id="f000113">having plans of her own to further,</span>
   <span id="f000114">said “Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000115">dear,” to every suggestion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000116">Great was the arranging and adorning that went on that day in the old farmhouse,</span>
   <span id="f000117">for Sophie wanted her friends to enjoy this taste of country pleasures,</span>
   <span id="f000118">and knew just what additions would be indispensable to their comfort;</span>
   <span id="f000119">what simple ornaments would be in keeping with the rustic stage on which she meant to play the part of prima donna.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">Next day a telegram arrived accepting the invitation,</span>
   <span id="f000121">for both the lady and the lion.</span>
   <span id="f000122">They would arrive that afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000123">as little preparation was needed for this impromptu journey,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the novelty of which was its chief charm to these <em>blasé</em> people.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000125">Saul wanted to get out the double sleigh and span,</span>
   <span id="f000126">for he prided himself on his horses,</span>
   <span id="f000127">and a fall of snow came most opportunely to beautify the landscape and add a new pleasure to Christmas festivities.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000128">But Sophie declared that the old yellow sleigh,</span>
   <span id="f000129">with Punch,</span>
   <span id="f000130">the farm-horse,</span>
   <span id="f000131">must be used,</span>
   <span id="f000132">as she wished everything to be in keeping;</span>
   <span id="f000133">and Saul obeyed,</span>
   <span id="f000134">thinking he had never seen anything prettier than his cousin when she appeared in his mother’s old-fashioned camlet cloak and blue silk pumpkin hood.</span>
   <span id="f000135">He looked remarkably well himself in his fur coat,</span>
   <span id="f000136">with hair and beard brushed till they shone like spun gold,</span>
   <span id="f000137">a fresh color in his cheek,</span>
   <span id="f000138">and the sparkle of amusement in his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000139">while excitement gave his usually grave face the animation it needed to be handsome.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000140">Away they jogged in the creaking old sleigh,</span>
   <span id="f000141">leaving Ruth to make herself pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000142">with a fluttering heart,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and Aunt Plumy to dish up a late dinner fit to tempt the most fastidious appetite.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“She has not come for us,</span>
   <span id="f000145">and there is not even a stage to take us up.</span>
   <span id="f000146">There must be some mistake,” said Emily Herrick,</span>
   <span id="f000147">as she looked about the shabby little station where they were set down.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“That is the never-to-be-forgotten face of our fair friend,</span>
   <span id="f000149">but the bonnet of her grandmother,</span>
   <span id="f000150">if my eyes do not deceive me,” answered Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000151">turning to survey the couple approaching in the rear.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000152">“Sophie Vaughan,</span>
   <span id="f000153">what do you mean by making such a guy of yourself?” exclaimed Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000154">as she kissed the smiling face in the hood and stared at the quaint cloak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“I’m dressed for my part,</span>
   <span id="f000156">and I intend to keep it up.</span>
   <span id="f000157">This is our host,</span>
   <span id="f000158">my cousin,</span>
   <span id="f000159">Saul Basset.</span>
   <span id="f000160">Come to the sleigh at once,</span>
   <span id="f000161">he will see to your luggage,” said Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000162">painfully conscious of the antiquity of her array as her eyes rested on Emily’s pretty hat and mantle,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and the masculine elegance of Randal’s wraps.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000164">They were hardly tucked in when Saul appeared with a valise in one hand and a large trunk on his shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000165">swinging both on to a wood-sled that stood near by as easily as if they had been hand-bags.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">“That is your hero,</span>
   <span id="f000167">is it?</span>
   <span id="f000168">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000169">he looks it,</span>
   <span id="f000170">calm and comely,</span>
   <span id="f000171">taciturn and tall,” said Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000172">in a tone of approbation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000173">“He should have been named Samson or Goliath;</span>
   <span id="f000174">though I believe it was the small man who slung things about and turned out the hero in the end,” added Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000175">surveying the performance with interest and a touch of envy,</span>
   <span id="f000176">for much pen work had made his own hands as delicate as a woman’s.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">“Saul doesn’t live in a glass house,</span>
   <span id="f000178">so stones won’t hurt him.</span>
   <span id="f000179">Remember sarcasm is forbidden and sincerity the order of the day.</span>
   <span id="f000180">You are country folks now,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and it will do you good to try their simple,</span>
   <span id="f000182">honest ways for a few days.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000183">Sophie had no time to say more,</span>
   <span id="f000184">for Saul came up and drove off with the brief remark that the baggage would “be along right away.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000185">Being hungry,</span>
   <span id="f000186">cold and tired,</span>
   <span id="f000187">the guests were rather silent during the short drive,</span>
   <span id="f000188">but Aunt Plumy’s hospitable welcome,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and the savory fumes of the dinner awaiting them,</span>
   <span id="f000190">thawed the ice and won their hearts at once.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“Isn’t it nice?</span>
   <span id="f000192">Aren’t you glad you came?” asked Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000193">as she led her friends into the parlor,</span>
   <span id="f000194">which she had redeemed from its primness by putting bright chintz curtains to the windows,</span>
   <span id="f000195">hemlock boughs over the old portraits,</span>
   <span id="f000196">a china bowl of flowers on the table,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and a splendid fire on the wide hearth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000198">“It is perfectly jolly,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and this is the way I begin to enjoy myself,” answered Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000200">sitting down upon the home-made rug,</span>
   <span id="f000201">whose red flannel roses bloomed in a blue list basket.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000202">“If I may add a little smoke to your glorious fire,</span>
   <span id="f000203">it will be quite perfect.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Won’t Samson join me?” asked Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000205">waiting for permission,</span>
   <span id="f000206">cigar-case in hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">“He has no small vices,</span>
   <span id="f000208">but you may indulge yours,” answered Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000209">from the depths of a grandmotherly chair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000210">Emily glanced up at her friend as if she caught a new tone in her voice,</span>
   <span id="f000211">then turned to the fire again with a wise little nod,</span>
   <span id="f000212">as if confiding some secret to the reflection of herself in the bright brass andiron.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000213">“His Delilah does not take this form.</span>
   <span id="f000214">I wait with interest to discover if he has one.</span>
   <span id="f000215">What a daisy the sister is.</span>
   <span id="f000216">Does she ever speak?” asked Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000217">trying to lounge on the haircloth sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000218">where he was slipping uncomfortably about.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">“Oh yes,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and sings like a bird.</span>
   <span id="f000221">You shall hear her when she gets over her shyness.</span>
   <span id="f000222">But no trifling,</span>
   <span id="f000223">mind you,</span>
   <span id="f000224">for it is a jealously guarded daisy and not to be picked by any idle hand,” said Sophie warningly,</span>
   <span id="f000225">as she recalled Ruth’s blushes and Randal’s compliments at dinner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“I should expect to be annihilated by the big brother if I attempted any but the ’sincerest’ admiration and respect.</span>
   <span id="f000227">Have no fears on that score,</span>
   <span id="f000228">but tell us what is to follow this superb dinner.</span>
   <span id="f000229">An apple bee,</span>
   <span id="f000230">spinning match,</span>
   <span id="f000231">husking party,</span>
   <span id="f000232">or primitive pastime of some sort,</span>
   <span id="f000233">I have no doubt.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“As you are new to our ways I am going to let you rest this evening.</span>
   <span id="f000235">We will sit about the fire and tell stories.</span>
   <span id="f000236">Aunt is a master hand at that,</span>
   <span id="f000237">and Saul has reminiscences of the war that are well worth hearing if we can only get him to tell them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000239">he was there,</span>
   <span id="f000240">was he?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000242">all through it,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and is Major Basset,</span>
   <span id="f000244">though he likes his plain name best.</span>
   <span id="f000245">He fought splendidly and had several wounds,</span>
   <span id="f000246">though only a mere boy when he earned his scars and bars.</span>
   <span id="f000247">I’m very proud of him for that,” and Sophie looked so as she glanced at the photograph of a stripling in uniform set in the place of honor on the high mantel-piece.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">“We must stir him up and hear these martial memories.</span>
   <span id="f000249">I want some new incidents,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and shall book all I can get,</span>
   <span id="f000251">if I may.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000252">Here Randal was interrupted by Saul himself,</span>
   <span id="f000253">who came in with an armful of wood for the fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000254">“Anything more I can do for you,</span>
   <span id="f000255">cousin?” he asked,</span>
   <span id="f000256">surveying the scene with a rather wistful look.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000257">“Only come and sit with us and talk over war times with Mr.&#160;Randal.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000258">“When I’ve foddered the cattle and done my chores I’d be pleased to.</span>
   <span id="f000259">What regiment were you in?” asked Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000260">looking down from his lofty height upon the slender gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000261">who answered briefly,</span>
   <span id="f000262">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000263">“In none.</span>
   <span id="f000264">I was abroad at the time.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000265">“Sick?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000266">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000267">busy with a novel.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">“Took four years to write it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">“I was obliged to travel and study before I could finish it.</span>
   <span id="f000270">These things take more time to work up than outsiders would believe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“Seems to me our war was a finer story than any you could find in Europe,</span>
   <span id="f000272">and the best way to study it would be to fight it out.</span>
   <span id="f000273">If you want heroes and heroines you’d have found plenty of ’em there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“I have no doubt of it,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and shall be glad to atone for my seeming neglect of them by hearing about your own exploits.</span>
   <span id="f000276">Major.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000277">Randal hoped to turn the conversation gracefully,</span>
   <span id="f000278">but Saul was not to be caught,</span>
   <span id="f000279">and left the room,</span>
   <span id="f000280">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000281">with a gleam of fun in his eye,</span>
   <span id="f000282">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000283">“I can’t stop now;</span>
   <span id="f000284">heroes can wait,</span>
   <span id="f000285">pigs can’t.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000286">The girls laughed at this sudden descent from the sublime to the ridiculous,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and Randal joined them,</span>
   <span id="f000288">feeling his condescension had not been unobserved.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p001.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track02">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

