<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">A Country Christmas</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part II</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">As if drawn by the merry sound Aunt Plumy appeared,</span>
   <span id="f000004">and being established in the rocking-chair fell to talking as easily as if she had known her guests for years.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000005">“Laugh away,</span>
   <span id="f000006">young folks,</span>
   <span id="f000007">that’s better for digestion than any of the messes people use.</span>
   <span id="f000008">Are you troubled with dyspepsy,</span>
   <span id="f000009">dear?</span>
   <span id="f000010">You didn’t seem to take your vittles very hearty,</span>
   <span id="f000011">so I mistrusted you was delicate,” she said,</span>
   <span id="f000012">looking at Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000013">whose pale cheeks and weary eyes told the story of late hours and a gay life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000014">“I haven’t eaten so much for years,</span>
   <span id="f000015">I assure you,</span>
   <span id="f000016">Mrs.&#160;Basset;</span>
   <span id="f000017">but it was impossible to taste all your good things.</span>
   <span id="f000018">I am not dyspeptic,</span>
   <span id="f000019">thank you,</span>
   <span id="f000020">but a little seedy and tired,</span>
   <span id="f000021">for I’ve been working rather hard lately.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">“Be you a teacher?</span>
   <span id="f000023">or have you a ’perfessun,’ as they call a trade nowadays?” asked the old lady in a tone of kindly interest,</span>
   <span id="f000024">which prevented a laugh at the idea of Emily’s being anything but a beauty and a belle.</span>
   <span id="f000025">The others kept their countenances with difficulty,</span>
   <span id="f000026">and she answered demurely,</span>
   <span id="f000027">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000028">“I have no trade as yet,</span>
   <span id="f000029">but I dare say I should be happier if I had.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000030">“Not a doubt on’t,</span>
   <span id="f000031">my dear.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">“What would you recommend,</span>
   <span id="f000033">ma’am?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000034">“I should say dressmakin’ was rather in your line,</span>
   <span id="f000035">ain’t it?</span>
   <span id="f000036">Your clothes is dreadful tasty,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and do you credit if you made ’em yourself.” and Aunt Plumy surveyed with feminine interest the simple elegance of the travelling dress which was the masterpiece of a French modiste.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000038">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000039">ma’am,</span>
   <span id="f000040">I don’t make my own things,</span>
   <span id="f000041">I’m too lazy.</span>
   <span id="f000042">It takes so much time and trouble to select them that I have only strength left to wear them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000043">“Housekeepin’ used to be the favorite perfessun in my day.</span>
   <span id="f000044">It ain’t fashionable now,</span>
   <span id="f000045">but it needs a sight of trainin’ to be perfect in all that’s required,</span>
   <span id="f000046">and I’ve an idee it would be a sight healthier and usefuller than the paintin’ and music and fancy work young women do nowadays.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000047">“But every one wants some beauty in their lives,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and each one has a different sphere to fill,</span>
   <span id="f000049">if one can only find it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">“’Pears to me there’s no call for so much art when nater is full of beauty for them that can see and love it.</span>
   <span id="f000051">As for ’spears’ and so on,</span>
   <span id="f000052">I’ve a notion if each of us did up our own little chores smart and thorough we needn’t go wanderin’ round to set the world to rights.</span>
   <span id="f000053">That’s the Lord’s job,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and I presume to say He can do it without any advice of ourn.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000055">Something in the homely but true words seemed to rebuke the three listeners for wasted lives,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and for a moment there was no sound but the crackle of the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000057">the brisk click of the old lady’s knitting needles,</span>
   <span id="f000058">and Ruth’s voice singing overhead as she made ready to join the party below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“To judge by that sweet sound you have done one of your ’chores’ very beautifully,</span>
   <span id="f000060">Mrs.&#160;Basset,</span>
   <span id="f000061">and in spite of the follies of our day,</span>
   <span id="f000062">succeeded in keeping one girl healthy,</span>
   <span id="f000063">happy and unspoiled,” said Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000064">looking up into the peaceful old face with her own lovely one full of respect and envy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000065">“I do hope so,</span>
   <span id="f000066">for she’s my ewe lamb,</span>
   <span id="f000067">the last of four dear little girls;</span>
   <span id="f000068">all the rest are in the burying ground ’side of father.</span>
   <span id="f000069">I don’t expect to keep her long,</span>
   <span id="f000070">and don’t ought to regret when I lose her,</span>
   <span id="f000071">for Saul is the best of sons;</span>
   <span id="f000072">but daughters is more to mothers somehow,</span>
   <span id="f000073">and I always yearn over girls that is left without a broodin’ wing to keep ’em safe and warm in this world of tribulation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">Aunt Plumy laid her hand on Sophie’s head as she spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000075">with such a motherly look that both girls drew nearer,</span>
   <span id="f000076">and Randal resolved to put her in a book without delay.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000077">Presently Saul returned with little Ruth hanging on his arm and shyly nestling near him as he took the three-cornered leathern chair in the chimney nook,</span>
   <span id="f000078">while she sat on a stool close by.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000079">“Now the circle is complete and the picture perfect.</span>
   <span id="f000080">Don’t light the lamps yet,</span>
   <span id="f000081">please,</span>
   <span id="f000082">but talk away and let me make a mental study of you.</span>
   <span id="f000083">I seldom find so charming a scene to paint,” said Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000084">beginning to enjoy himself immensely,</span>
   <span id="f000085">with a true artist’s taste for novelty and effect.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“Tell us about your book,</span>
   <span id="f000087">for we have been reading it as it comes out in the magazine,</span>
   <span id="f000088">and are much exercised about how it’s going to end,” began Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000089">gallantly throwing himself into the breach,</span>
   <span id="f000090">for a momentary embarrassment fell upon the women at the idea of sitting for their portraits before they were ready.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000091">“Do you really read my poor serial up here,</span>
   <span id="f000092">and do me the honor to like it?” asked the novelist,</span>
   <span id="f000093">both flattered and amused,</span>
   <span id="f000094">for his work was of the aesthetic sort,</span>
   <span id="f000095">microscopic studies of character,</span>
   <span id="f000096">and careful pictures of modern life.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000097">“Sakes alive,</span>
   <span id="f000098">why shouldn’t we?” cried Aunt Plumy.</span>
   <span id="f000099">“We have some eddication,</span>
   <span id="f000100">though we ain’t very genteel.</span>
   <span id="f000101">We’ve got a town libry,</span>
   <span id="f000102">kep up by the women mostly,</span>
   <span id="f000103">with fairs and tea parties and so on.</span>
   <span id="f000104">We have all the magazines reg’lar,</span>
   <span id="f000105">and Saul reads out the pieces while Ruth sews and I knit,</span>
   <span id="f000106">my eyes bein’ poor.</span>
   <span id="f000107">Our winter is long and evenins would be kinder lonesome if we didn’t have novils and newspapers to cheer ’em up.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“I am very glad I can help to beguile them for you.</span>
   <span id="f000109">Now tell me what you honestly think of my work?</span>
   <span id="f000110">Criticism is always valuable,</span>
   <span id="f000111">and I should really like yours,</span>
   <span id="f000112">Mrs.&#160;Basset,” said Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000113">wondering what the good woman would make of the delicate analysis and worldly wisdom on which he prided himself.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">Short work,</span>
   <span id="f000115">as Aunt Plumy soon showed him,</span>
   <span id="f000116">for she rather enjoyed freeing her mind at all times,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and decidedly resented the insinuation that country folk could not appreciate light literature as well as city people.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000118">“I ain’t no great of a jedge about anything but nat’ralness of books,</span>
   <span id="f000119">and it really does seem as if some of your men and women was dreadful uncomfortable creaters.</span>
   <span id="f000120">’Pears to me it ain’t wise to be always pickin’ ourselves to pieces and pryin’ into things that ought to come gradual by way of experience and the visitations of Providence.</span>
   <span id="f000121">Flowers won’t blow worth a cent ef you pull ’em open.</span>
   <span id="f000122">Better wait and see what they can do alone.</span>
   <span id="f000123">I do relish the smart sayins,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the odd ways of furrin parts,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and the sarcastic slaps at folkses weak spots.</span>
   <span id="f000126">But massy knows,</span>
   <span id="f000127">we can’t live on spice-cake and Charlotte Ruche,</span>
   <span id="f000128">and I do feel as if books was more sustainin’ ef they was full of every-day people and things,</span>
   <span id="f000129">like good bread and butter.</span>
   <span id="f000130">Them that goes to the heart and ain’t soon forgotten is the kind I hanker for.</span>
   <span id="f000131">Mis Terry’s books now,</span>
   <span id="f000132">and Mis Stowe’s,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and Dickens’s Christmas pieces,</span>
   <span id="f000134">– them is real sweet and cheerin’,</span>
   <span id="f000135">to my mind.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000136">As the blunt old lady paused it was evident she had produced a sensation,</span>
   <span id="f000137">for Saul smiled at the fire,</span>
   <span id="f000138">Ruth looked dismayed at this assault upon one of her idols,</span>
   <span id="f000139">and the young ladies were both astonished and amused at the keenness of the new critic who dared express what they had often felt.</span>
   <span id="f000140">Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000141">however,</span>
   <span id="f000142">was quite composed and laughed good-naturedly,</span>
   <span id="f000143">though secretly feeling as if a pail of cold water had been poured over him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“Many thanks,</span>
   <span id="f000145">madam;</span>
   <span id="f000146">you have discovered my weak point with surprising accuracy.</span>
   <span id="f000147">But you see I cannot help ’picking folks to pieces,’ as you have expressed it;</span>
   <span id="f000148">that is my gift,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and it has its attractions,</span>
   <span id="f000150">as the sale of my books will testify.</span>
   <span id="f000151">People like the ’spice-bread,’ and as that is the only sort my oven will bake,</span>
   <span id="f000152">I must keep on in order to make my living.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">“So rumsellers say,</span>
   <span id="f000154">but it ain’t a good trade to foller,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and I’d chop wood ’fore I’d earn my livin’ harmin’ my feller man.</span>
   <span id="f000156">’Pears to me I’d let my oven cool a spell,</span>
   <span id="f000157">and hunt up some homely,</span>
   <span id="f000158">happy folks to write about;</span>
   <span id="f000159">folks that don’t borrer trouble and go lookin’ for holes in their neighbors’ coats,</span>
   <span id="f000160">but take their lives brave and cheerful;</span>
   <span id="f000161">and rememberin’ we are all human,</span>
   <span id="f000162">have pity on the weak,</span>
   <span id="f000163">and try to be as full of mercy,</span>
   <span id="f000164">patience and lovin’ kindness as Him who made us.</span>
   <span id="f000165">That sort of a book would do a heap of good;</span>
   <span id="f000166">be real warmin’ and strengthening and make them that read it love the man that wrote it,</span>
   <span id="f000167">and remember him when he was dead and gone.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000168">“I wish I could!” and Randal meant what he said,</span>
   <span id="f000169">for he was as tired of his own style as a watch-maker might be of the magnifying glass through which he strains his eyes all day.</span>
   <span id="f000170">He knew that the heart was left out of his work,</span>
   <span id="f000171">and that both mind and soul were growing morbid with dwelling on the faulty,</span>
   <span id="f000172">absurd and metaphysical phases of life and character.</span>
   <span id="f000173">He often threw down his pen and vowed he would write no more;</span>
   <span id="f000174">but he loved ease and the books brought money readily;</span>
   <span id="f000175">he was accustomed to the stimulant of praise and missed it as the toper misses his wine,</span>
   <span id="f000176">so that which had once been a pleasure to himself and others was fast becoming a burden and a disappointment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">The brief pause which followed his involuntary betrayal of discontent was broken by Ruth,</span>
   <span id="f000178">who exclaimed,</span>
   <span id="f000179">with a girlish enthusiasm that overpowered girlish bashfulness,</span>
   <span id="f000180">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“<em>I</em> think all the novels are splendid!</span>
   <span id="f000182">I hope you will write hundreds more,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and I shall live to read ’em.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“Bravo,</span>
   <span id="f000185">my gentle champion!</span>
   <span id="f000186">I promise that I will write one more at least,</span>
   <span id="f000187">and have a heroine in it whom your mother will both admire and love,” answered Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000188">surprised to find how grateful he was for the girl’s approval,</span>
   <span id="f000189">and how rapidly his trained fancy began to paint the background on which he hoped to copy this fresh,</span>
   <span id="f000190">human daisy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">Abashed by her involuntary outburst,</span>
   <span id="f000192">Ruth tried to efface herself behind Saul’s broad shoulder,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and he brought the conversation back to its starting-point by saying in a tone of the most sincere interest,</span>
   <span id="f000194">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">“Speaking of the serial,</span>
   <span id="f000196">I am very anxious to know how your hero comes out.</span>
   <span id="f000197">He is a fine fellow,</span>
   <span id="f000198">and I can’t decide whether he is going to spoil his life marrying that silly woman,</span>
   <span id="f000199">or do something grand and generous,</span>
   <span id="f000200">and not be made a fool of.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“Upon my soul,</span>
   <span id="f000202">I don’t know myself.</span>
   <span id="f000203">It is very hard to find new finales.</span>
   <span id="f000204">Can’t you suggest something,</span>
   <span id="f000205">Major?</span>
   <span id="f000206">then I shall not be obliged to leave my story without an end,</span>
   <span id="f000207">as people complain I am rather fond of doing.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000208">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000209">no,</span>
   <span id="f000210">I don’t think I’ve anything to offer.</span>
   <span id="f000211">Seems to me it isn’t the sensational exploits that show the hero best,</span>
   <span id="f000212">but some great sacrifice quietly made by a common sort of man who is noble without knowing it.</span>
   <span id="f000213">I saw a good many such during the war,</span>
   <span id="f000214">and often wish I could write them down,</span>
   <span id="f000215">for it is surprising how much courage,</span>
   <span id="f000216">goodness and real piety is stowed away in common folks ready to show when the right time comes.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“Tell us one of them,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and I’ll bless you for a hint.</span>
   <span id="f000219">No one knows the anguish of an author’s spirit when he can’t ring down the curtain on an effective tableau,” said Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000220">with a glance at his friends to ask their aid in eliciting an anecdote or reminiscence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000221">“Tell about the splendid fellow who held the bridge,</span>
   <span id="f000222">like Horatius,</span>
   <span id="f000223">till help came up.</span>
   <span id="f000224">That was a thrilling story,</span>
   <span id="f000225">I assure you,” answered Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000226">with an inviting smile.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000227">But Saul would not be his own hero,</span>
   <span id="f000228">and said briefly:</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“Any man can be brave when the battle-fever is on him,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and it only takes a little physical courage to dash ahead.” He paused a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000231">with his eyes on the snowy landscape without,</span>
   <span id="f000232">where twilight was deepening;</span>
   <span id="f000233">then,</span>
   <span id="f000234">as if constrained by the memory that winter scene evoked,</span>
   <span id="f000235">he slowly continued,</span>
   <span id="f000236">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000237">One of the bravest things I ever knew was done by a poor fellow who has been a hero to me ever since,</span>
   <span id="f000238">though I only met him that night.</span>
   <span id="f000239">It was after one of the big battles of that last winter,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and I was knocked over with a broken leg and two or three bullets here and there.</span>
   <span id="f000241">Night was coming on,</span>
   <span id="f000242">snow falling,</span>
   <span id="f000243">and a sharp wind blew over the field where a lot of us lay,</span>
   <span id="f000244">dead and alive,</span>
   <span id="f000245">waiting for the ambulance to come and pick us up.</span>
   <span id="f000246">There was skirmishing going on not far off,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and our prospects were rather poor between frost and fire.</span>
   <span id="f000248">I was calculating how I’d manage,</span>
   <span id="f000249">when I found two poor chaps close by who were worse off,</span>
   <span id="f000250">so I braced up and did what I could for them.</span>
   <span id="f000251">One had an arm blown away,</span>
   <span id="f000252">and kept up a dreadful groaning.</span>
   <span id="f000253">The other was shot bad,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and bleeding to death for want of help,</span>
   <span id="f000255">but never complained.</span>
   <span id="f000256">He was nearest,</span>
   <span id="f000257">and I liked his pluck,</span>
   <span id="f000258">for he spoke cheerful and made me ashamed to growl.</span>
   <span id="f000259">Such times make dreadful brutes of men if they haven’t something to hold on to,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and all three of us were most wild with pain and cold and hunger,</span>
   <span id="f000261">for we’d fought all day fasting,</span>
   <span id="f000262">when we heard a rumble in the road below,</span>
   <span id="f000263">and saw lanterns bobbing round.</span>
   <span id="f000264">That meant life to us,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and we all tried to holler;</span>
   <span id="f000266">two of us were pretty faint,</span>
   <span id="f000267">but I managed a good yell,</span>
   <span id="f000268">and they heard it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000269">’Room for one more.</span>
   <span id="f000270">Hard luck,</span>
   <span id="f000271">old boys,</span>
   <span id="f000272">but we are full and must save the worst wounded first.</span>
   <span id="f000273">Take a drink,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and hold on till we come back,’ says one of them with the stretcher.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">’Here’s the one to go,’ I says,</span>
   <span id="f000276">pointin’ out my man,</span>
   <span id="f000277">for I saw by the light that he was hard hit.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“’No,</span>
   <span id="f000279">that one.</span>
   <span id="f000280">He’s got more chances than I,</span>
   <span id="f000281">or this one;</span>
   <span id="f000282">he’s young and got a mother;</span>
   <span id="f000283">I’ll wait,’ said the good feller,</span>
   <span id="f000284">touchin’ my arm,</span>
   <span id="f000285">for he ’d heard me mutterin’ to myself about this dear old lady.</span>
   <span id="f000286">We always want mother when we are down,</span>
   <span id="f000287">you know.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000288">Saul’s eyes turned to the beloved face with a glance of tenderest affection,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and Aunt Plumy answered with a dismal groan at the recollection of his need that night,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and her absence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000292">to be short,</span>
   <span id="f000293">the groaning chap was taken,</span>
   <span id="f000294">and my man left.</span>
   <span id="f000295">I was mad,</span>
   <span id="f000296">but there was no time for talk,</span>
   <span id="f000297">and the selfish one went off and left that poor feller to run his one chance.</span>
   <span id="f000298">I had my rifle,</span>
   <span id="f000299">and guessed I could hobble up to use it if need be;</span>
   <span id="f000300">so we settled back to wait without much hope of help,</span>
   <span id="f000301">everything being in a muddle.</span>
   <span id="f000302">And wait we did till morning,</span>
   <span id="f000303">for that ambulance did not come back till next day,</span>
   <span id="f000304">when most of us were past needing it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">“I’ll never forget that night.</span>
   <span id="f000306">I dream it all over again as plain as if it was real.</span>
   <span id="f000307">Snow,</span>
   <span id="f000308">cold,</span>
   <span id="f000309">darkness,</span>
   <span id="f000310">hunger,</span>
   <span id="f000311">thirst,</span>
   <span id="f000312">pain,</span>
   <span id="f000313">and all round us cries and cursing growing less and less,</span>
   <span id="f000314">till at last only the wind went moaning over that meadow.</span>
   <span id="f000315">It was awful!</span>
   <span id="f000316">so lonesome,</span>
   <span id="f000317">helpless,</span>
   <span id="f000318">and seemingly God-forsaken.</span>
   <span id="f000319">Hour after hour we lay there side by side under one coat,</span>
   <span id="f000320">waiting to be saved or die,</span>
   <span id="f000321">for the wind grew strong and we grew weak.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000322">Saul drew a long breath,</span>
   <span id="f000323">and held his hands to the fire as if he felt again the sharp suffering of that night.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000324">“And the man?” asked Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000325">softly,</span>
   <span id="f000326">as if reluctant to break the silence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000327">“He <em>was</em> a man!</span>
   <span id="f000328">In times like that men talk like brothers and show what they are.</span>
   <span id="f000329">Lying there,</span>
   <span id="f000330">slowly freezing,</span>
   <span id="f000331">Joe Cummings told me about his wife and babies,</span>
   <span id="f000332">his old folks waiting for him,</span>
   <span id="f000333">all depending on him,</span>
   <span id="f000334">yet all ready to give him up when he was needed.</span>
   <span id="f000335">A plain man,</span>
   <span id="f000336">but honest and true,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and loving as a woman;</span>
   <span id="f000338">I soon saw that as he went on talking,</span>
   <span id="f000339">half to me and half to himself,</span>
   <span id="f000340">for sometimes he wandered a little toward the end.</span>
   <span id="f000341">I’ve read books,</span>
   <span id="f000342">heard sermons,</span>
   <span id="f000343">and seen good folks,</span>
   <span id="f000344">but nothing ever came so close or did me so much good as seeing this man die.</span>
   <span id="f000345">He had one chance and gave it cheerfully.</span>
   <span id="f000346">He longed for those he loved,</span>
   <span id="f000347">and let ’em go with a good-by they couldn’t hear.</span>
   <span id="f000348">He suffered all the pains we most shrink from without a murmur,</span>
   <span id="f000349">and kept my heart warm while his own was growing cold.</span>
   <span id="f000350">It’s no use trying to tell that part of it;</span>
   <span id="f000351">but I heard prayers that night that meant something,</span>
   <span id="f000352">and I saw how faith could hold a soul up when everything was gone but God.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000353">Saul stopped there with a sudden huskiness in his deep voice,</span>
   <span id="f000354">and when he went on it was in the tone of one who speaks of a dear friend.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000355">“Joe grew still by and by,</span>
   <span id="f000356">and I thought he was asleep,</span>
   <span id="f000357">for I felt his breath when I tucked him up,</span>
   <span id="f000358">and his hand held on to mine.</span>
   <span id="f000359">The cold sort of numbed me,</span>
   <span id="f000360">and I dropped off,</span>
   <span id="f000361">too weak and stupid to think or feel.</span>
   <span id="f000362">I never should have waked up if it hadn’t been for Joe.</span>
   <span id="f000363">When I came to,</span>
   <span id="f000364">it was morning,</span>
   <span id="f000365">and I thought I was dead,</span>
   <span id="f000366">for all I could see was that great field of white mounds,</span>
   <span id="f000367">like graves,</span>
   <span id="f000368">and a splendid sky above.</span>
   <span id="f000369">Then I looked for Joe,</span>
   <span id="f000370">remembering;</span>
   <span id="f000371">but he had put my coat back over me,</span>
   <span id="f000372">and lay stiff and still under the snow that covered him like a shroud,</span>
   <span id="f000373">all except his face.</span>
   <span id="f000374">A bit of my cape had blown over it,</span>
   <span id="f000375">and when I took it off and the sun shone on his dead face,</span>
   <span id="f000376">I declare to you it was so full of heavenly peace I felt as if that common man had been glorified by God’s light,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and rewarded by God’s ’Well done.’ That’s all.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000378">No one spoke for a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000379">while the women wiped their eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000380">and Saul dropped his as if to hide something softer than tears.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000381">“It was very noble,</span>
   <span id="f000382">very touching.</span>
   <span id="f000383">And you?</span>
   <span id="f000384">how did you get off at last?” asked Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000385">with real admiration and respect in his usually languid face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000386">“Crawled off,” answered Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000387">relapsing into his former brevity of speech.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000388">“Why not before,</span>
   <span id="f000389">and save yourself all that misery?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000390">“Couldn’t leave Joe.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000391">“Ah,</span>
   <span id="f000392">I see;</span>
   <span id="f000393">there were two heroes that night.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000394">“Dozens,</span>
   <span id="f000395">I’ve no doubt.</span>
   <span id="f000396">Those were times that made heroes of men,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and women,</span>
   <span id="f000398">too.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000399">“Tell us more;” begged Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000400">looking up with an expression none of her admirers ever brought to her face by their softest compliments or wiliest gossip.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000401">“I’ve done my part.</span>
   <span id="f000402">It’s Mr.&#160;Randal’s turn now;” and Saul drew himself out of the ruddy circle of firelight,</span>
   <span id="f000403">as if ashamed of the prominent part he was playing.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000404">Sophie and her friend had often heard Randal talk,</span>
   <span id="f000405">for he was an accomplished <em>raconteur</em>,</span>
   <span id="f000406">but that night he exerted himself,</span>
   <span id="f000407">and was unusually brilliant and entertaining,</span>
   <span id="f000408">as if upon his mettle.</span>
   <span id="f000409">The Bassets were charmed.</span>
   <span id="f000410">They sat late and were very merry,</span>
   <span id="f000411">for Aunt Plumy got up a little supper for them,</span>
   <span id="f000412">and her cider was as exhilarating as champagne.</span>
   <span id="f000413">When they parted for the night and Sophie kissed her aunt,</span>
   <span id="f000414">Emily did the same,</span>
   <span id="f000415">saying heartily,</span>
   <span id="f000416">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000417">“It seems as if I’d known you all my life,</span>
   <span id="f000418">and this is certainly the most enchanting old place that ever was.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">“Glad you like it,</span>
   <span id="f000420">dear.</span>
   <span id="f000421">But it ain’t all fun,</span>
   <span id="f000422">as you’ll find out to-morrow when you go to work,</span>
   <span id="f000423">for Sophie says you must,” answered Mrs.&#160;Basset,</span>
   <span id="f000424">as her guests trooped away,</span>
   <span id="f000425">rashly promising to like everything.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p002.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track03">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

