<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">A Country Christmas</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part III</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">They found it difficult to keep their word when they were called at half past six next morning.</span>
   <span id="f000004">Their rooms were warm,</span>
   <span id="f000005">however,</span>
   <span id="f000006">and they managed to scramble down in time for breakfast,</span>
   <span id="f000007">guided by the fragrance of coffee and Aunt Plumy’s shrill voice singing the good old hymn –</span></p>
   <blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000008">“Lord,</span>
   <span id="f000009">in the morning Thou shalt hear<br /></span>
   <span id="f000010">My voice ascending high.”</span></p>
   </blockquote>
   <p><span id="f000011">An open fire blazed on the hearth,</span>
   <span id="f000012">for the cooking was done in the lean-to,</span>
   <span id="f000013">and the spacious,</span>
   <span id="f000014">sunny kitchen was kept in all its old-fashioned perfection,</span>
   <span id="f000015">with the wooden settle in a warm nook,</span>
   <span id="f000016">the tall clock behind the door,</span>
   <span id="f000017">copper and pewter utensils shining on the dresser,</span>
   <span id="f000018">old china in the corner closet and a little spinning wheel rescued from the garret by Sophie to adorn the deep window,</span>
   <span id="f000019">full of scarlet geraniums,</span>
   <span id="f000020">Christmas roses,</span>
   <span id="f000021">and white chrysanthemums.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000022">The young lady,</span>
   <span id="f000023">in a checked apron and mob-cap,</span>
   <span id="f000024">greeted her friends with a dish of buckwheats in one hand,</span>
   <span id="f000025">and a pair of cheeks that proved she had been learning to fry these delectable cakes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">“You do ’keep it up’ in earnest,</span>
   <span id="f000027">upon my word;</span>
   <span id="f000028">and very becoming it is,</span>
   <span id="f000029">dear.</span>
   <span id="f000030">But won’t you ruin your complexion and roughen your hands if you do so much of this new fancy-work?” asked Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000031">much amazed at this novel freak.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000032">“I like it,</span>
   <span id="f000033">and really believe I’ve found my proper sphere at last.</span>
   <span id="f000034">Domestic life seems so pleasant to me that I feel as if I’d better keep it up for the rest of my life,” answered Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000035">making a pretty picture of herself as she cut great slices of brown bread,</span>
   <span id="f000036">with the early sunshine touching her happy face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000037">“The charming Miss Vaughan in the role of a farmer’s wife.</span>
   <span id="f000038">I find it difficult to imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000039">and shrink from the thought of the wide-spread dismay such a fate will produce among her adorers,” added Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000040">as he basked in the glow of the hospitable fire.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000041">“She might do worse;</span>
   <span id="f000042">but come to breakfast and do honor to my handiwork,” said Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000043">thinking of her worn-out millionnaire,</span>
   <span id="f000044">and rather nettled by the satiric smile on Randal’s lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000045">“What an appetite early rising gives one.</span>
   <span id="f000046">I feel equal to almost anything,</span>
   <span id="f000047">so let me help wash cups,” said Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000048">with unusual energy,</span>
   <span id="f000049">when the hearty meal was over and Sophie began to pick up the dishes as if it was her usual work.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000050">Ruth went to the window to water the flowers,</span>
   <span id="f000051">and Randal followed to make himself agreeable,</span>
   <span id="f000052">remembering her defence of him last night.</span>
   <span id="f000053">He was used to admiration from feminine eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000054">and flattery from soft lips,</span>
   <span id="f000055">but found something new and charming in the innocent delight which showed itself at his approach in blushes more eloquent than words,</span>
   <span id="f000056">and shy glances from eyes full of hero-worship.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000057">“I hope you are going to spare me a posy for to-morrow night,</span>
   <span id="f000058">since I can be fine in no other way to do honor to the dance Miss Sophie proposes for us,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000059">leaning in the bay window to look down on the little girl,</span>
   <span id="f000060">with the devoted air he usually wore for pretty women.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000061">“Anything you like!</span>
   <span id="f000062">I should be so glad to have you wear my flowers.</span>
   <span id="f000063">There will be enough for all,</span>
   <span id="f000064">and I’ve nothing else to give to people who have made me as happy as cousin Sophie and you,” answered Ruth,</span>
   <span id="f000065">half drowning her great calla as she spoke with grateful warmth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“You must make her happy by accepting the invitation to go home with her which I heard given last night.</span>
   <span id="f000067">A peep at the world would do you good,</span>
   <span id="f000068">and be a pleasant change,</span>
   <span id="f000069">I think.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000070">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000071">very pleasant!</span>
   <span id="f000072">but would it do me good?” and Ruth looked up with sudden seriousness in her blue eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000073">as a child questions an elder,</span>
   <span id="f000074">eager,</span>
   <span id="f000075">yet wistful.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“Why not?” asked Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000077">wondering at the hesitation.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000078">“I might grow discontented with things here if I saw splendid houses and fine people.</span>
   <span id="f000079">I am very happy now,</span>
   <span id="f000080">and it would break my heart to lose that happiness,</span>
   <span id="f000081">or ever learn to be ashamed of home.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">“But don’t you long for more pleasure,</span>
   <span id="f000083">new scenes and other friends than these?” asked the man,</span>
   <span id="f000084">touched by the little creature’s loyalty to the things she knew and loved.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000085">“Very often,</span>
   <span id="f000086">but mother says when I’m ready they will come,</span>
   <span id="f000087">so I wait and try not to be impatient.” But Ruth’s eyes looked out over the green leaves as if the longing was very strong within her to see more of the unknown world lying beyond the mountains that hemmed her in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000088">“It is natural for birds to hop out of the nest,</span>
   <span id="f000089">so I shall expect to see you over there before long,</span>
   <span id="f000090">and ask you how you enjoy your first flight,” said Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000091">in a paternal tone that had a curious effect on Ruth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000092">To his surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000093">she laughed,</span>
   <span id="f000094">then blushed like one of her own roses,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and answered with a demure dignity that was very pretty to see.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“I intend to hop soon,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but it won’t be a very long flight or very far from mother.</span>
   <span id="f000098">She can’t spare me,</span>
   <span id="f000099">and nobody in the world can fill her place to me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000100">“Bless the child,</span>
   <span id="f000101">does she think I’m going to make love to her,” thought Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000102">much amused,</span>
   <span id="f000103">but quite mistaken.</span>
   <span id="f000104">Wiser women had thought so when he assumed the caressing air with which he beguiled them into the little revelations of character he liked to use,</span>
   <span id="f000105">as the south wind makes flowers open their hearts to give up their odor,</span>
   <span id="f000106">then leaves them to carry it elsewhere,</span>
   <span id="f000107">the more welcome for the stolen sweetness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000108">“Perhaps you are right.</span>
   <span id="f000109">The maternal wing is a safe shelter for confiding little souls like you,</span>
   <span id="f000110">Miss Ruth.</span>
   <span id="f000111">You will be as comfortable here as your flowers in this sunny window,” he said,</span>
   <span id="f000112">carelessly pinching geranium leaves,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and ruffling the roses till the pink petals of the largest fluttered to the floor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">As if she instinctively felt and resented something in the man which his act symbolized,</span>
   <span id="f000115">the girl answered quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000116">as she went on with her work,</span>
   <span id="f000117">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000118">if the frost does not touch me,</span>
   <span id="f000119">or careless people spoil me too soon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000120">Before Randal could reply Aunt Plumy approached like a maternal hen who sees her chicken in danger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">“Saul is goin’ to haul wood after he’s done his chores,</span>
   <span id="f000122">mebbe you’d like to go along?</span>
   <span id="f000123">The view is good,</span>
   <span id="f000124">the roads well broke,</span>
   <span id="f000125">and the day uncommon fine.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000126">“Thanks;</span>
   <span id="f000127">it will be delightful,</span>
   <span id="f000128">I dare say,” politely responded the lion,</span>
   <span id="f000129">with a secret shudder at the idea of a rural promenade at 8 A.M.</span>
   <span id="f000130">in the winter.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000131">“Come on,</span>
   <span id="f000132">then;</span>
   <span id="f000133">we’ll feed the stock,</span>
   <span id="f000134">and then I’ll show you how to yoke oxen,” said Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000135">with a twinkle in his eye as he led the way,</span>
   <span id="f000136">when his new aide had muffled himself up as if for a polar voyage.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">“Now,</span>
   <span id="f000138">that’s too bad of Saul!</span>
   <span id="f000139">He did it on purpose,</span>
   <span id="f000140">just to please you,</span>
   <span id="f000141">Sophie,” cried Ruth presently,</span>
   <span id="f000142">and the girls ran to the window to behold Randal bravely following his host with a pail of pigs’ food in each hand,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and an expression of resigned disgust upon his aristocratic face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“To what base uses may we come,” quoted Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000145">as they all nodded and smiled upon the victim as he looked back from the barn-yard,</span>
   <span id="f000146">where he was clamorously welcomed by his new charges.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“It is rather a shock at first,</span>
   <span id="f000148">but it will do him good,</span>
   <span id="f000149">and Saul won’t be too hard upon him,</span>
   <span id="f000150">I’m sure,” said Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000151">going back to her work,</span>
   <span id="f000152">while Ruth turned her best buds to the sun that they might be ready for a peace-offering to-morrow.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000153">There was a merry clatter in the big kitchen for an hour;</span>
   <span id="f000154">then Aunt Plumy and her daughter shut themselves up in the pantry to perform some culinary rites,</span>
   <span id="f000155">and the young ladies went to inspect certain antique costumes laid forth in Sophie’s room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“You see,</span>
   <span id="f000157">Em,</span>
   <span id="f000158">I thought it would be appropriate to the house and season to have an old-fashioned dance.</span>
   <span id="f000159">Aunt has quantities of ancient finery stowed away,</span>
   <span id="f000160">for great-grandfather Basset was a fine old gentleman and his family lived in state.</span>
   <span id="f000161">Take your choice of the crimson,</span>
   <span id="f000162">blue or silver-gray damask.</span>
   <span id="f000163">Ruth is to wear the worked muslin and quilted white satin skirt,</span>
   <span id="f000164">with that coquettish hat.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000165">“Being dark,</span>
   <span id="f000166">I’ll take the red and trim it up with this fine lace.</span>
   <span id="f000167">You must wear the blue and primrose,</span>
   <span id="f000168">with the distracting high-heeled shoes.</span>
   <span id="f000169">Have you any suits for the men?” asked Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000170">throwing herself at once into the all-absorbing matter of costume.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000171">“A claret velvet coat and vest,</span>
   <span id="f000172">silk stockings,</span>
   <span id="f000173">cocked hat and snuff-box for Randal.</span>
   <span id="f000174">Nothing large enough for Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000175">so he must wear his uniform.</span>
   <span id="f000176">Won’t Aunt Plumy be superb in this plum-colored satin and immense cap?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000177">A delightful morning was spent in adapting the faded finery of the past to the blooming beauty of the present,</span>
   <span id="f000178">and time and tongues flew till the toot of a horn called them down to dinner.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000179">The girls were amazed to see Randal come whistling up the road with his trousers tucked into his boots,</span>
   <span id="f000180">blue mittens on his hands,</span>
   <span id="f000181">and an unusual amount of energy in his whole figure,</span>
   <span id="f000182">as he drove the oxen,</span>
   <span id="f000183">while Saul laughed at his vain attempts to guide the bewildered beasts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“It’s immense!</span>
   <span id="f000185">The view from the hill is well worth seeing,</span>
   <span id="f000186">for the snow glorifies the landscape and reminds one of Switzerland.</span>
   <span id="f000187">I’m going to make a sketch of it this afternoon;</span>
   <span id="f000188">better come and enjoy the delicious freshness,</span>
   <span id="f000189">young ladies.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">Randal was eating with such an appetite that he did not see the glances the girls exchanged as they promised to go.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000191">“Bring home some more winter-green,</span>
   <span id="f000192">I want things to be real nice,</span>
   <span id="f000193">and we haven’t enough for the kitchen,” said Ruth,</span>
   <span id="f000194">dimpling with girlish delight as she imagined herself dancing under the green garlands in her grandmother’s wedding gown.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000195">It was very lovely on the hill,</span>
   <span id="f000196">for far as the eye could reach lay the wintry landscape sparkling with the brief beauty of sunshine on virgin snow.</span>
   <span id="f000197">Pines sighed overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000198">hardy birds flitted to and fro,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and in all the trodden spots rose the little spires of evergreen ready for its Christmas duty.</span>
   <span id="f000200">Deeper in the wood sounded the measured ring of axes,</span>
   <span id="f000201">the crash of falling trees,</span>
   <span id="f000202">while the red shirts of the men added color to the scene,</span>
   <span id="f000203">and a fresh wind brought the aromatic breath of newly cloven hemlock and pine.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000204">“How beautiful it is!</span>
   <span id="f000205">I never knew before what winter woods were like.</span>
   <span id="f000206">Did you,</span>
   <span id="f000207">Sophie?” asked Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000208">sitting on a stump to enjoy the novel pleasure at her ease.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000209">“I’ve found out lately;</span>
   <span id="f000210">Saul lets me come as often as I like,</span>
   <span id="f000211">and this fine air seems to make a new creature of me,” answered Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000212">looking about her with sparkling eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000213">as if this was a kingdom where she reigned supreme.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000214">“Something is making a new creature of you,</span>
   <span id="f000215">that is very evident.</span>
   <span id="f000216">I haven’t yet discovered whether it is the air or some magic herb among that green stuff you are gathering so diligently;” and Emily laughed to see the color deepen beautifully in her friend’s half-averted face.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“Scarlet is the only wear just now,</span>
   <span id="f000218">I find.</span>
   <span id="f000219">If we are lost like babes in the woods there are plenty of redbreasts to cover us with leaves,” and Randal joined Emily’s laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000220">with a glance at Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000221">who had just pulled his coat off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“You wanted to see this tree go down,</span>
   <span id="f000223">so stand from under and I’ll show you how it’s done,” said the farmer,</span>
   <span id="f000224">taking up his axe,</span>
   <span id="f000225">not unwilling to gratify his guests and display his manly accomplishments at the same time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">It was a fine sight,</span>
   <span id="f000227">the stalwart man swinging his axe with magnificent strength and skill,</span>
   <span id="f000228">each blow sending a thrill through the stately tree,</span>
   <span id="f000229">till its heart was reached and it tottered to its fall.</span>
   <span id="f000230">Never pausing for breath Saul shook his yellow mane out of his eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000231">and hewed away,</span>
   <span id="f000232">while the drops stood on his forehead and his arm ached,</span>
   <span id="f000233">as bent on distinguishing himself as if he had been a knight tilting against his rival for his lady’s favor.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000234">“I don’t know which to admire most,</span>
   <span id="f000235">the man or his muscle.</span>
   <span id="f000236">One doesn’t often see such vigor,</span>
   <span id="f000237">size and comeliness in these degenerate days,” said Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000238">mentally booking the fine figure in the red shirt.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000239">“I think we have discovered a rough diamond.</span>
   <span id="f000240">I only wonder if Sophie is going to try and polish it,” answered Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000241">glancing at her friend,</span>
   <span id="f000242">who stood a little apart,</span>
   <span id="f000243">watching the rise and fall of the axe as intently as if her fate depended on it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000244">Down rushed the tree at last,</span>
   <span id="f000245">and,</span>
   <span id="f000246">leaving them to examine a crow’s nest in its branches,</span>
   <span id="f000247">Saul went off to his men,</span>
   <span id="f000248">as if he found the praises of his prowess rather too much for him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000249">Randal fell to sketching,</span>
   <span id="f000250">the girls to their garland-making,</span>
   <span id="f000251">and for a little while the sunny woodland nook was full of lively chat and pleasant laughter,</span>
   <span id="f000252">for the air exhilarated them all like wine.</span>
   <span id="f000253">Suddenly a man came running from the wood,</span>
   <span id="f000254">pale and anxious,</span>
   <span id="f000255">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000256">as he hastened by for help,</span>
   <span id="f000257">“Blasted tree fell on him!</span>
   <span id="f000258">Bleed to death before the doctor comes!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000259">“Who?</span>
   <span id="f000260">who?” cried the startled trio.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000261">But the man ran on,</span>
   <span id="f000262">with some breathless reply,</span>
   <span id="f000263">in which only a name was audible – “Basset.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000264">“The deuce it is!” and Randal dropped his pencil,</span>
   <span id="f000265">while the girls sprang up in dismay.</span>
   <span id="f000266">Then,</span>
   <span id="f000267">with one impulse,</span>
   <span id="f000268">they hastened to the distant group,</span>
   <span id="f000269">half visible behind the fallen trees and corded wood.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">Sophie was there first,</span>
   <span id="f000271">and forcing her way through the little crowd of men,</span>
   <span id="f000272">saw a red-shirted figure on the ground,</span>
   <span id="f000273">crushed and bleeding,</span>
   <span id="f000274">and threw herself down beside it with a cry that pierced the hearts of those who heard it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">In the act she saw it was not Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000276">and covered her bewildered face as if to hide its joy.</span>
   <span id="f000277">A strong arm lifted her,</span>
   <span id="f000278">and the familiar voice said cheeringly,</span>
   <span id="f000279">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000280">“I’m all right,</span>
   <span id="f000281">dear.</span>
   <span id="f000282">Poor Bruce is hurt,</span>
   <span id="f000283">but we’ve sent for help.</span>
   <span id="f000284">Better go right home and forget all about it.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000285">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000286">I will,</span>
   <span id="f000287">if I can do nothing;” and Sophie meekly returned to her friends who stood outside the circle over which Saul’s head towered,</span>
   <span id="f000288">assuring them of his safety.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">Hoping they had not seen her agitation,</span>
   <span id="f000290">she led Emily away,</span>
   <span id="f000291">leaving Randal to give what aid he could and bring them news of the poor wood-chopper’s state.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">Aunt Plumy produced the “camphire” the moment she saw Sophie’s pale face,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and made her lie down,</span>
   <span id="f000294">while the brave old lady trudged briskly off with bandages and brandy to the scene of action.</span>
   <span id="f000295">On her return she brought comfortable news of the man,</span>
   <span id="f000296">so the little flurry blew over and was forgotten by all but Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000297">who remained pale and quiet all the evening,</span>
   <span id="f000298">tying evergreen as if her life depended on it.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000299">“A good night’s sleep will set her up.</span>
   <span id="f000300">She ain’t used to such things,</span>
   <span id="f000301">dear child,</span>
   <span id="f000302">and needs cossetin’,” said Aunt Plumy,</span>
   <span id="f000303">purring over her until she was in her bed,</span>
   <span id="f000304">with a hot stone at her feet and a bowl of herb tea to quiet her nerves.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000305">An hour later when Emily went up,</span>
   <span id="f000306">she peeped in to see if Sophie was sleeping nicely,</span>
   <span id="f000307">and was surprised to find the invalid wrapped in a dressing-gown writing busily.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000308">“Last will and testament,</span>
   <span id="f000309">or sudden inspiration,</span>
   <span id="f000310">dear?</span>
   <span id="f000311">How are you?</span>
   <span id="f000312">faint or feverish,</span>
   <span id="f000313">delirious or in the dumps!</span>
   <span id="f000314">Saul looks so anxious,</span>
   <span id="f000315">and Mrs.&#160;Basset hushes us all up so,</span>
   <span id="f000316">I came to bed,</span>
   <span id="f000317">leaving Randal to entertain Ruth.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">As she spoke Emily saw the papers disappear in a portfolio,</span>
   <span id="f000319">and Sophie rose with a yawn.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">“I was writing letters,</span>
   <span id="f000321">but I’m sleepy now.</span>
   <span id="f000322">Quite over my foolish fright,</span>
   <span id="f000323">thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000324">Go and get your beauty sleep that you may dazzle the natives to-morrow.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">“So glad,</span>
   <span id="f000326">good night;” and Emily went away,</span>
   <span id="f000327">saying to herself,</span>
   <span id="f000328">“Something is going on,</span>
   <span id="f000329">and I must find out what it is before I leave.</span>
   <span id="f000330">Sophie can’t blind <em>me</em>.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000331">But Sophie did all the next day,</span>
   <span id="f000332">being delightfully gay at the dinner,</span>
   <span id="f000333">and devoting herself to the young minister who was invited to meet the distinguished novelist,</span>
   <span id="f000334">and evidently being afraid of him,</span>
   <span id="f000335">gladly basked in the smiles of his charming neighbor.</span>
   <span id="f000336">A dashing sleigh-ride occupied the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000337">and then great was the fun and excitement over the costumes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">Aunt Plumy laughed till the tears rolled down her cheeks as the girls compressed her into the plum-colored gown with its short waist,</span>
   <span id="f000339">leg-of-mutton sleeves,</span>
   <span id="f000340">and narrow skirt.</span>
   <span id="f000341">But a worked scarf hid all deficiencies,</span>
   <span id="f000342">and the towering cap struck awe into the soul of the most frivolous observer.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000343">“Keep an eye on me,</span>
   <span id="f000344">girls,</span>
   <span id="f000345">for I shall certainly split somewheres or lose my head-piece off when I’m trottin’ round.</span>
   <span id="f000346">What would my blessed mother say if she could see me rigged out in her best things?” and with a smile and a sigh the old lady departed to look after “the boys,” and see that the supper was all right.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p003.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track04">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a href="p005.xhtml#audio">[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

