<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000001">A Country Christmas</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <h2 class="sectionTitle"><span id="f000002">Part IV</span></h2>
   <p><span id="f000003">Three prettier damsels never tripped down the wide staircase than the brilliant brunette in crimson brocade,</span>
   <span id="f000004">the pensive blonde in blue,</span>
   <span id="f000005">or the rosy little bride in old muslin and white satin.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000006">A gallant court gentleman met them in the hall with a superb bow,</span>
   <span id="f000007">and escorted them to the parlor,</span>
   <span id="f000008">where Grandma Basset’s ghost was discovered dancing with a modern major in full uniform.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000009">Mutual admiration and many compliments followed,</span>
   <span id="f000010">till other ancient ladies and gentlemen arrived in all manner of queer costumes,</span>
   <span id="f000011">and the old house seemed to wake from its humdrum quietude to sudden music and merriment,</span>
   <span id="f000012">as if a past generation had returned to keep its Christmas there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000013">The village fiddler soon struck up the good old tunes,</span>
   <span id="f000014">and then the strangers saw dancing that filled them with mingled mirth and envy;</span>
   <span id="f000015">it was so droll,</span>
   <span id="f000016">yet so hearty.</span>
   <span id="f000017">The young men,</span>
   <span id="f000018">unusually awkward in their grandfathers’ knee-breeches,</span>
   <span id="f000019">flapping vests,</span>
   <span id="f000020">and swallow-tail coats,</span>
   <span id="f000021">footed it bravely with the buxom girls who were the prettier for their quaintness,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and danced with such vigor that their high combs stood awry,</span>
   <span id="f000023">their furbelows waved wildly,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and their cheeks were as red as their breast-knots,</span>
   <span id="f000025">or hose.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000026">It was impossible to stand still,</span>
   <span id="f000027">and one after the other the city folk yielded to the spell,</span>
   <span id="f000028">Randal leading off with Ruth,</span>
   <span id="f000029">Sophie swept away by Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000030">and Emily being taken possession of by a young giant of eighteen,</span>
   <span id="f000031">who spun her around with a boyish impetuosity that took her breath away.</span>
   <span id="f000032">Even Aunt Plumy was discovered jigging it alone in the pantry,</span>
   <span id="f000033">as if the music was too much for her,</span>
   <span id="f000034">and the plates and glasses jingled gaily on the shelves in time to Money Musk and Fishers’ Hornpipe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000035">A pause came at last,</span>
   <span id="f000036">however,</span>
   <span id="f000037">and fans fluttered,</span>
   <span id="f000038">heated brows were wiped,</span>
   <span id="f000039">jokes were made,</span>
   <span id="f000040">lovers exchanged confidences,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and every nook and corner held a man and maid carrying on the sweet game which is never out of fashion.</span>
   <span id="f000042">There was a glitter of gold lace in the back entry,</span>
   <span id="f000043">and a train of blue and primrose shone in the dim light.</span>
   <span id="f000044">There was a richer crimson than that of the geraniums in the deep window,</span>
   <span id="f000045">and a dainty shoe tapped the bare floor impatiently as the brilliant black eyes looked everywhere for the court gentleman,</span>
   <span id="f000046">while their owner listened to the gruff prattle of an enamored boy.</span>
   <span id="f000047">But in the upper hall walked a little white ghost as if waiting for some shadowy companion,</span>
   <span id="f000048">and when a dark form appeared ran to take its arm,</span>
   <span id="f000049">saying,</span>
   <span id="f000050">in a tone of soft satisfaction,</span>
   <span id="f000051">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“I was so afraid you wouldn’t come!”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000053">“Why did you leave me,</span>
   <span id="f000054">Ruth?” answered a manly voice in a tone of surprise,</span>
   <span id="f000055">though the small hand slipping from the velvet coat-sleeve was replaced as if it was pleasant to feel it there.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000056">A pause,</span>
   <span id="f000057">and then the other voice answered demurely,</span>
   <span id="f000058">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000059">“Because I was afraid my head would be turned by the fine things you were saying.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000060">“It is impossible to help saying what one feels to such an artless little creature as you are.</span>
   <span id="f000061">It does me good to admire anything so fresh and sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000062">and won’t harm you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">“It might if – ”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000064">“If what,</span>
   <span id="f000065">my daisy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000066">“I believed it,” and a laugh seemed to finish the broken sentence better than the words.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000067">“You may,</span>
   <span id="f000068">Ruth,</span>
   <span id="f000069">for I do sincerely admire the most genuine girl I have seen for a long time.</span>
   <span id="f000070">And walking here with you in your bridal white I was just asking myself if I should not be a happier man with a home of my own and a little wife hanging on my arm than drifting about the world as I do now with only myself to care for.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000071">“I know you would!” and Ruth spoke so earnestly that Randal was both touched and startled,</span>
   <span id="f000072">fearing he had ventured too far in a mood of unwonted sentiment,</span>
   <span id="f000073">born of the romance of the hour and the sweet frankness of his companion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“Then you don’t think it would be rash for some sweet woman to take me in hand and make me happy,</span>
   <span id="f000075">since fame is a failure?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000076">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000077">no;</span>
   <span id="f000078">it would be easy work if she loved you.</span>
   <span id="f000079">I know some one – if I only dared to tell her name.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000080">“Upon my soul,</span>
   <span id="f000081">this is cool,” and Randal looked down,</span>
   <span id="f000082">wondering if the audacious lady on his arm could be shy Ruth.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000083">If he had seen the malicious merriment in her eyes he would have been more humiliated still,</span>
   <span id="f000084">but they were modestly averted,</span>
   <span id="f000085">and the face under the little hat was full of a soft agitation rather dangerous even to a man of the world.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000086">“She is a captivating little creature,</span>
   <span id="f000087">but it is too soon for anything but a mild flirtation.</span>
   <span id="f000088">I must delay further innocent revelations or I shall do something rash.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000089">While making this excellent resolution Randal had been pressing the hand upon his arm and gently pacing down the dimly lighted hall with the sound of music in his ears,</span>
   <span id="f000090">Ruth’s sweetest roses in his button-hole,</span>
   <span id="f000091">and a loving little girl beside him,</span>
   <span id="f000092">as he thought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000093">“You shall tell me by and by when we are in town.</span>
   <span id="f000094">I am sure you will come,</span>
   <span id="f000095">and meanwhile don’t forget me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000096">“I am going in the spring,</span>
   <span id="f000097">but I shall not be with Sophie,” answered Ruth,</span>
   <span id="f000098">in a whisper.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000099">“With whom then?</span>
   <span id="f000100">I shall long to see you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000101">“With my husband.</span>
   <span id="f000102">I am to be married in May.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“The deuce you are!” escaped Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000104">as he stopped short to stare at his companion,</span>
   <span id="f000105">sure she was not in earnest.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000106">But she was,</span>
   <span id="f000107">for as he looked the sound of steps coming up the back stairs made her whole face flush and brighten with the unmistakable glow of happy love,</span>
   <span id="f000108">and she completed Randal’s astonishment by running into the arms of the young minister,</span>
   <span id="f000109">saying with an irrepressible laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000110">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000111">John,</span>
   <span id="f000112">why didn’t you come before?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000113">The court gentleman was all right in a moment,</span>
   <span id="f000114">and the coolest of the three as he offered his congratulations and gracefully retired,</span>
   <span id="f000115">leaving the lovers to enjoy the tryst he had delayed.</span>
   <span id="f000116">But as he went down stairs his brows were knit,</span>
   <span id="f000117">and he slapped the broad railing smartly with his cocked hat as if some irritation must find vent in a more energetic way than merely saying,</span>
   <span id="f000118">“Confound the little baggage!” under his breath.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">Such an amazing supper came from Aunt Plumy’s big pantry that the city guests could not eat for laughing at the queer dishes circulating through the rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000120">and copiously partaken of by the hearty young folks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000121">Doughnuts and cheese,</span>
   <span id="f000122">pie and pickles,</span>
   <span id="f000123">cider and tea,</span>
   <span id="f000124">baked beans and custards,</span>
   <span id="f000125">cake and cold turkey,</span>
   <span id="f000126">bread and butter,</span>
   <span id="f000127">plum pudding and French bonbons,</span>
   <span id="f000128">Sophie’s contribution.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000129">“May I offer you the native delicacies,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and share your plate?</span>
   <span id="f000131">Both are very good,</span>
   <span id="f000132">but the china has run short,</span>
   <span id="f000133">and after such vigorous exercise as you have had you must need refreshment.</span>
   <span id="f000134">I’m sure I do!” said Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000135">bowing before Emily with a great blue platter laden with two doughnuts,</span>
   <span id="f000136">two wedges of pumpkin pie and two spoons.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000137">The smile with which she welcomed him,</span>
   <span id="f000138">the alacrity with which she made room beside her and seemed to enjoy the supper he brought,</span>
   <span id="f000139">was so soothing to his ruffled spirit that he soon began to feel that there is no friend like an old friend,</span>
   <span id="f000140">that it would not be difficult to name a sweet woman who would take him in hand and would make him happy if he cared to ask her,</span>
   <span id="f000141">and he began to think he would by and by,</span>
   <span id="f000142">it was so pleasant to sit in that green corner with waves of crimson brocade flowing over his feet,</span>
   <span id="f000143">and a fine face softening beautifully under his eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">The supper was not romantic,</span>
   <span id="f000145">but the situation was,</span>
   <span id="f000146">and Emily found that pie ambrosial food eaten with the man she loved,</span>
   <span id="f000147">whose eyes talked more eloquently than the tongue just then busy with a doughnut.</span>
   <span id="f000148">Ruth kept away,</span>
   <span id="f000149">but glanced at them as she served her company,</span>
   <span id="f000150">and her own happy experience helped her to see that all was going well in that quarter.</span>
   <span id="f000151">Saul and Sophie emerged from the back entry with shining countenances,</span>
   <span id="f000152">but carefully avoided each other for the rest of the evening.</span>
   <span id="f000153">No one observed this but Aunt Plumy from the recesses of her pantry,</span>
   <span id="f000154">and she folded her hands as if well content,</span>
   <span id="f000155">as she murmured fervently over a pan full of crullers,</span>
   <span id="f000156">“Bless the dears!</span>
   <span id="f000157">Now I can die happy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000158">Every one thought Sophie’s old-fashioned dress immensely becoming,</span>
   <span id="f000159">and several of his former men said to Saul with blunt admiration,</span>
   <span id="f000160">“Major,</span>
   <span id="f000161">you look to-night as you used to after we’d gained a big battle.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000162">“I feel as if I had,” answered the splendid Major,</span>
   <span id="f000163">with eyes much brighter than his buttons,</span>
   <span id="f000164">and a heart under them infinitely prouder than when he was promoted on the field of honor,</span>
   <span id="f000165">for his Waterloo was won.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000166">There was more dancing,</span>
   <span id="f000167">followed by games,</span>
   <span id="f000168">in which Aunt Plumy shone pre-eminent,</span>
   <span id="f000169">for the supper was off her mind and she could enjoy herself.</span>
   <span id="f000170">There were shouts of merriment as the blithe old lady twirled the platter,</span>
   <span id="f000171">hunted the squirrel,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and went to Jerusalem like a girl of sixteen;</span>
   <span id="f000173">her cap in a ruinous condition,</span>
   <span id="f000174">and every seam of the purple dress straining like sails in a gale.</span>
   <span id="f000175">It was great fun,</span>
   <span id="f000176">but at midnight it came to an end,</span>
   <span id="f000177">and the young folks,</span>
   <span id="f000178">still bubbling over with innocent jollity,</span>
   <span id="f000179">went jingling away along the snowy hills,</span>
   <span id="f000180">unanimously pronouncing Mrs.&#160;Basset’s party the best of the season.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“Never had such a good time in my life!” exclaimed Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000182">as the family stood together in the kitchen where the candles among the wreaths were going out,</span>
   <span id="f000183">and the floor was strewn with wrecks of past joy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000184">“I’m proper glad,</span>
   <span id="f000185">dear.</span>
   <span id="f000186">Now you all go to bed and lay as late as you like to-morrow.</span>
   <span id="f000187">I’m so kinder worked up I couldn’t sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000188">so Saul and me will put things to rights without a mite of noise to disturb you;” and Aunt Plumy sent them off with a smile that was a benediction,</span>
   <span id="f000189">Sophie thought.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000190">“The dear old soul speaks as if midnight was an unheard-of hour for Christians to be up.</span>
   <span id="f000191">What would she say if she knew how we seldom go to bed till dawn in the ball season?</span>
   <span id="f000192">I’m so wide awake I’ve half a mind to pack a little.</span>
   <span id="f000193">Randal must go at two,</span>
   <span id="f000194">he says,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and we shall want his escort,” said Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000196">as the girls laid away their brocades in the press in Sophie’s room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000197">“I’m not going.</span>
   <span id="f000198">Aunt can’t spare me,</span>
   <span id="f000199">and there is nothing to go for yet,” answered Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000200">beginning to take the white chrysanthemums out of her pretty hair.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000201">“My dear child,</span>
   <span id="f000202">you will die of ennui up here.</span>
   <span id="f000203">Very nice for a week or so,</span>
   <span id="f000204">but frightful for a winter.</span>
   <span id="f000205">We are going to be very gay,</span>
   <span id="f000206">and cannot get on without you,” cried Emily dismayed at the suggestion.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000207">“You will have to,</span>
   <span id="f000208">for I’m not coming.</span>
   <span id="f000209">I am very happy here,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and so tired of the frivolous life I lead in town,</span>
   <span id="f000211">that I have decided to try a better one,” and Sophie’s mirror reflected a face full of the sweetest content.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000212">“Have you lost your mind?</span>
   <span id="f000213">experienced religion?</span>
   <span id="f000214">or any other dreadful thing?</span>
   <span id="f000215">You always were odd,</span>
   <span id="f000216">but this last freak is the strangest of all.</span>
   <span id="f000217">What will your guardian say,</span>
   <span id="f000218">and the world?” added Emily in the awe-stricken tone of one who stood in fear of the omnipotent Mrs.&#160;Grundy.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000219">“Guardy will be glad to be rid of me,</span>
   <span id="f000220">and I don’t care that for the world,” cried Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000221">snapping her fingers with a joyful sort of recklessness which completed Emily’s bewilderment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">“But Mr.&#160;Hammond?</span>
   <span id="f000223">Are you going to throw away millions,</span>
   <span id="f000224">lose your chance of making the best match in the city,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and driving the girls of our set out of their wits with envy?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">Sophie laughed at her friend’s despairing cry,</span>
   <span id="f000227">and turning round said quietly,</span>
   <span id="f000228">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000229">“I wrote to Mr.&#160;Hammond last night,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and this evening received my reward for being an honest girl.</span>
   <span id="f000231">Saul and I are to be married in the spring when Ruth is.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000232">Emily fell prone upon the bed as if the announcement was too much for her,</span>
   <span id="f000233">but was up again in an instant to declare with prophetic solemnity,</span>
   <span id="f000234">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000235">“I knew something was going on,</span>
   <span id="f000236">but hoped to get you away before you were lost.</span>
   <span id="f000237">Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000238">you will repent.</span>
   <span id="f000239">Be warned,</span>
   <span id="f000240">and forget this sad delusion.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000241">“Too late for that.</span>
   <span id="f000242">The pang I suffered yesterday when I thought Saul was dead showed me how well I loved him.</span>
   <span id="f000243">To-night he asked me to stay,</span>
   <span id="f000244">and no power in the world can part us.</span>
   <span id="f000245">Oh!</span>
   <span id="f000246">Emily,</span>
   <span id="f000247">it is all so sweet,</span>
   <span id="f000248">so beautiful,</span>
   <span id="f000249">that <em>everything</em> is possible,</span>
   <span id="f000250">and I know I shall be happy in this dear old home,</span>
   <span id="f000251">full of love and peace and honest hearts.</span>
   <span id="f000252">I only hope you may find as true and tender a man to live for as my Saul.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000253">Sophie’s face was more eloquent than her fervent words,</span>
   <span id="f000254">and Emily beautifully illustrated the inconsistency of her sex by suddenly embracing her friend,</span>
   <span id="f000255">with the incoherent exclamation,</span>
   <span id="f000256">“I think I have,</span>
   <span id="f000257">dear!</span>
   <span id="f000258">Your brave Saul is worth a dozen old Hammonds,</span>
   <span id="f000259">and I do believe you are right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000260">It is unnecessary to tell how,</span>
   <span id="f000261">as if drawn by the irresistible magic of sympathy,</span>
   <span id="f000262">Ruth and her mother crept in one by one to join the midnight conference and add their smiles and tears,</span>
   <span id="f000263">tender hopes and proud delight to the joys of that memorable hour.</span>
   <span id="f000264">Nor how Saul,</span>
   <span id="f000265">unable to sleep,</span>
   <span id="f000266">mounted guard below,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and meeting Randal prowling down to soothe his nerves with a surreptitious cigar found it impossible to help confiding to his attentive ear the happiness that would break bounds and overflow in unusual eloquence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000268">Peace fell upon the old house at last,</span>
   <span id="f000269">and all slept as if some magic herb had touched their eyelids,</span>
   <span id="f000270">bringing blissful dreams and a glad awakening.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000271">“Can’t we persuade you to come with us,</span>
   <span id="f000272">Miss Sophie?” asked Randal next day,</span>
   <span id="f000273">as they made their adieux.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000274">“I’m under orders now,</span>
   <span id="f000275">and dare not disobey my superior officer,” answered Sophie,</span>
   <span id="f000276">handing her Major his driving gloves,</span>
   <span id="f000277">with a look which plainly showed that she had joined the great army of devoted women who enlist for life and ask no pay but love.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">“I shall depend on being invited to your wedding,</span>
   <span id="f000279">then,</span>
   <span id="f000280">and yours,</span>
   <span id="f000281">too,</span>
   <span id="f000282">Miss Ruth,” added Randal,</span>
   <span id="f000283">shaking hands with “the little baggage,” as if he had quite forgiven her mockery and forgotten his own brief lapse into sentiment.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">Before she could reply Aunt Plumy said,</span>
   <span id="f000285">in a tone of calm conviction,</span>
   <span id="f000286">that made them all laugh,</span>
   <span id="f000287">and some of them look conscious,</span>
   <span id="f000288">–</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000289">“Spring is a good time for weddin’s,</span>
   <span id="f000290">and I shouldn’t wonder ef there was quite a number.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000291">“Nor I;” and Saul and Sophie smiled at one another as they saw how carefully Randal arranged Emily’s wraps.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">Then with kisses,</span>
   <span id="f000293">thanks and all the good wishes that happy hearts could imagine,</span>
   <span id="f000294">the guests drove away,</span>
   <span id="f000295">to remember long and gratefully that pleasant country Christmas.</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a href="p004.xhtml#audio">[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track05">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

