<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
 <head>
  <meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style.css" type="text/css"/>
  <title></title>
 </head>
 <body>
  <section epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
   <hr id="audio" class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000001">This is a LibriVox recording</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000002">All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain</span></p>
   <p class="titleCopyright"><span id="f000003">For more information or to volunteer please visit librivox.org</span></p>
   <p class="titleNarrator"><span id="f000004">Recording by<br />Mark F. Smith</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleBookTitle"><span id="f000005">The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes</span></h1>
   <p class="titleAuthor"><span id="f000006">by<br />Sir Arthur Conan Doyle</span></p>
   <h1 class="titleStoryTitle"><span id="f000007">Adventure IX<br />The Adventure of the Engineer’s Thumb</span></h1>
   <hr class="separator" />
   <p><span id="f000008">Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000009">Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000010">for solution during the years of our intimacy,</span>
   <span id="f000011">there were only two which I was the means of introducing to his notice – that of Mr.&#160;Hatherley’s thumb,</span>
   <span id="f000012">and that of Colonel Warburton’s madness.</span>
   <span id="f000013">Of these the latter may have afforded a finer field for an acute and original observer,</span>
   <span id="f000014">but the other was so strange in its inception and so dramatic in its details that it may be the more worthy of being placed upon record,</span>
   <span id="f000015">even if it gave my friend fewer openings for those deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable results.</span>
   <span id="f000016">The story has,</span>
   <span id="f000017">I believe,</span>
   <span id="f000018">been told more than once in the newspapers,</span>
   <span id="f000019">but,</span>
   <span id="f000020">like all such narratives,</span>
   <span id="f000021">its effect is much less striking when set forth en bloc in a single half-column of print than when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes,</span>
   <span id="f000022">and the mystery clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads on to the complete truth.</span>
   <span id="f000023">At the time the circumstances made a deep impression upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000024">and the lapse of two years has hardly served to weaken the effect.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000025">It was in the summer of ’89,</span>
   <span id="f000026">not long after my marriage,</span>
   <span id="f000027">that the events occurred which I am now about to summarise.</span>
   <span id="f000028">I had returned to civil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street rooms,</span>
   <span id="f000029">although I continually visited him and occasionally even persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as to come and visit us.</span>
   <span id="f000030">My practice had steadily increased,</span>
   <span id="f000031">and as I happened to live at no very great distance from Paddington Station,</span>
   <span id="f000032">I got a few patients from among the officials.</span>
   <span id="f000033">One of these,</span>
   <span id="f000034">whom I had cured of a painful and lingering disease,</span>
   <span id="f000035">was never weary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any influence.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000036">One morning,</span>
   <span id="f000037">at a little before seven o’clock,</span>
   <span id="f000038">I was awakened by the maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room.</span>
   <span id="f000039">I dressed hurriedly,</span>
   <span id="f000040">for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial,</span>
   <span id="f000041">and hastened downstairs.</span>
   <span id="f000042">As I descended,</span>
   <span id="f000043">my old ally,</span>
   <span id="f000044">the guard,</span>
   <span id="f000045">came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000046">“I’ve got him here,” he whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000047">jerking his thumb over his shoulder;</span>
   <span id="f000048">“he’s all right.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000049">“What is it,</span>
   <span id="f000050">then?” I asked,</span>
   <span id="f000051">for his manner suggested that it was some strange creature which he had caged up in my room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000052">“It’s a new patient,” he whispered.</span>
   <span id="f000053">“I thought I’d bring him round myself;</span>
   <span id="f000054">then he couldn’t slip away.</span>
   <span id="f000055">There he is,</span>
   <span id="f000056">all safe and sound.</span>
   <span id="f000057">I must go now,</span>
   <span id="f000058">Doctor;</span>
   <span id="f000059">I have my dooties,</span>
   <span id="f000060">just the same as you.” And off he went,</span>
   <span id="f000061">this trusty tout,</span>
   <span id="f000062">without even giving me time to thank him.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000063">I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table.</span>
   <span id="f000064">He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a soft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books.</span>
   <span id="f000065">Round one of his hands he had a handkerchief wrapped,</span>
   <span id="f000066">which was mottled all over with bloodstains.</span>
   <span id="f000067">He was young,</span>
   <span id="f000068">not more than five-and-twenty,</span>
   <span id="f000069">I should say,</span>
   <span id="f000070">with a strong,</span>
   <span id="f000071">masculine face;</span>
   <span id="f000072">but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression of a man who was suffering from some strong agitation,</span>
   <span id="f000073">which it took all his strength of mind to control.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000074">“I am sorry to knock you up so early,</span>
   <span id="f000075">Doctor,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000076">“but I have had a very serious accident during the night.</span>
   <span id="f000077">I came in by train this morning,</span>
   <span id="f000078">and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000079">a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here.</span>
   <span id="f000080">I gave the maid a card,</span>
   <span id="f000081">but I see that she has left it upon the side-table.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000082">I took it up and glanced at it.</span>
   <span id="f000083">“Mr.&#160;Victor Hatherley,</span>
   <span id="f000084">hydraulic engineer,</span>
   <span id="f000085">16A,</span>
   <span id="f000086">Victoria Street</span>
   <span id="f000087">(3rd floor).” That was the name,</span>
   <span id="f000088">style,</span>
   <span id="f000089">and abode of my morning visitor.</span>
   <span id="f000090">“I regret that I have kept you waiting,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000091">sitting down in my library-chair.</span>
   <span id="f000092">“You are fresh from a night journey,</span>
   <span id="f000093">I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000094">which is in itself a monotonous occupation.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000095">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000096">my night could not be called monotonous,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000097">and laughed.</span>
   <span id="f000098">He laughed very heartily,</span>
   <span id="f000099">with a high,</span>
   <span id="f000100">ringing note,</span>
   <span id="f000101">leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides.</span>
   <span id="f000102">All my medical instincts rose up against that laugh.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000103">“Stop it!” I cried;</span>
   <span id="f000104">“pull yourself together!” and I poured out some water from a caraffe.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000105">It was useless,</span>
   <span id="f000106">however.</span>
   <span id="f000107">He was off in one of those hysterical outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is over and gone.</span>
   <span id="f000108">Presently he came to himself once more,</span>
   <span id="f000109">very weary and pale-looking.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000110">“I have been making a fool of myself,” he gasped.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000111">“Not at all.</span>
   <span id="f000112">Drink this.” I dashed some brandy into the water,</span>
   <span id="f000113">and the colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000114">“That’s better!” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000115">“And now,</span>
   <span id="f000116">Doctor,</span>
   <span id="f000117">perhaps you would kindly attend to my thumb,</span>
   <span id="f000118">or rather to the place where my thumb used to be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000119">He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand.</span>
   <span id="f000120">It gave even my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it.</span>
   <span id="f000121">There were four protruding fingers and a horrid red,</span>
   <span id="f000122">spongy surface where the thumb should have been.</span>
   <span id="f000123">It had been hacked or torn right out from the roots.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000124">“Good heavens!” I cried,</span>
   <span id="f000125">“this is a terrible injury.</span>
   <span id="f000126">It must have bled considerably.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000127">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000128">it did.</span>
   <span id="f000129">I fainted when it was done,</span>
   <span id="f000130">and I think that I must have been senseless for a long time.</span>
   <span id="f000131">When I came to I found that it was still bleeding,</span>
   <span id="f000132">so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round the wrist and braced it up with a twig.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000133">“Excellent!</span>
   <span id="f000134">You should have been a surgeon.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000135">“It is a question of hydraulics,</span>
   <span id="f000136">you see,</span>
   <span id="f000137">and came within my own province.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000138">“This has been done,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000139">examining the wound,</span>
   <span id="f000140">“by a very heavy and sharp instrument.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000141">“A thing like a cleaver,” said he.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000142">“An accident,</span>
   <span id="f000143">I presume?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000144">“By no means.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000145">“What!</span>
   <span id="f000146">a murderous attack?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000147">“Very murderous indeed.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000148">“You horrify me.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000149">I sponged the wound,</span>
   <span id="f000150">cleaned it,</span>
   <span id="f000151">dressed it,</span>
   <span id="f000152">and finally covered it over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages.</span>
   <span id="f000153">He lay back without wincing,</span>
   <span id="f000154">though he bit his lip from time to time.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000155">“How is that?” I asked when I had finished.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000156">“Capital!</span>
   <span id="f000157">Between your brandy and your bandage,</span>
   <span id="f000158">I feel a new man.</span>
   <span id="f000159">I was very weak,</span>
   <span id="f000160">but I have had a good deal to go through.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000161">“Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter.</span>
   <span id="f000162">It is evidently trying to your nerves.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000163">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000164">no,</span>
   <span id="f000165">not now.</span>
   <span id="f000166">I shall have to tell my tale to the police;</span>
   <span id="f000167">but,</span>
   <span id="f000168">between ourselves,</span>
   <span id="f000169">if it were not for the convincing evidence of this wound of mine,</span>
   <span id="f000170">I should be surprised if they believed my statement,</span>
   <span id="f000171">for it is a very extraordinary one,</span>
   <span id="f000172">and I have not much in the way of proof with which to back it up;</span>
   <span id="f000173">and,</span>
   <span id="f000174">even if they believe me,</span>
   <span id="f000175">the clues which I can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will be done.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000176">“Ha!” cried I,</span>
   <span id="f000177">“if it is anything in the nature of a problem which you desire to see solved,</span>
   <span id="f000178">I should strongly recommend you to come to my friend,</span>
   <span id="f000179">Mr.&#160;Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000180">before you go to the official police.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000181">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000182">I have heard of that fellow,” answered my visitor,</span>
   <span id="f000183">“and I should be very glad if he would take the matter up,</span>
   <span id="f000184">though of course I must use the official police as well.</span>
   <span id="f000185">Would you give me an introduction to him?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000186">“I’ll do better.</span>
   <span id="f000187">I’ll take you round to him myself.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000188">“I should be immensely obliged to you.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000189">“We’ll call a cab and go together.</span>
   <span id="f000190">We shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him.</span>
   <span id="f000191">Do you feel equal to it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000192">“Yes;</span>
   <span id="f000193">I shall not feel easy until I have told my story.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000194">“Then my servant will call a cab,</span>
   <span id="f000195">and I shall be with you in an instant.” I rushed upstairs,</span>
   <span id="f000196">explained the matter shortly to my wife,</span>
   <span id="f000197">and in five minutes was inside a hansom,</span>
   <span id="f000198">driving with my new acquaintance to Baker Street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000199">Sherlock Holmes was,</span>
   <span id="f000200">as I expected,</span>
   <span id="f000201">lounging about his sitting-room in his dressing-gown,</span>
   <span id="f000202">reading the agony column of The Times and smoking his before-breakfast pipe,</span>
   <span id="f000203">which was composed of all the plugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day before,</span>
   <span id="f000204">all carefully dried and collected on the corner of the mantelpiece.</span>
   <span id="f000205">He received us in his quietly genial fashion,</span>
   <span id="f000206">ordered fresh rashers and eggs,</span>
   <span id="f000207">and joined us in a hearty meal.</span>
   <span id="f000208">When it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance upon the sofa,</span>
   <span id="f000209">placed a pillow beneath his head,</span>
   <span id="f000210">and laid a glass of brandy and water within his reach.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000211">“It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one,</span>
   <span id="f000212">Mr.&#160;Hatherley,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000213">“Pray,</span>
   <span id="f000214">lie down there and make yourself absolutely at home.</span>
   <span id="f000215">Tell us what you can,</span>
   <span id="f000216">but stop when you are tired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000217">“Thank you,” said my patient,</span>
   <span id="f000218">“but I have felt another man since the doctor bandaged me,</span>
   <span id="f000219">and I think that your breakfast has completed the cure.</span>
   <span id="f000220">I shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible,</span>
   <span id="f000221">so I shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000222">Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary,</span>
   <span id="f000223">heavy-lidded expression which veiled his keen and eager nature,</span>
   <span id="f000224">while I sat opposite to him,</span>
   <span id="f000225">and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor detailed to us.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000226">“You must know,” said he,</span>
   <span id="f000227">"that I am an orphan and a bachelor,</span>
   <span id="f000228">residing alone in lodgings in London.</span>
   <span id="f000229">By profession I am a hydraulic engineer,</span>
   <span id="f000230">and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven years that I was apprenticed to Venner &amp;</span>
   <span id="f000231">Matheson,</span>
   <span id="f000232">the well-known firm,</span>
   <span id="f000233">of Greenwich.</span>
   <span id="f000234">Two years ago,</span>
   <span id="f000235">having served my time,</span>
   <span id="f000236">and having also come into a fair sum of money through my poor father’s death,</span>
   <span id="f000237">I determined to start in business for myself and took professional chambers in Victoria Street.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000238">I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business a dreary experience.</span>
   <span id="f000239">To me it has been exceptionally so.</span>
   <span id="f000240">During two years I have had three consultations and one small job,</span>
   <span id="f000241">and that is absolutely all that my profession has brought me.</span>
   <span id="f000242">My gross takings amount to 27 pounds 10s.</span>
   <span id="f000243">Every day,</span>
   <span id="f000244">from nine in the morning until four in the afternoon,</span>
   <span id="f000245">I waited in my little den,</span>
   <span id="f000246">until at last my heart began to sink,</span>
   <span id="f000247">and I came to believe that I should never have any practice at all.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000248">Yesterday,</span>
   <span id="f000249">however,</span>
   <span id="f000250">just as I was thinking of leaving the office,</span>
   <span id="f000251">my clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who wished to see me upon business.</span>
   <span id="f000252">He brought up a card,</span>
   <span id="f000253">too,</span>
   <span id="f000254">with the name of ’Colonel Lysander Stark’ engraved upon it.</span>
   <span id="f000255">Close at his heels came the colonel himself,</span>
   <span id="f000256">a man rather over the middle size,</span>
   <span id="f000257">but of an exceeding thinness.</span>
   <span id="f000258">I do not think that I have ever seen so thin a man.</span>
   <span id="f000259">His whole face sharpened away into nose and chin,</span>
   <span id="f000260">and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones.</span>
   <span id="f000261">Yet this emaciation seemed to be his natural habit,</span>
   <span id="f000262">and due to no disease,</span>
   <span id="f000263">for his eye was bright,</span>
   <span id="f000264">his step brisk,</span>
   <span id="f000265">and his bearing assured.</span>
   <span id="f000266">He was plainly but neatly dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000267">and his age,</span>
   <span id="f000268">I should judge,</span>
   <span id="f000269">would be nearer forty than thirty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000270">’Mr.&#160;Hatherley?’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000271">with something of a German accent.</span>
   <span id="f000272">’You have been recommended to me,</span>
   <span id="f000273">Mr.&#160;Hatherley,</span>
   <span id="f000274">as being a man who is not only proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of preserving a secret.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000275">I bowed,</span>
   <span id="f000276">feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an address.</span>
   <span id="f000277">’May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000278">’Well,</span>
   <span id="f000279">perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just at this moment.</span>
   <span id="f000280">I have it from the same source that you are both an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000281">’That is quite correct,’ I answered;</span>
   <span id="f000282">’but you will excuse me if I say that I cannot see how all this bears upon my professional qualifications.</span>
   <span id="f000283">I understand that it was on a professional matter that you wished to speak to me?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000284">’Undoubtedly so.</span>
   <span id="f000285">But you will find that all I say is really to the point.</span>
   <span id="f000286">I have a professional commission for you,</span>
   <span id="f000287">but absolute secrecy is quite essential – absolute secrecy,</span>
   <span id="f000288">you understand,</span>
   <span id="f000289">and of course we may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in the bosom of his family.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000290">’If I promise to keep a secret,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000291">’you may absolutely depend upon my doing so.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000292">He looked very hard at me as I spoke,</span>
   <span id="f000293">and it seemed to me that I had never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000294">’Do you promise,</span>
   <span id="f000295">then?’ said he at last.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000296">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000297">I promise.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000298">’Absolute and complete silence before,</span>
   <span id="f000299">during,</span>
   <span id="f000300">and after?</span>
   <span id="f000301">No reference to the matter at all,</span>
   <span id="f000302">either in word or writing?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000303">’I have already given you my word.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000304">’Very good.’ He suddenly sprang up,</span>
   <span id="f000305">and darting like lightning across the room he flung open the door.</span>
   <span id="f000306">The passage outside was empty.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000307">’That’s all right,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000308">coming back.</span>
   <span id="f000309">’I know that clerks are sometimes curious as to their master’s affairs.</span>
   <span id="f000310">Now we can talk in safety.’ He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000311">A feeling of repulsion,</span>
   <span id="f000312">and of something akin to fear had begun to rise within me at the strange antics of this fleshless man.</span>
   <span id="f000313">Even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000314">’I beg that you will state your business,</span>
   <span id="f000315">sir,’ said I;</span>
   <span id="f000316">’my time is of value.’ Heaven forgive me for that last sentence,</span>
   <span id="f000317">but the words came to my lips.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000318">’How would fifty guineas for a night’s work suit you?’ he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000319">’Most admirably.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000320">’I say a night’s work,</span>
   <span id="f000321">but an hour’s would be nearer the mark.</span>
   <span id="f000322">I simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has got out of gear.</span>
   <span id="f000323">If you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it right ourselves.</span>
   <span id="f000324">What do you think of such a commission as that?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000325">’The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000326">’Precisely so.</span>
   <span id="f000327">We shall want you to come to-night by the last train.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000328">’Where to?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000329">’To Eyford,</span>
   <span id="f000330">in Berkshire.</span>
   <span id="f000331">It is a little place near the borders of Oxfordshire,</span>
   <span id="f000332">and within seven miles of Reading.</span>
   <span id="f000333">There is a train from Paddington which would bring you there at about 11:15.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000334">’Very good.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000335">’I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000336">’There is a drive,</span>
   <span id="f000337">then?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000338">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000339">our little place is quite out in the country.</span>
   <span id="f000340">It is a good seven miles from Eyford Station.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000341">’Then we can hardly get there before midnight.</span>
   <span id="f000342">I suppose there would be no chance of a train back.</span>
   <span id="f000343">I should be compelled to stop the night.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000344">’Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000345">we could easily give you a shake-down.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000346">’That is very awkward.</span>
   <span id="f000347">Could I not come at some more convenient hour?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000348">’We have judged it best that you should come late.</span>
   <span id="f000349">It is to recompense you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you,</span>
   <span id="f000350">a young and unknown man,</span>
   <span id="f000351">a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of your profession.</span>
   <span id="f000352">Still,</span>
   <span id="f000353">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000354">if you would like to draw out of the business,</span>
   <span id="f000355">there is plenty of time to do so.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000356">I thought of the fifty guineas,</span>
   <span id="f000357">and of how very useful they would be to me.</span>
   <span id="f000358">’Not at all,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000359">’I shall be very happy to accommodate myself to your wishes.</span>
   <span id="f000360">I should like,</span>
   <span id="f000361">however,</span>
   <span id="f000362">to understand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to do.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000363">’Quite so.</span>
   <span id="f000364">It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which we have exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000365">I have no wish to commit you to anything without your having it all laid before you.</span>
   <span id="f000366">I suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000367">’Entirely.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000368">’Then the matter stands thus.</span>
   <span id="f000369">You are probably aware that fuller’s-earth is a valuable product,</span>
   <span id="f000370">and that it is only found in one or two places in England?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000371">’I have heard so.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000372">’Some little time ago I bought a small place – a very small place – within ten miles of Reading.</span>
   <span id="f000373">I was fortunate enough to discover that there was a deposit of fuller’s-earth in one of my fields.</span>
   <span id="f000374">On examining it,</span>
   <span id="f000375">however,</span>
   <span id="f000376">I found that this deposit was a comparatively small one,</span>
   <span id="f000377">and that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right and left – both of them,</span>
   <span id="f000378">however,</span>
   <span id="f000379">in the grounds of my neighbours.</span>
   <span id="f000380">These good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was quite as valuable as a gold-mine.</span>
   <span id="f000381">Naturally,</span>
   <span id="f000382">it was to my interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value,</span>
   <span id="f000383">but unfortunately I had no capital by which I could do this.</span>
   <span id="f000384">I took a few of my friends into the secret,</span>
   <span id="f000385">however,</span>
   <span id="f000386">and they suggested that we should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in this way we should earn the money which would enable us to buy the neighbouring fields.</span>
   <span id="f000387">This we have now been doing for some time,</span>
   <span id="f000388">and in order to help us in our operations we erected a hydraulic press.</span>
   <span id="f000389">This press,</span>
   <span id="f000390">as I have already explained,</span>
   <span id="f000391">has got out of order,</span>
   <span id="f000392">and we wish your advice upon the subject.</span>
   <span id="f000393">We guard our secret very jealously,</span>
   <span id="f000394">however,</span>
   <span id="f000395">and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers coming to our little house,</span>
   <span id="f000396">it would soon rouse inquiry,</span>
   <span id="f000397">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000398">if the facts came out,</span>
   <span id="f000399">it would be good-bye to any chance of getting these fields and carrying out our plans.</span>
   <span id="f000400">That is why I have made you promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to Eyford to-night.</span>
   <span id="f000401">I hope that I make it all plain?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000402">’I quite follow you,’ said I.</span>
   <span id="f000403">’The only point which I could not quite understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in excavating fuller’s-earth,</span>
   <span id="f000404">which,</span>
   <span id="f000405">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f000406">is dug out like gravel from a pit.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000407">’Ah!’ said he carelessly,</span>
   <span id="f000408">’we have our own process.</span>
   <span id="f000409">We compress the earth into bricks,</span>
   <span id="f000410">so as to remove them without revealing what they are.</span>
   <span id="f000411">But that is a mere detail.</span>
   <span id="f000412">I have taken you fully into my confidence now,</span>
   <span id="f000413">Mr.&#160;Hatherley,</span>
   <span id="f000414">and I have shown you how I trust you.’ He rose as he spoke.</span>
   <span id="f000415">’I shall expect you,</span>
   <span id="f000416">then,</span>
   <span id="f000417">at Eyford at 11:15.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000418">’I shall certainly be there.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000419">’And not a word to a soul.’ He looked at me with a last long,</span>
   <span id="f000420">questioning gaze,</span>
   <span id="f000421">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000422">pressing my hand in a cold,</span>
   <span id="f000423">dank grasp,</span>
   <span id="f000424">he hurried from the room.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000425">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000426">when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was very much astonished,</span>
   <span id="f000427">as you may both think,</span>
   <span id="f000428">at this sudden commission which had been intrusted to me.</span>
   <span id="f000429">On the one hand,</span>
   <span id="f000430">of course,</span>
   <span id="f000431">I was glad,</span>
   <span id="f000432">for the fee was at least tenfold what I should have asked had I set a price upon my own services,</span>
   <span id="f000433">and it was possible that this order might lead to other ones.</span>
   <span id="f000434">On the other hand,</span>
   <span id="f000435">the face and manner of my patron had made an unpleasant impression upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000436">and I could not think that his explanation of the fuller’s-earth was sufficient to explain the necessity for my coming at midnight,</span>
   <span id="f000437">and his extreme anxiety lest I should tell anyone of my errand.</span>
   <span id="f000438">However,</span>
   <span id="f000439">I threw all fears to the winds,</span>
   <span id="f000440">ate a hearty supper,</span>
   <span id="f000441">drove to Paddington,</span>
   <span id="f000442">and started off,</span>
   <span id="f000443">having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000444">“At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station.</span>
   <span id="f000445">However,</span>
   <span id="f000446">I was in time for the last train to Eyford,</span>
   <span id="f000447">and I reached the little dim-lit station after eleven o’clock.</span>
   <span id="f000448">I was the only passenger who got out there,</span>
   <span id="f000449">and there was no one upon the platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern.</span>
   <span id="f000450">As I passed out through the wicket gate,</span>
   <span id="f000451">however,</span>
   <span id="f000452">I found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side.</span>
   <span id="f000453">Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage,</span>
   <span id="f000454">the door of which was standing open.</span>
   <span id="f000455">He drew up the windows on either side,</span>
   <span id="f000456">tapped on the wood-work,</span>
   <span id="f000457">and away we went as fast as the horse could go.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000458">“One horse?” interjected Holmes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000459">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000460">only one.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000461">“Did you observe the colour?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000462">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000463">I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the carriage.</span>
   <span id="f000464">It was a chestnut.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000465">“Tired-looking or fresh?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000466">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000467">fresh and glossy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000468">“Thank you.</span>
   <span id="f000469">I am sorry to have interrupted you.</span>
   <span id="f000470">Pray continue your most interesting statement.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000471">Away we went then,</span>
   <span id="f000472">and we drove for at least an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000473">Colonel Lysander Stark had said that it was only seven miles,</span>
   <span id="f000474">but I should think,</span>
   <span id="f000475">from the rate that we seemed to go,</span>
   <span id="f000476">and from the time that we took,</span>
   <span id="f000477">that it must have been nearer twelve.</span>
   <span id="f000478">He sat at my side in silence all the time,</span>
   <span id="f000479">and I was aware,</span>
   <span id="f000480">more than once when I glanced in his direction,</span>
   <span id="f000481">that he was looking at me with great intensity.</span>
   <span id="f000482">The country roads seem to be not very good in that part of the world,</span>
   <span id="f000483">for we lurched and jolted terribly.</span>
   <span id="f000484">I tried to look out of the windows to see something of where we were,</span>
   <span id="f000485">but they were made of frosted glass,</span>
   <span id="f000486">and I could make out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light.</span>
   <span id="f000487">Now and then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey,</span>
   <span id="f000488">but the colonel answered only in monosyllables,</span>
   <span id="f000489">and the conversation soon flagged.</span>
   <span id="f000490">At last,</span>
   <span id="f000491">however,</span>
   <span id="f000492">the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive,</span>
   <span id="f000493">and the carriage came to a stand.</span>
   <span id="f000494">Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out,</span>
   <span id="f000495">and,</span>
   <span id="f000496">as I followed after him,</span>
   <span id="f000497">pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us.</span>
   <span id="f000498">We stepped,</span>
   <span id="f000499">as it were,</span>
   <span id="f000500">right out of the carriage and into the hall,</span>
   <span id="f000501">so that I failed to catch the most fleeting glance of the front of the house.</span>
   <span id="f000502">The instant that I had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us,</span>
   <span id="f000503">and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000504">It was pitch dark inside the house,</span>
   <span id="f000505">and the colonel fumbled about looking for matches and muttering under his breath.</span>
   <span id="f000506">Suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000507">and a long,</span>
   <span id="f000508">golden bar of light shot out in our direction.</span>
   <span id="f000509">It grew broader,</span>
   <span id="f000510">and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand,</span>
   <span id="f000511">which she held above her head,</span>
   <span id="f000512">pushing her face forward and peering at us.</span>
   <span id="f000513">I could see that she was pretty,</span>
   <span id="f000514">and from the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it was a rich material.</span>
   <span id="f000515">She spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a tone as though asking a question,</span>
   <span id="f000516">and when my companion answered in a gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly fell from her hand.</span>
   <span id="f000517">Colonel Stark went up to her,</span>
   <span id="f000518">whispered something in her ear,</span>
   <span id="f000519">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000520">pushing her back into the room from whence she had come,</span>
   <span id="f000521">he walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000522">’Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few minutes,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000523">throwing open another door.</span>
   <span id="f000524">It was a quiet,</span>
   <span id="f000525">little,</span>
   <span id="f000526">plainly furnished room,</span>
   <span id="f000527">with a round table in the centre,</span>
   <span id="f000528">on which several German books were scattered.</span>
   <span id="f000529">Colonel Stark laid down the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside the door.</span>
   <span id="f000530">’I shall not keep you waiting an instant,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000531">and vanished into the darkness.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000532">I glanced at the books upon the table,</span>
   <span id="f000533">and in spite of my ignorance of German I could see that two of them were treatises on science,</span>
   <span id="f000534">the others being volumes of poetry.</span>
   <span id="f000535">Then I walked across to the window,</span>
   <span id="f000536">hoping that I might catch some glimpse of the country-side,</span>
   <span id="f000537">but an oak shutter,</span>
   <span id="f000538">heavily barred,</span>
   <span id="f000539">was folded across it.</span>
   <span id="f000540">It was a wonderfully silent house.</span>
   <span id="f000541">There was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000542">but otherwise everything was deadly still.</span>
   <span id="f000543">A vague feeling of uneasiness began to steal over me.</span>
   <span id="f000544">Who were these German people,</span>
   <span id="f000545">and what were they doing living in this strange,</span>
   <span id="f000546">out-of-the-way place?</span>
   <span id="f000547">And where was the place?</span>
   <span id="f000548">I was ten miles or so from Eyford,</span>
   <span id="f000549">that was all I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000550">but whether north,</span>
   <span id="f000551">south,</span>
   <span id="f000552">east,</span>
   <span id="f000553">or west I had no idea.</span>
   <span id="f000554">For that matter,</span>
   <span id="f000555">Reading,</span>
   <span id="f000556">and possibly other large towns,</span>
   <span id="f000557">were within that radius,</span>
   <span id="f000558">so the place might not be so secluded,</span>
   <span id="f000559">after all.</span>
   <span id="f000560">Yet it was quite certain,</span>
   <span id="f000561">from the absolute stillness,</span>
   <span id="f000562">that we were in the country.</span>
   <span id="f000563">I paced up and down the room,</span>
   <span id="f000564">humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000565">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000566">without any preliminary sound in the midst of the utter stillness,</span>
   <span id="f000567">the door of my room swung slowly open.</span>
   <span id="f000568">The woman was standing in the aperture,</span>
   <span id="f000569">the darkness of the hall behind her,</span>
   <span id="f000570">the yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face.</span>
   <span id="f000571">I could see at a glance that she was sick with fear,</span>
   <span id="f000572">and the sight sent a chill to my own heart.</span>
   <span id="f000573">She held up one shaking finger to warn me to be silent,</span>
   <span id="f000574">and she shot a few whispered words of broken English at me,</span>
   <span id="f000575">her eyes glancing back,</span>
   <span id="f000576">like those of a frightened horse,</span>
   <span id="f000577">into the gloom behind her.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000578">’I would go,’ said she,</span>
   <span id="f000579">trying hard,</span>
   <span id="f000580">as it seemed to me,</span>
   <span id="f000581">to speak calmly;</span>
   <span id="f000582">’I would go.</span>
   <span id="f000583">I should not stay here.</span>
   <span id="f000584">There is no good for you to do.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000585">’But,</span>
   <span id="f000586">madam,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000587">’I have not yet done what I came for.</span>
   <span id="f000588">I cannot possibly leave until I have seen the machine.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000589">’It is not worth your while to wait,’ she went on.</span>
   <span id="f000590">’You can pass through the door;</span>
   <span id="f000591">no one hinders.’ And then,</span>
   <span id="f000592">seeing that I smiled and shook my head,</span>
   <span id="f000593">she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step forward,</span>
   <span id="f000594">with her hands wrung together.</span>
   <span id="f000595">’For the love of Heaven!’ she whispered,</span>
   <span id="f000596">’get away from here before it is too late!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000597">But I am somewhat headstrong by nature,</span>
   <span id="f000598">and the more ready to engage in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way.</span>
   <span id="f000599">I thought of my fifty-guinea fee,</span>
   <span id="f000600">of my wearisome journey,</span>
   <span id="f000601">and of the unpleasant night which seemed to be before me.</span>
   <span id="f000602">Was it all to go for nothing?</span>
   <span id="f000603">Why should I slink away without having carried out my commission,</span>
   <span id="f000604">and without the payment which was my due?</span>
   <span id="f000605">This woman might,</span>
   <span id="f000606">for all I knew,</span>
   <span id="f000607">be a monomaniac.</span>
   <span id="f000608">With a stout bearing,</span>
   <span id="f000609">therefore,</span>
   <span id="f000610">though her manner had shaken me more than I cared to confess,</span>
   <span id="f000611">I still shook my head and declared my intention of remaining where I was.</span>
   <span id="f000612">She was about to renew her entreaties when a door slammed overhead,</span>
   <span id="f000613">and the sound of several footsteps was heard upon the stairs.</span>
   <span id="f000614">She listened for an instant,</span>
   <span id="f000615">threw up her hands with a despairing gesture,</span>
   <span id="f000616">and vanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she had come.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000617">The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man with a chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin,</span>
   <span id="f000618">who was introduced to me as Mr.&#160;Ferguson.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000619">’This is my secretary and manager,’ said the colonel.</span>
   <span id="f000620">’By the way,</span>
   <span id="f000621">I was under the impression that I left this door shut just now.</span>
   <span id="f000622">I fear that you have felt the draught.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000623">’On the contrary,’ said I,</span>
   <span id="f000624">’I opened the door myself because I felt the room to be a little close.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000625">He shot one of his suspicious looks at me.</span>
   <span id="f000626">’Perhaps we had better proceed to business,</span>
   <span id="f000627">then,’ said he.</span>
   <span id="f000628">’Mr.&#160;Ferguson and I will take you up to see the machine.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000629">’I had better put my hat on,</span>
   <span id="f000630">I suppose.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000631">’Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000632">no,</span>
   <span id="f000633">it is in the house.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000634">’What,</span>
   <span id="f000635">you dig fuller’s-earth in the house?’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000636">’No,</span>
   <span id="f000637">no.</span>
   <span id="f000638">This is only where we compress it.</span>
   <span id="f000639">But never mind that.</span>
   <span id="f000640">All we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is wrong with it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000641">We went upstairs together,</span>
   <span id="f000642">the colonel first with the lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000643">the fat manager and I behind him.</span>
   <span id="f000644">It was a labyrinth of an old house,</span>
   <span id="f000645">with corridors,</span>
   <span id="f000646">passages,</span>
   <span id="f000647">narrow winding staircases,</span>
   <span id="f000648">and little low doors,</span>
   <span id="f000649">the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had crossed them.</span>
   <span id="f000650">There were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above the ground floor,</span>
   <span id="f000651">while the plaster was peeling off the walls,</span>
   <span id="f000652">and the damp was breaking through in green,</span>
   <span id="f000653">unhealthy blotches.</span>
   <span id="f000654">I tried to put on as unconcerned an air as possible,</span>
   <span id="f000655">but I had not forgotten the warnings of the lady,</span>
   <span id="f000656">even though I disregarded them,</span>
   <span id="f000657">and I kept a keen eye upon my two companions.</span>
   <span id="f000658">Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent man,</span>
   <span id="f000659">but I could see from the little that he said that he was at least a fellow-countryman.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000660">Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door,</span>
   <span id="f000661">which he unlocked.</span>
   <span id="f000662">Within was a small,</span>
   <span id="f000663">square room,</span>
   <span id="f000664">in which the three of us could hardly get at one time.</span>
   <span id="f000665">Ferguson remained outside,</span>
   <span id="f000666">and the colonel ushered me in.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000667">’We are now,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000668">’actually within the hydraulic press,</span>
   <span id="f000669">and it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn it on.</span>
   <span id="f000670">The ceiling of this small chamber is really the end of the descending piston,</span>
   <span id="f000671">and it comes down with the force of many tons upon this metal floor.</span>
   <span id="f000672">There are small lateral columns of water outside which receive the force,</span>
   <span id="f000673">and which transmit and multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you.</span>
   <span id="f000674">The machine goes readily enough,</span>
   <span id="f000675">but there is some stiffness in the working of it,</span>
   <span id="f000676">and it has lost a little of its force.</span>
   <span id="f000677">Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to show us how we can set it right.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000678">I took the lamp from him,</span>
   <span id="f000679">and I examined the machine very thoroughly.</span>
   <span id="f000680">It was indeed a gigantic one,</span>
   <span id="f000681">and capable of exercising enormous pressure.</span>
   <span id="f000682">When I passed outside,</span>
   <span id="f000683">however,</span>
   <span id="f000684">and pressed down the levers which controlled it,</span>
   <span id="f000685">I knew at once by the whishing sound that there was a slight leakage,</span>
   <span id="f000686">which allowed a regurgitation of water through one of the side cylinders.</span>
   <span id="f000687">An examination showed that one of the india-rubber bands which was round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to fill the socket along which it worked.</span>
   <span id="f000688">This was clearly the cause of the loss of power,</span>
   <span id="f000689">and I pointed it out to my companions,</span>
   <span id="f000690">who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right.</span>
   <span id="f000691">When I had made it clear to them,</span>
   <span id="f000692">I returned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity.</span>
   <span id="f000693">It was obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller’s-earth was the merest fabrication,</span>
   <span id="f000694">for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose.</span>
   <span id="f000695">The walls were of wood,</span>
   <span id="f000696">but the floor consisted of a large iron trough,</span>
   <span id="f000697">and when I came to examine it I could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it.</span>
   <span id="f000698">I had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of the colonel looking down at me.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000699">’What are you doing there?’ he asked.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000700">I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as that which he had told me.</span>
   <span id="f000701">’I was admiring your fuller’s-earth,’ said I;</span>
   <span id="f000702">’I think that I should be better able to advise you as to your machine if I knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000703">The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of my speech.</span>
   <span id="f000704">His face set hard,</span>
   <span id="f000705">and a baleful light sprang up in his grey eyes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000706">’Very well,’ said he,</span>
   <span id="f000707">’you shall know all about the machine.’ He took a step backward,</span>
   <span id="f000708">slammed the little door,</span>
   <span id="f000709">and turned the key in the lock.</span>
   <span id="f000710">I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle,</span>
   <span id="f000711">but it was quite secure,</span>
   <span id="f000712">and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves.</span>
   <span id="f000713">’Hullo!’ I yelled.</span>
   <span id="f000714">’Hullo!</span>
   <span id="f000715">Colonel!</span>
   <span id="f000716">Let me out!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000717">And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart into my mouth.</span>
   <span id="f000718">It was the clank of the levers and the swish of the leaking cylinder.</span>
   <span id="f000719">He had set the engine at work.</span>
   <span id="f000720">The lamp still stood upon the floor where I had placed it when examining the trough.</span>
   <span id="f000721">By its light I saw that the black ceiling was coming down upon me,</span>
   <span id="f000722">slowly,</span>
   <span id="f000723">jerkily,</span>
   <span id="f000724">but,</span>
   <span id="f000725">as none knew better than myself,</span>
   <span id="f000726">with a force which must within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp.</span>
   <span id="f000727">I threw myself,</span>
   <span id="f000728">screaming,</span>
   <span id="f000729">against the door,</span>
   <span id="f000730">and dragged with my nails at the lock.</span>
   <span id="f000731">I implored the colonel to let me out,</span>
   <span id="f000732">but the remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my cries.</span>
   <span id="f000733">The ceiling was only a foot or two above my head,</span>
   <span id="f000734">and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard,</span>
   <span id="f000735">rough surface.</span>
   <span id="f000736">Then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which I met it.</span>
   <span id="f000737">If I lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine,</span>
   <span id="f000738">and I shuddered to think of that dreadful snap.</span>
   <span id="f000739">Easier the other way,</span>
   <span id="f000740">perhaps;</span>
   <span id="f000741">and yet,</span>
   <span id="f000742">had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?</span>
   <span id="f000743">Already I was unable to stand erect,</span>
   <span id="f000744">when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000745">I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron,</span>
   <span id="f000746">the walls were of wood.</span>
   <span id="f000747">As I gave a last hurried glance around,</span>
   <span id="f000748">I saw a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards,</span>
   <span id="f000749">which broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward.</span>
   <span id="f000750">For an instant I could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death.</span>
   <span id="f000751">The next instant I threw myself through,</span>
   <span id="f000752">and lay half-fainting upon the other side.</span>
   <span id="f000753">The panel had closed again behind me,</span>
   <span id="f000754">but the crash of the lamp,</span>
   <span id="f000755">and a few moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal,</span>
   <span id="f000756">told me how narrow had been my escape.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000757">I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist,</span>
   <span id="f000758">and I found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor,</span>
   <span id="f000759">while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand,</span>
   <span id="f000760">while she held a candle in her right.</span>
   <span id="f000761">It was the same good friend whose warning I had so foolishly rejected.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000762">’Come!</span>
   <span id="f000763">come!’ she cried breathlessly.</span>
   <span id="f000764">’They will be here in a moment.</span>
   <span id="f000765">They will see that you are not there.</span>
   <span id="f000766">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000767">do not waste the so-precious time,</span>
   <span id="f000768">but come!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000769">This time,</span>
   <span id="f000770">at least,</span>
   <span id="f000771">I did not scorn her advice.</span>
   <span id="f000772">I staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair.</span>
   <span id="f000773">The latter led to another broad passage,</span>
   <span id="f000774">and just as we reached it we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices,</span>
   <span id="f000775">one answering the other from the floor on which we were and from the one beneath.</span>
   <span id="f000776">My guide stopped and looked about her like one who is at her wit’s end.</span>
   <span id="f000777">Then she threw open a door which led into a bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000778">through the window of which the moon was shining brightly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000779">’It is your only chance,’ said she.</span>
   <span id="f000780">’It is high,</span>
   <span id="f000781">but it may be that you can jump it.’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000782">As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the passage,</span>
   <span id="f000783">and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark rushing forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher’s cleaver in the other.</span>
   <span id="f000784">I rushed across the bedroom,</span>
   <span id="f000785">flung open the window,</span>
   <span id="f000786">and looked out.</span>
   <span id="f000787">How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight,</span>
   <span id="f000788">and it could not be more than thirty feet down.</span>
   <span id="f000789">I clambered out upon the sill,</span>
   <span id="f000790">but I hesitated to jump until I should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who pursued me.</span>
   <span id="f000791">If she were ill-used,</span>
   <span id="f000792">then at any risks I was determined to go back to her assistance.</span>
   <span id="f000793">The thought had hardly flashed through my mind before he was at the door,</span>
   <span id="f000794">pushing his way past her;</span>
   <span id="f000795">but she threw her arms round him and tried to hold him back.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000796">’Fritz!</span>
   <span id="f000797">Fritz!’ she cried in English,</span>
   <span id="f000798">’remember your promise after the last time.</span>
   <span id="f000799">You said it should not be again.</span>
   <span id="f000800">He will be silent!</span>
   <span id="f000801">Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000802">he will be silent!’</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000803">’You are mad,</span>
   <span id="f000804">Elise!’ he shouted,</span>
   <span id="f000805">struggling to break away from her.</span>
   <span id="f000806">’You will be the ruin of us.</span>
   <span id="f000807">He has seen too much.</span>
   <span id="f000808">Let me pass,</span>
   <span id="f000809">I say!’ He dashed her to one side,</span>
   <span id="f000810">and,</span>
   <span id="f000811">rushing to the window,</span>
   <span id="f000812">cut at me with his heavy weapon.</span>
   <span id="f000813">I had let myself go,</span>
   <span id="f000814">and was hanging by the hands to the sill,</span>
   <span id="f000815">when his blow fell.</span>
   <span id="f000816">I was conscious of a dull pain,</span>
   <span id="f000817">my grip loosened,</span>
   <span id="f000818">and I fell into the garden below.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000819">I was shaken but not hurt by the fall;</span>
   <span id="f000820">so I picked myself up and rushed off among the bushes as hard as I could run,</span>
   <span id="f000821">for I understood that I was far from being out of danger yet.</span>
   <span id="f000822">Suddenly,</span>
   <span id="f000823">however,</span>
   <span id="f000824">as I ran,</span>
   <span id="f000825">a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me.</span>
   <span id="f000826">I glanced down at my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000827">which was throbbing painfully,</span>
   <span id="f000828">and then,</span>
   <span id="f000829">for the first time,</span>
   <span id="f000830">saw that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my wound.</span>
   <span id="f000831">I endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it,</span>
   <span id="f000832">but there came a sudden buzzing in my ears,</span>
   <span id="f000833">and next moment I fell in a dead faint among the rose-bushes.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000834">How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell.</span>
   <span id="f000835">It must have been a very long time,</span>
   <span id="f000836">for the moon had sunk,</span>
   <span id="f000837">and a bright morning was breaking when I came to myself.</span>
   <span id="f000838">My clothes were all sodden with dew,</span>
   <span id="f000839">and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb.</span>
   <span id="f000840">The smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of my night’s adventure,</span>
   <span id="f000841">and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I might hardly yet be safe from my pursuers.</span>
   <span id="f000842">But to my astonishment,</span>
   <span id="f000843">when I came to look round me,</span>
   <span id="f000844">neither house nor garden were to be seen.</span>
   <span id="f000845">I had been lying in an angle of the hedge close by the highroad,</span>
   <span id="f000846">and just a little lower down was a long building,</span>
   <span id="f000847">which proved,</span>
   <span id="f000848">upon my approaching it,</span>
   <span id="f000849">to be the very station at which I had arrived upon the previous night.</span>
   <span id="f000850">Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand,</span>
   <span id="f000851">all that had passed during those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000852">Half dazed,</span>
   <span id="f000853">I went into the station and asked about the morning train.</span>
   <span id="f000854">There would be one to Reading in less than an hour.</span>
   <span id="f000855">The same porter was on duty,</span>
   <span id="f000856">I found,</span>
   <span id="f000857">as had been there when I arrived.</span>
   <span id="f000858">I inquired of him whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark.</span>
   <span id="f000859">The name was strange to him.</span>
   <span id="f000860">Had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me?</span>
   <span id="f000861">No,</span>
   <span id="f000862">he had not.</span>
   <span id="f000863">Was there a police-station anywhere near?</span>
   <span id="f000864">There was one about three miles off.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000865">“It was too far for me to go,</span>
   <span id="f000866">weak and ill as I was.</span>
   <span id="f000867">I determined to wait until I got back to town before telling my story to the police.</span>
   <span id="f000868">It was a little past six when I arrived,</span>
   <span id="f000869">so I went first to have my wound dressed,</span>
   <span id="f000870">and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here.</span>
   <span id="f000871">I put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000872">We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative.</span>
   <span id="f000873">Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his cuttings.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000874">“Here is an advertisement which will interest you,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000875">“It appeared in all the papers about a year ago.</span>
   <span id="f000876">Listen to this:</span>
   <span id="f000877">’Lost,</span>
   <span id="f000878">on the 9th inst.,</span>
   <span id="f000879">Mr.&#160;Jeremiah Hayling,</span>
   <span id="f000880">aged twenty-six,</span>
   <span id="f000881">a hydraulic engineer.</span>
   <span id="f000882">Left his lodgings at ten o’clock at night,</span>
   <span id="f000883">and has not been heard of since.</span>
   <span id="f000884">Was dressed in,’ etc.,</span>
   <span id="f000885">etc.</span>
   <span id="f000886">Ha!</span>
   <span id="f000887">That represents the last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled,</span>
   <span id="f000888">I fancy.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000889">“Good heavens!” cried my patient.</span>
   <span id="f000890">“Then that explains what the girl said.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000891">“Undoubtedly.</span>
   <span id="f000892">It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and desperate man,</span>
   <span id="f000893">who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand in the way of his little game,</span>
   <span id="f000894">like those out-and-out pirates who will leave no survivor from a captured ship.</span>
   <span id="f000895">Well,</span>
   <span id="f000896">every moment now is precious,</span>
   <span id="f000897">so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to Scotland Yard at once as a preliminary to starting for Eyford.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000898">Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together,</span>
   <span id="f000899">bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village.</span>
   <span id="f000900">There were Sherlock Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f000901">the hydraulic engineer,</span>
   <span id="f000902">Inspector Bradstreet,</span>
   <span id="f000903">of Scotland Yard,</span>
   <span id="f000904">a plain-clothes man,</span>
   <span id="f000905">and myself.</span>
   <span id="f000906">Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with Eyford for its centre.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000907">“There you are,” said he.</span>
   <span id="f000908">“That circle is drawn at a radius of ten miles from the village.</span>
   <span id="f000909">The place we want must be somewhere near that line.</span>
   <span id="f000910">You said ten miles,</span>
   <span id="f000911">I think,</span>
   <span id="f000912">sir.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000913">“It was an hour’s good drive.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000914">“And you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000915">“They must have done so.</span>
   <span id="f000916">I have a confused memory,</span>
   <span id="f000917">too,</span>
   <span id="f000918">of having been lifted and conveyed somewhere.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000919">“What I cannot understand,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000920">“is why they should have spared you when they found you lying fainting in the garden.</span>
   <span id="f000921">Perhaps the villain was softened by the woman’s entreaties.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000922">“I hardly think that likely.</span>
   <span id="f000923">I never saw a more inexorable face in my life.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000924">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000925">we shall soon clear up all that,” said Bradstreet.</span>
   <span id="f000926">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f000927">I have drawn my circle,</span>
   <span id="f000928">and I only wish I knew at what point upon it the folk that we are in search of are to be found.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000929">“I think I could lay my finger on it,” said Holmes quietly.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000930">“Really,</span>
   <span id="f000931">now!” cried the inspector,</span>
   <span id="f000932">“you have formed your opinion!</span>
   <span id="f000933">Come,</span>
   <span id="f000934">now,</span>
   <span id="f000935">we shall see who agrees with you.</span>
   <span id="f000936">I say it is south,</span>
   <span id="f000937">for the country is more deserted there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000938">“And I say east,” said my patient.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000939">“I am for west,” remarked the plain-clothes man.</span>
   <span id="f000940">“There are several quiet little villages up there.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000941">“And I am for north,” said I,</span>
   <span id="f000942">“because there are no hills there,</span>
   <span id="f000943">and our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up any.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000944">“Come,” cried the inspector,</span>
   <span id="f000945">laughing;</span>
   <span id="f000946">“it’s a very pretty diversity of opinion.</span>
   <span id="f000947">We have boxed the compass among us.</span>
   <span id="f000948">Who do you give your casting vote to?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000949">“You are all wrong.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000950">“But we can’t all be.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000951">“Oh,</span>
   <span id="f000952">yes,</span>
   <span id="f000953">you can.</span>
   <span id="f000954">This is my point.” He placed his finger in the centre of the circle.</span>
   <span id="f000955">“This is where we shall find them.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000956">“But the twelve-mile drive?” gasped Hatherley.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000957">“Six out and six back.</span>
   <span id="f000958">Nothing simpler.</span>
   <span id="f000959">You say yourself that the horse was fresh and glossy when you got in.</span>
   <span id="f000960">How could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000961">“Indeed,</span>
   <span id="f000962">it is a likely ruse enough,” observed Bradstreet thoughtfully.</span>
   <span id="f000963">“Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000964">“None at all,” said Holmes.</span>
   <span id="f000965">“They are coiners on a large scale,</span>
   <span id="f000966">and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of silver.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000967">“We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work,” said the inspector.</span>
   <span id="f000968">“They have been turning out half-crowns by the thousand.</span>
   <span id="f000969">We even traced them as far as Reading,</span>
   <span id="f000970">but could get no farther,</span>
   <span id="f000971">for they had covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old hands.</span>
   <span id="f000972">But now,</span>
   <span id="f000973">thanks to this lucky chance,</span>
   <span id="f000974">I think that we have got them right enough.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000975">But the inspector was mistaken,</span>
   <span id="f000976">for those criminals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice.</span>
   <span id="f000977">As we rolled into Eyford Station we saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed up from behind a small clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich feather over the landscape.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000978">“A house on fire?” asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000979">“Yes,</span>
   <span id="f000980">sir!” said the station-master.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000981">“When did it break out?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000982">“I hear that it was during the night,</span>
   <span id="f000983">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000984">but it has got worse,</span>
   <span id="f000985">and the whole place is in a blaze.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000986">“Whose house is it?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000987">“Dr.&#160;Becher’s.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000988">“Tell me,” broke in the engineer,</span>
   <span id="f000989">“is Dr.&#160;Becher a German,</span>
   <span id="f000990">very thin,</span>
   <span id="f000991">with a long,</span>
   <span id="f000992">sharp nose?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f000993">The station-master laughed heartily.</span>
   <span id="f000994">“No,</span>
   <span id="f000995">sir,</span>
   <span id="f000996">Dr.&#160;Becher is an Englishman,</span>
   <span id="f000997">and there isn’t a man in the parish who has a better-lined waistcoat.</span>
   <span id="f000998">But he has a gentleman staying with him,</span>
   <span id="f000999">a patient,</span>
   <span id="f001000">as I understand,</span>
   <span id="f001001">who is a foreigner,</span>
   <span id="f001002">and he looks as if a little good Berkshire beef would do him no harm.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001003">The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all hastening in the direction of the fire.</span>
   <span id="f001004">The road topped a low hill,</span>
   <span id="f001005">and there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front of us,</span>
   <span id="f001006">spouting fire at every chink and window,</span>
   <span id="f001007">while in the garden in front three fire-engines were vainly striving to keep the flames under.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001008">“That’s it!” cried Hatherley,</span>
   <span id="f001009">in intense excitement.</span>
   <span id="f001010">“There is the gravel-drive,</span>
   <span id="f001011">and there are the rose-bushes where I lay.</span>
   <span id="f001012">That second window is the one that I jumped from.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001013">“Well,</span>
   <span id="f001014">at least,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001015">“you have had your revenge upon them.</span>
   <span id="f001016">There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which,</span>
   <span id="f001017">when it was crushed in the press,</span>
   <span id="f001018">set fire to the wooden walls,</span>
   <span id="f001019">though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time.</span>
   <span id="f001020">Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night,</span>
   <span id="f001021">though I very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now.”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001022">And Holmes’ fears came to be realised,</span>
   <span id="f001023">for from that day to this no word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman,</span>
   <span id="f001024">the sinister German,</span>
   <span id="f001025">or the morose Englishman.</span>
   <span id="f001026">Early that morning a peasant had met a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction of Reading,</span>
   <span id="f001027">but there all traces of the fugitives disappeared,</span>
   <span id="f001028">and even Holmes’ ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their whereabouts.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001029">The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which they had found within,</span>
   <span id="f001030">and still more so by discovering a newly severed human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor.</span>
   <span id="f001031">About sunset,</span>
   <span id="f001032">however,</span>
   <span id="f001033">their efforts were at last successful,</span>
   <span id="f001034">and they subdued the flames,</span>
   <span id="f001035">but not before the roof had fallen in,</span>
   <span id="f001036">and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that,</span>
   <span id="f001037">save some twisted cylinders and iron piping,</span>
   <span id="f001038">not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly.</span>
   <span id="f001039">Large masses of nickel and of tin were discovered stored in an out-house,</span>
   <span id="f001040">but no coins were to be found,</span>
   <span id="f001041">which may have explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have been already referred to.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001042">How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a mystery were it not for the soft mould,</span>
   <span id="f001043">which told us a very plain tale.</span>
   <span id="f001044">He had evidently been carried down by two persons,</span>
   <span id="f001045">one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones.</span>
   <span id="f001046">On the whole,</span>
   <span id="f001047">it was most probable that the silent Englishman,</span>
   <span id="f001048">being less bold or less murderous than his companion,</span>
   <span id="f001049">had assisted the woman to bear the unconscious man out of the way of danger.</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001050">“Well,” said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return once more to London,</span>
   <span id="f001051">“it has been a pretty business for me!</span>
   <span id="f001052">I have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee,</span>
   <span id="f001053">and what have I gained?”</span></p>
   <p><span id="f001054">“Experience,” said Holmes,</span>
   <span id="f001055">laughing.</span>
   <span id="f001056">“Indirectly it may be of value,</span>
   <span id="f001057">you know;</span>
   <span id="f001058">you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your existence.”</span></p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
   <p class="navBar">
    <a>[Previous]</a>
    <a href="playlist.xhtml#track01">[Contents]</a>
    <a href="#audio">[Top]</a>
    <a>[Next]</a>
   </p>
   <hr class="sepBar"/>
  </section>
 </body>
</html>

